risk factors 5 risk factors special note regarding forward-looking statements and analyst reports certain written and oral statements, other than purely historical information, including estimates, projections, statements relating to nike's business plans, objectives and expected operating results, and the assumptions upon which those statements are based, made or incorporated by reference from time to time by nike or its representatives in this report, other reports, filings with the securities and exchange commission, press releases, conferences, or otherwise, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended. forward-looking statements include, without limitation, any statement that may predict, forecast, indicate, or imply future results, performance, or achievements, and may contain the words believe, anticipate, expect, estimate, project, will be, will continue, will likely result, or words or phrases of similar meaning. forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties which may cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. the risks and uncertainties are detailed from time to time in reports filed by nike with the securities and exchange commission, including forms 8-k, 10-q, and 10-k, and include, among others, the following: international, national and local general economic and market conditions; the size and growth of the overall athletic footwear, apparel, and equipment markets; intense competition among designers, marketers, distributors and sellers of athletic footwear, apparel, and equipment for consumers and endorsers; demographic changes; changes in consumer preferences; popularity of particular designs, categories of products, and sports; seasonal and geographic demand for nike products; difficulties in anticipating or forecasting changes in consumer preferences, consumer demand for nike products, and the various market factors described above; difficulties in implementing, operating, and maintaining nike's increasingly complex information systems and controls, including, without limitation, the systems related to demand and supply planning, and inventory control; interruptions in data and information technology systems; data security; fluctuations and difficulty in forecasting operating results, including, without limitation, the fact that advance futures orders may not be indicative of future revenues due to changes in shipment timing, the changing mix of futures and at-once orders, and discounts, order cancellations and returns; the ability of nike to sustain, manage or forecast its growth and inventories; the size, timing and mix of purchases of nike's products; increases in the cost of materials, labor and energy used to manufacture products, new product development and introduction; the ability to secure and protect trademarks, patents, and other intellectual property; product performance and quality; customer service; adverse publicity; the loss of significant customers or suppliers; dependence on distributors and licensees; business disruptions; increased costs of freight and transportation to meet delivery deadlines; increases in borrowing costs due to any decline in our debt ratings; changes in business strategy or development plans; general risks associated with doing business outside the united states, including, without limitation, exchange rate fluctuations, import duties, tariffs, quotas, political and economic instability, and terrorism; changes in government regulations; the impact of, including business and legal developments relating to, climate change; natural disasters; liability and other claims asserted against nike; the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel; the effects of our decision to invest in or divest of businesses; and other factors referenced or incorporated by reference in this report and other reports. the risks included here are not exhaustive. other sections of this report may include additional factors which could adversely affect nike's business and financial performance. moreover, nike operates in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. new risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors, nor can it assess the impact of all such risk factors on nike's business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. investors should also be aware that while nike does, from time to time, communicate with securities analysts, it is against nike's policy to disclose to them any material non-public information or other confidential commercial information. accordingly, shareholders should not assume that nike agrees with any statement or report issued by any analyst irrespective of the content of the statement or report. furthermore, nike has a policy against issuing or confirming financial forecasts or projections issued by others. thus, to the extent that reports issued by securities analysts contain any projections, forecasts or opinions, such reports are not the responsibility of nike. our products face intense competition. nike is a consumer products company and the relative popularity of various sports and fitness activities and changing design trends affect the demand for our products. the athletic footwear, apparel, and equipment industry is highly competitive in the united states and on a worldwide basis. we compete internationally with a significant number of athletic and leisure footwear companies, athletic and leisure apparel companies, sports equipment companies, and large companies having diversified lines of athletic and leisure footwear, apparel, and equipment. we also compete with other companies for the production capacity of independent manufacturers that produce our products and for import quota capacity. our competitors' product offerings, technologies, marketing expenditures (including expenditures for advertising and endorsements), pricing, costs of production, and customer service are areas of intense competition. this, in addition to rapid changes in technology and consumer preferences in the markets for athletic and leisure footwear and apparel, and athletic equipment, constitute significant risk factors in our operations. if we do not adequately and timely anticipate and respond to our competitors, our costs may increase or the consumer demand for our products may decline significantly. failure to maintain our reputation and brand image could negatively impact our business. our iconic brands have worldwide recognition, and our success depends on our ability to maintain and enhance our brand image and reputation. maintaining, promoting and growing our brands will depend on our design and marketing efforts, including advertising and consumer campaigns, product innovation and product quality. our commitment to product innovation and quality and our continuing investment in design (including materials) and marketing may not have the desired impact on our brand image and reputation. we could be adversely impacted if we fail to achieve any of these objectives or if the reputation or image of any of our brands is tarnished or receives negative publicity. in addition, adverse publicity about regulatory or legal action against us could damage our reputation and brand image, undermine consumer confidence in us and reduce long-term demand for our products, even if the regulatory or legal action is unfounded or not material to our operations. in addition, our success in maintaining, extending and expanding our brand image depends on our ability to adapt to a rapidly changing media environment, including our increasing reliance on social media and online dissemination of advertising campaigns. negative posts or comments about us on social networking websites could seriously damage our reputation and brand image. if we do not maintain, extend and expand our brand image, then our product sales, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 5 table of contents if we are unable to anticipate consumer preferences and develop new products, we may not be able to maintain or increase our net revenues and profits. our success depends on our ability to identify, originate and define product trends as well as to anticipate, gauge and react to changing consumer demands in a timely manner. however, long lead times for many of our products may make it more difficult for us to respond rapidly to new or changing product trends or consumer preferences. all of our products are subject to changing consumer preferences that cannot be predicted with certainty. our new products may not receive consumer acceptance as consumer preferences could shift rapidly to different types of performance products or away from these types of products altogether, and our future success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and respond to these changes. if we fail to anticipate accurately and respond to trends and shifts in consumer preferences by adjusting the mix of existing product offerings, developing new products, designs, styles and categories, and influencing sports and fitness preferences through aggressive marketing, we could experience lower sales, excess inventories and lower profit margins, any of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. in addition, we market our products globally through a diverse spectrum of advertising and promotional programs and campaigns, including social media and online advertising. if we do not successfully market our products or if advertising and promotional costs increase, these factors could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. we rely on technical innovation and high quality products to compete in the market for our products. technical innovation and quality control in the design and manufacturing process of footwear, apparel, and athletic equipment is essential to the commercial success of our products. research and development plays a key role in technical innovation. we rely upon specialists in the fields of biomechanics, exercise physiology, engineering, industrial design and related fields, as well as research committees and advisory boards made up of athletes, coaches, trainers, equipment managers, orthopedists, podiatrists, and other experts to develop and test cutting edge performance products. while we strive to produce products that help to reduce injury, enhance athletic performance and maximize comfort, if we fail to introduce technical innovation in our products, consumer demand for our products could decline, and if we experience problems with the quality of our products, we may incur substantial expense to remedy the problems. failure to continue to obtain high quality endorsers of our products could harm our business. we establish relationships with professional athletes, sports teams and leagues to evaluate, promote, and establish product authenticity with consumers. if certain endorsers were to stop using our products contrary to their endorsement agreements, our business could be adversely affected. in addition, actions taken by athletes, teams or leagues associated with our products that harm the reputations of those athletes, teams or leagues, or negative posts or comments about our sports marketing endorsements on social networking websites, could also seriously harm our brand image with consumers and, as a result, could have an adverse effect on our sales and financial condition. in addition, poor performance by our endorsers, a failure to continue to correctly identify promising athletes to use and endorse our products, or a failure to enter into cost effective endorsement arrangements with prominent athletes and sports organizations could adversely affect our brand and result in decreased sales of our products. global capital and credit market conditions, and resulting declines in consumer confidence and spending, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. the uncertain state of the global economy continues to impact businesses around the world. continuing volatility and disruption in the global capital and credit markets have led to fluctuations in the availability of business credit and capital liquidity, a contraction of consumer credit, business failures, higher unemployment, and declines in consumer confidence and spending in many parts of the world. if global economic and financial market conditions deteriorate or remain weak for an extended period of time, the following factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition: slower consumer spending may result in reduced demand for our products, reduced orders from retailers for our products, order cancellations, lower revenues, higher discounts, increased inventories, and lower gross margins. we may be unable to find suitable investments that are safe, liquid, and provide a reasonable return. this could result in lower interest income or longer investment horizons. disruptions to capital markets or the banking system may also impair the value of investments or bank deposits we currently consider safe or liquid. in the future, we may be unable to access financing in the credit and capital markets at reasonable rates in the event we find it desirable to do so. the failure of financial institution counterparties to honor their obligations to us under credit and derivative instruments could jeopardize our ability to rely on and benefit from those instruments. our ability to replace those instruments on the same or similar terms may be limited under poor market conditions. we conduct transactions in various currencies, which increase our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar. continued volatility in the markets and exchange rates for foreign currencies and contracts in foreign currencies could have a significant impact on our reported financial results and condition. continued volatility and availability in the markets and prices for commodities and raw materials we use in our products and in our supply chain (such as cotton or petroleum derivatives) could have a material adverse effect on our costs, gross margins, and profitability. if retailers of our products experience declining revenues, or retailers experience difficulty obtaining financing in the capital and credit markets to purchase our products, this could result in reduced orders for our products, order cancellations, inability of retailers to timely meet their payment obligations to us, extended payment terms, higher accounts receivable, reduced cash flows, greater expense associated with collection efforts, and increased bad debt expense. if retailers of our products experience severe financial difficulty, some may become insolvent and cease business operations, which could reduce the availability of our products to consumers. if contract manufacturers of our products or other participants in our supply chain experience difficulty obtaining financing in the capital and credit markets to purchase raw materials or to finance general working capital needs, it may result in delays or non-delivery of shipments of our products. 6 table of contents our business is affected by seasonality, which could result in fluctuations in our operating results and stock price. we experience moderate fluctuations in aggregate sales volume during the year. historically, revenues in the first and fourth fiscal quarters have slightly exceeded those in the second and third fiscal quarters. however, the mix of product sales may vary considerably from time to time as a result of changes in seasonal and geographic demand for particular types of footwear, apparel and equipment. in addition, our customers may cancel orders, change delivery schedules or change the mix of products ordered with minimal notice. as a result, we may not be able to accurately predict our quarterly sales. accordingly, our results of operations are likely to fluctuate significantly from period to period. this seasonality, along with other factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions, changes in consumer preferences, weather conditions, availability of import quotas and currency exchange rate fluctuations, could adversely affect our business and cause our results of operations to fluctuate. our operating margins are also sensitive to a number of factors that are beyond our control, including manufacturing and transportation costs, shifts in product sales mix, geographic sales trends, and currency exchange rate fluctuations, all of which we expect to continue. results of operations in any period should not be considered indicative of the results to be expected for any future period. futures orders may not be an accurate indication of our future revenues. we make substantial use of our futures ordering program, which allows retailers to order five to six months in advance of delivery with the commitment that their orders will be delivered within a set period of time at a fixed price. our futures ordering program allows us to minimize the amount of products we hold in inventory, purchasing costs, the time necessary to fill customer orders, and the risk of non-delivery. we report changes in futures orders in our periodic financial reports. although we believe futures orders are an important indicator of our future revenues, reported futures orders are not necessarily indicative of our expectation of changes in revenues for any future period. this is because the mix of orders can shift between futures and at-once orders. in addition, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, order cancellations, shipping timing, returns, and discounts can cause differences in the comparisons between futures orders and actual revenues. moreover, a significant portion of our revenue is not derived from futures orders, including at-once and close-out sales of nike brand footwear and apparel, sales of nike brand equipment, sales from our direct to consumer operations, and sales from our other businesses. our futures ordering program does not prevent excess inventories or inventory shortages, which could result in decreased operating margins and harm to our business. we purchase products from manufacturers outside of our futures ordering program and in advance of customer orders, which we hold in inventory and resell to customers. there is a risk we may be unable to sell excess products ordered from manufacturers. inventory levels in excess of customer demand may result in inventory write-downs, and the sale of excess inventory at discounted prices could significantly impair our brand image and have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. conversely, if we underestimate consumer demand for our products or if our manufacturers fail to supply products we require at the time we need them, we may experience inventory shortages. inventory shortages might delay shipments to customers, negatively impact retailer and distributor relationships, and diminish brand loyalty. the difficulty in forecasting demand also makes it difficult to estimate our future results of operations and financial condition from period to period. a failure to accurately predict the level of demand for our products could adversely affect our net revenues and net income, and we are unlikely to forecast such effects with any certainty in advance. we may be adversely affected by the financial health of our retailers. we extend credit to our customers based on an assessment of a customer's financial condition, generally without requiring collateral. to assist in the scheduling of production and the shipping of seasonal products, we offer customers the ability to place orders five to six months ahead of delivery under our futures ordering program. these advance orders may be canceled, and the risk of cancellation may increase when dealing with financially ailing retailers or retailers struggling with economic uncertainty. in the past, some customers have experienced financial difficulties, which have had an adverse effect on our business. when the retail economy weakens, retailers may be more cautious with orders. a slowing economy in our key markets could adversely affect the financial health of our customers, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. in addition, product sales are dependent in part on high quality merchandising and an appealing store environment to attract consumers, which requires continuing investments by retailers. retailers who experience financial difficulties may fail to make such investments or delay them, resulting in lower sales and orders for our products. consolidation of retailers or concentration of retail market share among a few retailers may increase and concentrate our credit risk, and impair our ability to sell our products. the athletic footwear, apparel, and equipment retail markets in some countries are dominated by a few large athletic footwear, apparel, and equipment retailers with many stores. these retailers have in the past increased their market share and may continue to do so in the future by expanding through acquisitions and construction of additional stores. these situations concentrate our credit risk with a relatively small number of retailers, and, if any of these retailers were to experience a shortage of liquidity, it would increase the risk that their outstanding payables to us may not be paid. in addition, increasing market share concentration among one or a few retailers in a particular country or region increases the risk that if any one of them substantially reduces their purchases of our products, we may be unable to find a sufficient number of other retail outlets for our products to sustain the same level of sales and revenues. our direct to consumer operations have required and will continue to require a substantial investment and commitment of resources and are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties. our direct to consumer locations have required substantial fixed investment in equipment and leasehold improvements, information systems, inventory and personnel. we have entered into substantial operating lease commitments for retail space. certain stores have been designed and built to serve as high-profile venues to promote brand awareness and marketing activities. because of their unique design elements, locations and size, these stores require substantially more investment than certain of our other stores. due to the high fixed-cost structure associated with our direct to consumer operations, a decline in sales or the closure or poor performance of individual or multiple stores could result in significant lease termination costs, write-offs of equipment and leasehold improvements, and employee-related costs. many factors unique to retail operations, some of which are beyond the company's control, pose risks and uncertainties. risks include, but are not limited to: credit card fraud; mismanagement of existing retail channel partners; and inability to manage costs associated with store construction and operation. risks specific to our e-commerce business also include diversion of sales from our brick and mortar stores, difficulty in recreating 7 table of contents the in-store experience through direct channels and liability for online content. our failure to successfully respond to these risks might adversely affect sales in our e-commerce business, as well as damage our reputation and brands. failure to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights could adversely affect our business. we utilize trademarks on nearly all of our products and believe that having distinctive marks that are readily identifiable is an important factor in creating a market for our goods, in identifying us, and in distinguishing our goods from the goods of others. we consider our nike and swoosh design trademarks to be among our most valuable assets and we have registered these trademarks in almost 170 jurisdictions. in addition, we own many other trademarks that we utilize in marketing our products. in addition, we own many other trademarks that we utilize on or in the marketing of our products. we believe that our trademarks, patents, trade secrets and other intellectual property rights are important to our brand, our success, and our competitive position. we periodically discover products that are counterfeit reproductions of our products or that otherwise infringe on our intellectual property rights. if we are unsuccessful in challenging a party's products on the basis of trade secret misappropriation or trademark, copyright, design patent, utility patent, or other intellectual property infringement, continued sales of these products could adversely affect our sales and our brand and result in the shift of consumer preference away from our products. the actions we take to establish and protect trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, patents, and other intellectual property rights may not be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as violations of proprietary rights. we may be subject to liability if third parties successfully claim that we infringe on their trademarks, copyrights, patents, or other intellectual property rights. defending infringement claims could be expensive and time-consuming and might result in our entering into costly license agreements. we also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development, use, importation and/or sale of certain products. we take various actions to prevent confidential information from unauthorized use and/or disclosure. such actions include contractual measures such as entering into non-disclosure agreements and providing confidential information awareness training. our controls and efforts to prevent unauthorized use and/or disclosure of confidential information might not always be effective. confidential information that is related to business strategy, new technologies, mergers and acquisitions, unpublished financial results or personal data could be prematurely or inadvertently used and/or disclosed resulting in a loss of reputation, a decline in our stock price, a negative impact on our market position, and could lead to damages, fines, penalties, or injunctions. in addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect or allow enforcement of intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. we may face significant expenses and liability in connection with the protection of our intellectual property rights outside the united states, and if we are unable to successfully protect our rights or resolve intellectual property conflicts with others, our business or financial condition may be adversely affected. we are subject to periodic litigation and other regulatory proceedings, which could result in unexpected expense of time and resources. from time to time we are called upon to defend ourselves against lawsuits and regulatory actions relating to our business. due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation and regulatory proceedings, we cannot accurately predict the ultimate outcome of any such proceedings. an unfavorable outcome could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, any significant litigation in the future, regardless of its merits, could divert management's attention from our operations and result in substantial legal fees. failure of our contractors or our licensees' contractors to comply with our code of conduct, local laws, and other standards could harm our business. we work with hundreds of contractors outside of the united states to manufacture our products, and we also have license agreements that permit unaffiliated parties to manufacture or contract for the manufacture of products using our trademarks. we impose, and require the contractors that directly manufacture our products and our licensees the contract with manufacturers to make products bearing our trademarks, a code of conduct and other environmental, health, and safety standards for the benefit of workers. we also require these contractors to comply with applicable standards for product safety. notwithstanding their contractual obligations, from time to time contractors may not comply with such standards or applicable local law or our licensees may fail to enforce such standards or applicable local law on their contractors. significant or continuing noncompliance with such standards and laws by one or more contractors could harm our reputation or result in a product recall and, as a result, could have an adverse effect on our sales and financial condition. our international operations involve inherent risks which could result in harm to our business. virtually all of our athletic footwear and apparel is manufactured outside of the united states, and the majority of our products are sold outside of the united states. accordingly, we are subject to the risks generally associated with global trade and doing business abroad, which include foreign laws and regulations, varying consumer preferences across geographic regions, political unrest, disruptions or delays in cross-border shipments, and changes in economic conditions in countries in which we manufacture or sell products. in addition, disease outbreaks, terrorist acts and military conflict have increased the risks of doing business abroad. these factors, among others, could affect our ability to manufacture products or procure materials, our ability to import products, our ability to sell products in international markets, and our cost of doing business. if any of these or other factors make the conduct of business in a particular country undesirable or impractical, our business could be adversely affected. in addition, many of our imported products are subject to duties, tariffs, or quotas that affect the cost and quantity of various types of goods imported into the united states and other countries. any country in which our products are produced or sold may eliminate, adjust or impose new quotas, duties, tariffs, safeguard measures, anti-dumping duties, cargo restrictions to prevent terrorism, restrictions on the transfer of currency, climate change legislation, product safety regulations or other charges or restrictions, any of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. changes in tax laws and unanticipated tax liabilities could adversely affect our effective income tax rate and profitability. we are subject to income taxes in the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. increases in income tax rates could reduce our after-tax income from affected jurisdictions. we earn a substantial portion of our income in foreign countries. if our capital or financing needs in the united states require us to repatriate earnings from foreign jurisdictions above our current levels, our effective income tax rates for the affected periods could be negatively impacted. current economic and political conditions make tax rules in any jurisdiction, including the united states, subject to 8 table of contents significant change. there have been proposals to reform u.s. tax laws that could significantly impact how u.s. multinational corporations are taxed on foreign earnings. although we cannot predict whether or in what form these proposals will pass, several of the proposals being considered, if enacted into law, could have an adverse impact on our income tax expense and cash flows. our effective income tax rate in the future could be adversely affected by a number of factors, including changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws, the outcome of income tax audits in various jurisdictions around the world, and any repatriation of non-u.s. earnings for which we have not previously provided for u.s. taxes. the company is also subject to the examination of its tax returns by the internal revenue service and other tax authorities. we regularly assess all of these matters to determine the adequacy of our tax provision, which is subject to significant discretion. although we believe our tax provisions are adequate, the final determination of tax audits and any related disputes could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. the results of audits or related disputes could have an adverse effect on our financial statements for the period or periods for which the applicable final determinations are made. currency exchange rate fluctuations could result in lower revenues, higher costs and decreased margins and earnings. a majority of our products are sold outside of the united states. as a result, we conduct transactions in various currencies, which increase our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar. our international revenues and expenses generally are derived from sales and operations in foreign currencies, and these revenues and expenses could be affected by currency fluctuations, including amounts recorded in foreign currencies and translated into u.s. dollars for consolidated financial reporting. currency exchange rate fluctuations could also disrupt the business of the independent manufacturers that produce our products by making their purchases of raw materials more expensive and more difficult to finance. foreign currency fluctuations could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we may hedge certain foreign currency exposures to lessen and delay, but not to completely eliminate, the effects of foreign currency fluctuations on our financial results. since the hedging activities are designed to lessen volatility, they not only reduce the negative impact of a stronger u.s. dollar, but they also reduce the positive impact of a weaker u.s. dollar. our future financial results could be significantly affected by the value of the u.s. dollar in relation to the foreign currencies in which we conduct business. the degree to which our financial results are affected for any given time period will depend in part upon our hedging activities. if one or more of our counterparty financial institutions default on their obligations to us or fail, we may incur significant losses. as part of our hedging activities, we enter into transactions involving derivative financial instruments, which may include forward contracts, commodity futures contracts, option contracts, collars and swaps, with various financial institutions. in addition, we have significant amounts of cash, cash equivalents and other investments on deposit or in accounts with banks or other financial institutions in the united states and abroad. as a result, we are exposed to the risk of default by or failure of counterparty financial institutions. the risk of counterparty default or failure may be heightened during economic downturns and periods of uncertainty in the financial markets. if one of our counterparties were to become insolvent or file for bankruptcy, our ability to recover losses incurred as a result of default or our assets that are deposited or held in accounts with such counterparty may be limited by the counterparty's liquidity or the applicable laws governing the insolvency or bankruptcy proceedings. in the event of default or failure of one or more of our counterparties, we could incur significant losses, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. our products are subject to risks associated with overseas sourcing, manufacturing, and financing. the principal materials used in our apparel products natural and synthetic fabrics and threads, plastic and metal hardware, and specialized performance fabrics designed to repel rain or snow, retain heat, or efficiently wick moisture away from the body are available in countries where our manufacturing takes place. the principal materials used in our footwear products natural and synthetic rubber, plastic compounds, foam cushioning materials, nylon, leather, canvas and polyurethane films are also locally available to manufacturers. both our apparel and footwear products are dependent upon the ability of our unaffiliated contract manufacturers' to locate, train and employ adequate personnel. nike contractors and suppliers buy raw materials in bulk and are subject to wage rates that are oftentimes regulated by the governments of the countries in which our products are manufactured. there could be a significant disruption in the supply of fabrics or raw materials from current sources or, in the event of a disruption, we might not be able to locate alternative suppliers of materials of comparable quality at an acceptable price, or at all. further, there may be wage increases, whether government mandated or otherwise, that affect our unaffiliated contract manufacturers. in addition, we cannot be certain that our unaffiliated manufacturers will be able to fill our orders in a timely manner. if we experience significant increases in demand, or reductions in the availability of materials, or need to replace an existing manufacturer, there can be no assurance that additional supplies of fabrics or raw materials or additional manufacturing capacity will be available when required on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all, or that any supplier or manufacturer would allocate sufficient capacity to us in order to meet our requirements. in addition, even if we are able to expand existing or find new manufacturing or sources of materials, we may encounter delays in production and added costs as a result of the time it takes to train suppliers and manufacturers in our methods, products, quality control standards, and labor, health and safety standards. any delays, interruption or increased costs in labor or wages, or the supply of materials or manufacture of our products could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet retail customer and consumer demand for our products and result in lower revenues and net income both in the short and long-term. because independent manufacturers manufacture a majority of our products outside of our principal sales markets, our products must be transported by third parties over large geographic distances. delays in the shipment or delivery of our products due to the availability of transportation, work stoppages, port strikes, infrastructure congestion, or other factors, and costs and delays associated with consolidating or transitioning between manufacturers, could adversely impact our financial performance. in addition, manufacturing delays or unexpected demand for our products may require us to use faster, but more expensive, transportation methods such as air freight, which could adversely affect our profit margins. the cost of oil is a significant component in manufacturing and transportation costs, so increases in the price of petroleum products can adversely affect our profit margins. in addition, sojitz america performs significant import-export financing services for most of the nike brand products sold outside of the united states, europe, middle east, africa, and japan, excluding products produced and sold in the same country. any failure of sojitz america to provide these services or any failure of sojitz america's banks could disrupt our ability to acquire products from our suppliers and to deliver products to our customers outside of the united states, europe, middle east, africa, and japan. such a disruption could result in canceled orders that would adversely affect sales and profitability. 9 table of contents our success depends on our global distribution facilities. we distribute our products to customers directly from the factory and through distribution centers located throughout the world. our ability to meet customer expectations, manage inventory, complete sales and achieve objectives for operating efficiencies and growth, particularly in emerging markets, depends on the proper operation of our distribution facilities, the development or expansion of additional distribution capabilities, and the timely performance of services by third parties (including those involved in shipping product to and from our distribution facilities). our distribution facilities could be interrupted by information technology problems and disasters such as earthquakes or fires. any significant failure in our distribution facilities could result in an adverse effect on our business. we maintain business interruption insurance, but it may not adequately protect us from adverse effects that could be caused by significant disruptions in our distribution facilities. we rely significantly on information technology to operate our business, including our supply chain and retail operations, and any failure, inadequacy, breach, interruption or security failure of that technology or any misappropriation of any data could harm our reputation or our ability to effectively operate our business. we are heavily dependent on information technology systems and networks, including the internet and third-party hosted services ( information technology systems ), across our supply chain, including product design, production, forecasting, ordering, manufacturing, transportation, sales, and distribution, as well as for processing financial information for external and internal reporting purposes, retail operations and other business activities. our ability to effectively manage and maintain our inventory and to ship products to customers on a timely basis depends significantly on the reliability of these information technology systems. over a number of years, we have implemented information technology systems in all of the geographical regions in which we operate. our work to integrate and enhance these systems and related processes in our global operations is ongoing. the failure of these systems to operate effectively, problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, or a breach in security of these systems could cause delays in product fulfillment and reduced efficiency of our operations, could require significant capital investments to remediate the problem, and may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we also use information technology systems to process financial information and results of operations for internal reporting purposes and to comply with regulatory financial reporting, legal and tax requirements. if our information technology systems suffer severe damage, disruption or shutdown and our business continuity plans do not effectively resolve the issues in a timely manner, we could experience delays in reporting our financial results, which could result in lost revenues and profits, as well as reputational damage. in addition, hackers and data thieves are increasingly sophisticated and operate large scale and complex automated attacks. any breach of our network may result in the loss of valuable business data, our customers' or employees' personal information or a disruption of our business, which could give rise to unwanted media attention, damage our customer relationships and reputation and result in lost sales, fines or lawsuits. in addition, we must comply with increasingly complex regulatory standards enacted to protect this business and personal data. an inability to maintain compliance with these regulatory standards could subject us to legal risks. furthermore, we depend on information technology systems and personal data collection and use for digital marketing, digital commerce and the marketing and use of our digital sport products. we also engage in electronic communications throughout the world between and among our employees as well as with other third parties, including customers, suppliers, vendors and consumers. our information technology systems are critical to many of our operating activities and our business processes and may be negatively impacted by any service interruption or shutdown. misuse or leakage of personal information could result in a violation of data privacy laws and regulations and damage our reputation and credibility and have a negative impact on revenues and profits. the market for prime real estate is competitive. our ability to effectively obtain real estate to open new retail stores and otherwise conduct our operations, both domestically and internationally, depends on the availability of real estate that meets our criteria for traffic, square footage, co-tenancies, lease economics, demographics, and other factors. we also must be able to effectively renew our existing real estate leases. in addition, from time to time, we seek to downsize, consolidate, reposition, or close some of our real estate locations, which may require modification of an existing lease. failure to secure adequate new locations or successfully modify leases for existing locations, or failure to effectively manage the profitability of our existing fleet of retail stores, could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. additionally, the economic environment may at times make it difficult to determine the fair market rent of real estate properties domestically and internationally. this could impact the quality of our decisions to exercise lease options at previously negotiated rents and the quality of our decisions to renew expiring leases at negotiated rents. any adverse effect on the quality of these decisions could impact our ability to retain real estate locations adequate to meet our targets or efficiently manage the profitability of our existing fleet of stores and could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. natural disasters could negatively impact our operating results and financial condition. natural disasters such as earthquakes, hurricanes, tsunamis or other adverse weather and climate conditions, whether occurring in the u.s. or abroad, and the consequences and effects thereof, including energy shortages and public health issues, could disrupt our operations, or the operations of our vendors and other suppliers, or result in economic instability that may negatively impact our operating results and financial condition. our financial results may be adversely affected if substantial investments in businesses and operations fail to produce expected returns. from time to time, we may invest in business infrastructure, acquisitions of new businesses, product offering and manufacturing innovation, and expansion of existing businesses, such as our retail operations, which require substantial cash investments and management attention. we believe cost effective investments are essential to business growth and profitability. however, significant investments are subject to typical risks and uncertainties inherent in acquiring or expanding a business. the failure of any significant investment to provide their expected returns or profitability could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and divert management attention from more profitable business operations. we depend on key personnel, the loss of whom would harm our business. our future success will depend in part on the continued service of key executive officers and personnel. the loss of the services of any key individual could harm our business. our future success also depends on our ability to recruit, retain and motivate our personnel sufficiently, both to maintain our current business and to execute our strategic initiatives. competition for employees in our industry is intense and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. 10 table of contents the sale of a large number of shares held by our chairman could depress the market price of our common stock. philip h. knight, co-founder and chairman of our board of directors, beneficially owns over 75.6% of our class a common stock. if all of his class a common stock were converted into class b common stock, mr. knight would own over 15.8% of our class b common stock. these shares are available for resale, subject to the requirements of the u.s. securities laws. the sale or prospect of the sale of a substantial number of these shares could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. changes in our credit ratings or macroeconomic conditions may affect our liquidity, increasing borrowing costs and limiting our financing options. our long-term debt is currently rated investment grade by standard &amp; poor's and moody's investors service. if our credit ratings are lowered, borrowing costs for future long-term debt or short-term credit facilities may increase and our financing options, including our access to the unsecured credit market, could be limited. we may also be subject to restrictive covenants that would reduce our flexibility. in addition, macroeconomic conditions, such as increased volatility or disruption in the credit markets, could adversely affect our ability to refinance existing debt or obtain additional financing to support operations or to fund new initiatives. anti-takeover provisions may impair an acquisition of the company or reduce the price of our common stock. there are provisions of our articles of incorporation and oregon law that are intended to protect shareholder interests by providing the board of directors a means to attempt to deny coercive takeover attempts or to negotiate with a potential acquirer in order to obtain more favorable terms. such provisions include a control share acquisition statute, a freeze-out statute, two classes of stock that vote separately on certain issues, and the fact that holders of class a common stock elect three-quarters of the board of directors rounded down to the next whole number. however, such provisions could discourage, delay or prevent an unsolicited merger, acquisition or other change in control of our company that some shareholders might believe to be in their best interests or in which shareholders might receive a premium for their common stock over the prevailing market price. these provisions could also discourage proxy contests for control of the company. we may fail to meet market expectations, which could cause the price of our stock to decline. our class b common stock is traded publicly, and at any given time various securities analysts follow our financial results and issue reports on us. these reports include information about our historical financial results as well as analysts' estimates of our future performance. analysts' estimates are based upon their own opinions and are often different from our estimates or expectations. if our operating results are below the estimates or expectations of public market analysts and investors, our stock price could decline. in the past, securities class action litigation has been brought against nike and other companies following a decline in the market price of their securities. if our stock price is volatile, we may become involved in this type of litigation in the future. any litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources that are needed to successfully run our business. 11 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 38 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in the normal course of business and consistent with established policies and procedures, we employ a variety of financial instruments to manage exposure to fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies and interest rates. it is our policy to utilize these financial instruments only where necessary to finance our business and manage such exposures; we do not enter into these transactions for trading or speculative purposes. we are exposed to foreign currency fluctuations, primarily as a result of our international sales, product sourcing and funding activities. our foreign exchange risk management program is intended to lessen both the positive and negative effects of currency fluctuations on our consolidated results of operations, financial position and cash flows. we use forward exchange contracts and options to hedge certain anticipated but not yet firmly committed transactions as well as certain firm commitments and the related receivables and payables, including third-party and intercompany transactions. we have, and may in the future, also use forward contracts to hedge our investment in the net assets of certain international subsidiaries to offset foreign currency translation adjustments related to our net investment in those subsidiaries. where exposures are hedged, our program has the effect of delaying the impact of exchange rate movements on our consolidated financial statements. the timing for hedging exposures, as well as the type and duration of the hedge instruments employed, are guided by our hedging policies and determined based upon the nature of the exposure and prevailing market conditions. generally, hedged transactions are expected to be recognized within 12 to 18 months. when intercompany loans are hedged, it is typically for their expected duration. hedged transactions are principally denominated in euros, british pounds and japanese yen. see section foreign currency exposures and hedging practices under item 7 for additional detail. our earnings are also exposed to movements in short- and long-term market interest rates. our objective in managing this interest rate exposure is to limit the impact of interest rate changes on earnings and cash flows and to reduce overall borrowing costs. to achieve these objectives, we maintain a mix of commercial paper, bank loans and fixed rate debt of varying maturities and have entered into receive-fixed, pay-variable interest rate swaps for a portion of our fixed rate debt. market risk measurement we monitor foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk and related derivatives using a variety of techniques including a review of market value, sensitivity analysis, and value-at-risk ( var ). our market-sensitive derivative and other financial instruments are foreign currency forward contracts, foreign currency option contracts, interest rate swaps, intercompany loans denominated in non-functional currencies, fixed interest rate u.s. dollar denominated debt, and fixed interest rate japanese yen denominated debt. we use var to monitor the foreign exchange risk of our foreign currency forward and foreign currency option derivative instruments only. the var determines the maximum potential one-day loss in the fair value of these foreign exchange rate-sensitive financial instruments. the var model estimates assume normal market conditions and a 95% confidence level. there are various modeling techniques that can be used in the var computation. our computations are based on interrelationships between currencies and interest rates (a variance/co-variance technique). these interrelationships are a function of foreign exchange currency market changes and interest rate changes over the preceding one year period. the value of foreign currency options does not change on a one-to-one basis with changes in the underlying currency rate. we adjust the potential loss in option value for the estimated sensitivity (the delta and gamma ) to changes in the underlying currency rate. this calculation reflects the impact of foreign currency rate fluctuations on the derivative instruments only and does not include the impact of such rate fluctuations on non-functional currency transactions (such as anticipated transactions, firm commitments, cash balances, and accounts and loans receivable and payable), including those which are hedged by these instruments. the var model is a risk analysis tool and does not purport to represent actual losses in fair value that we will incur nor does it consider the potential effect of favorable changes in market rates. it also does not represent the full extent of the possible loss that may occur. actual future gains and losses will differ from those estimated because of changes or differences in market rates and interrelationships, hedging instruments and hedge percentages, timing and other factors. the estimated maximum one-day loss in fair value on our foreign currency sensitive derivative financial instruments, derived using the var model, was $34 million and $21 million at may 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. the var increased year-over-year as a result of an increase in the total notional value of our foreign currency derivative portfolio combined with a longer average duration on our outstanding trades at may 31, 2013. such a hypothetical loss in the fair value of our derivatives would be offset by increases in the value of the underlying transactions being hedged. the average monthly change in the fair values of foreign currency forward and foreign currency option derivative instruments was $49 million and $87 million during fiscal 2013 and fiscal 2012, respectively. the instruments not included in the var are intercompany loans denominated in non-functional currencies, fixed interest rate japanese yen denominated debt, fixed interest rate u.s. dollar denominated debt and interest rate swaps. intercompany loans and related interest amounts are eliminated in consolidation. furthermore, our non-functional currency intercompany loans are substantially hedged against foreign exchange risk through the use of forward contracts, which are included in the var calculation above. therefore, we consider the interest rate and foreign currency market risks associated with our non-functional currency intercompany loans to be immaterial to our consolidated financial position, results from operations and cash flows. details of third-party debt and interest rate swaps are provided in the table below. the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates. weighted average interest rates for the fixed rate swapped to floating rate debt reflect the effective interest rates at may 31, 2013. 38 table of contents expected maturity date year ending may 31, (dollars in millions) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 thereafter total fair value foreign exchange risk japanese yen functional currency long-term japanese yen debt fixed rate principal payments $ 7 $ 7 $ 7 $ 7 $ 7 $ 14 $ 49 $ 52 average interest rate 2.4 % 2.4 % 2.4 % 2.4 % 2.4 % 2.4 % 2.4 % interest rate risk japanese yen functional currency long-term japanese yen debt fixed rate principal payments $ 7 $ 7 $ 7 $ 7 $ 7 $ 14 $ 49 $ 52 average interest rate 2.4 % 2.4 % 2.4 % 2.4 % 2.4 % 2.4 % 2.4 % u.s. dollar functional currency long-term u.s. dollar debt fixed rate swapped to floating rate principal payments $ $ $ 100 $ $ $ $ 100 $ 110 average interest rate 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.4 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.4 % long-term u.s. dollar debt fixed rate principal payments $ 51 $ 1 $ 1 $ 38 $ 18 $ 1,000 $ 1,109 $ 1,057 average interest rate 4.7 % 6.4 % 6.4 % 6.2 % 6.8 % 2.9 % 3.2 % the fixed interest rate japanese yen denominated debt instruments were issued by and are accounted for by one of our japanese subsidiaries. accordingly, the monthly translation of these instruments, which varies due to changes in foreign exchange rates, is recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income upon the consolidation of this subsidiary.risk factors 6 risk factors special note regarding forward-looking statements and analyst reports certain written and oral statements, other than purely historic information, including estimates, projections, statements relating to nike's business plans, objectives, and expected operating results, and the assumptions upon which those statements are based, made or incorporated by reference from time to time by nike or its representatives in this report, other reports, filings with the sec, press releases, conferences, or otherwise, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended. forward-looking statements include, without limitation, any statement that may predict, forecast, indicate, or imply future results, performance, or achievements, and may contain the words believe, anticipate, expect, estimate, project, will be, will continue, will likely result, or words or phrases of similar meaning. forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties which may cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. the risks and uncertainties are detailed from time to time in reports filed by nike with the sec, including forms 8-k, 10-q, and 10-k, and include, among others, the following: international, national, and local general economic and market conditions; the size and growth of the overall athletic footwear, apparel, and equipment markets; intense competition among designers, marketers, distributors, and sellers of athletic footwear, apparel, and equipment for consumers and endorsers; demographic changes; changes in consumer preferences; popularity of particular designs, categories of products, and sports; seasonal and geographic demand for nike products; difficulties in anticipating or forecasting changes in consumer preferences, consumer demand for nike products, and the various market factors described above; difficulties in implementing, operating, and maintaining nike's increasingly complex information systems and controls, including, without limitation, the systems related to demand and supply planning and inventory control; interruptions in data and information technology systems; consumer data security; fluctuations and difficulty in forecasting operating results, including, without limitation, the fact that advance futures orders may not be indicative of future revenues due to changes in shipment timing, the changing mix of futures and at-once orders, and discounts, order cancellations, and returns; the ability of nike to sustain, manage, or forecast its growth and inventories; the size, timing, and mix of purchases of nike's products; increases in the cost of materials, labor, and energy used to manufacture products, new product development, and introduction; the ability to secure and protect trademarks, patents, and other intellectual property; product performance and quality; customer service; adverse publicity; the loss of significant customers or suppliers; dependence on distributors and licensees; business disruptions; increased costs of freight and transportation to meet delivery deadlines; increases in borrowing costs due to any decline in nike's debt ratings; changes in business strategy or development plans; general risks associated with doing business outside the united states, including, without limitation, exchange rate fluctuations, import duties, tariffs, quotas, political and economic instability, and terrorism; changes in government regulations; the impact of, including business and legal developments relating to, climate change; natural disasters; liability and other claims asserted against nike; the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel; the effects of nike's decision to invest in or divest of businesses; and other factors referenced or incorporated by reference in this report and other reports. the risks included here are not exhaustive. other sections of this report may include additional factors which could adversely affect nike's business and financial performance. moreover, nike operates in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. new risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors, nor can it assess the impact of all such risk factors on nike's business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. investors should also be aware that while nike does, from time to time, communicate with securities analysts, it is against nike's policy to disclose to them any material non-public information or other confidential commercial information. accordingly, shareholders should not assume that nike agrees with any statement or report issued by any analyst irrespective of the content of the statement or report. furthermore, nike has a policy against issuing or confirming financial forecasts or projections issued by others. thus, to the extent that reports issued by securities analysts contain any projections, forecasts, or opinions, such reports are not the responsibility of nike. our products face intense competition. nike is a consumer products company and the relative popularity of various sports and fitness activities and changing design trends affect the demand for our products. the athletic footwear, apparel, and equipment industry is highly competitive in the united states and on a worldwide basis. we compete internationally with a significant number of athletic and leisure footwear companies, athletic and leisure apparel companies, sports equipment companies, and large companies having diversified lines of athletic and leisure footwear, apparel, and equipment. we also compete with other companies for the production capacity of independent manufacturers that produce our products. product offerings, technologies, marketing expenditures (including expenditures for advertising and endorsements), pricing, costs of production, and customer service are areas of intense competition. this, in addition to rapid changes in technology and consumer preferences in the markets for athletic and leisure footwear and apparel, and athletic equipment, constitute significant risk factors in our operations. if we do not adequately and timely anticipate and respond to our competitors, our costs may increase or the consumer demand for our products may decline significantly. failure to maintain our reputation and brand image could negatively impact our business. our iconic brands have worldwide recognition, and our success depends on our ability to maintain and enhance our brand image and reputation. maintaining, promoting, and growing our brands will depend on our design and marketing efforts, including advertising and consumer campaigns, product innovation, and product quality. our commitment to product innovation and quality and our continuing investment in design (including materials) and marketing may not have the desired impact on our brand image and reputation. we could be adversely impacted if we fail to achieve any of these objectives or if the reputation or image of any of our brands is tarnished or receives negative publicity. in addition, adverse publicity about regulatory or legal action against us could damage our reputation and brand image, undermine consumer confidence in us and reduce long-term demand for our products, even if the regulatory or legal action is unfounded or not material to our operations. in addition, our success in maintaining, extending, and expanding our brand image depends on our ability to adapt to a rapidly changing media environment, including our increasing reliance on social media and online dissemination of advertising campaigns. negative posts or comments about us on social networking websites could seriously damage our reputation and brand image. if we do not maintain, extend, and expand our brand image, then our product sales, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 6 table of contents if we are unable to anticipate consumer preferences and develop new products, we may not be able to maintain or increase our revenues and profits. our success depends on our ability to identify, originate, and define product trends as well as to anticipate, gauge, and react to changing consumer demands in a timely manner. however, lead times for many of our products may make it more difficult for us to respond rapidly to new or changing product trends or consumer preferences. all of our products are subject to changing consumer preferences that cannot be predicted with certainty. our new products may not receive consumer acceptance as consumer preferences could shift rapidly to different types of performance products or away from these types of products altogether, and our future success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and respond to these changes. if we fail to anticipate accurately and respond to trends and shifts in consumer preferences by adjusting the mix of existing product offerings, developing new products, designs, styles, and categories, and influencing sports and fitness preferences through aggressive marketing, we could experience lower sales, excess inventories, or lower profit margins, any of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. in addition, we market our products globally through a diverse spectrum of advertising and promotional programs and campaigns, including social media and online advertising. if we do not successfully market our products or if advertising and promotional costs increase, these factors could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we rely on technical innovation and high-quality products to compete in the market for our products. technical innovation and quality control in the design and manufacturing process of footwear, apparel, and athletic equipment is essential to the commercial success of our products. research and development plays a key role in technical innovation. we rely upon specialists in the fields of biomechanics, chemistry, exercise physiology, engineering, industrial design, sustainability, and related fields, as well as research committees and advisory boards made up of athletes, coaches, trainers, equipment managers, orthopedists, podiatrists, and other experts to develop and test cutting edge performance products. while we strive to produce products that help to enhance athletic performance, reduce injury, and maximize comfort, if we fail to introduce technical innovation in our products, consumer demand for our products could decline, and if we experience problems with the quality of our products, we may incur substantial expense to remedy the problems. failure to continue to obtain high quality endorsers of our products could harm our business. we establish relationships with professional athletes, sports teams, and leagues to develop, evaluate and promote our products, as well as establish product authenticity with consumers. if certain endorsers were to stop using our products contrary to their endorsement agreements, our business could be adversely affected. in addition, actions taken by athletes, teams, or leagues associated with our products that harm the reputations of those athletes, teams, or leagues, could also seriously harm our brand image with consumers and, as a result, could have an adverse effect on our sales and financial condition. in addition, poor performance by our endorsers, a failure to continue to correctly identify promising athletes to use and endorse our products, or a failure to enter into cost-effective endorsement arrangements with prominent athletes and sports organizations could adversely affect our brand, sales, and profitability. currency exchange rate fluctuations could result in lower revenues, higher costs, and decreased margins and earnings. a majority of our products are manufactured and sold outside of the united states. as a result, we conduct purchase and sale transactions in various currencies, which increases our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates globally. our international revenues and expenses generally are derived from sales and operations in foreign currencies, and these revenues and expenses could be affected by currency fluctuations, including amounts recorded in foreign currencies and translated into u.s. dollars for consolidated financial reporting, as weakening of foreign currencies relative to the u.s. dollar adversely affects the u.s. dollar value of the company's foreign currency-denominated sales and earnings. currency exchange rate fluctuations could also disrupt the business of the independent manufacturers that produce our products by making their purchases of raw materials more expensive and more difficult to finance. foreign currency fluctuations have adversely affected, and could continue to have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 7 table of contents we may hedge certain foreign currency exposures to lessen and delay, but not to completely eliminate, the effects of foreign currency fluctuations on our financial results. since the hedging activities are designed to lessen volatility, they not only reduce the negative impact of a stronger u.s. dollar or other trading currency, but they also reduce the positive impact of a weaker u.s. dollar or other trading currency. our future financial results could be significantly affected by the value of the u.s. dollar in relation to the foreign currencies in which we conduct business. the degree to which our financial results are affected for any given time period will depend in part upon our hedging activities. global economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. although the global economy has been showing signs of improvement, its uncertain state continues to impact businesses around the world, and most acutely in emerging markets and developing economies. continuing uncertainty in the global capital and credit markets have led to fluctuations in the availability of business credit and capital liquidity, a contraction of consumer credit, business failures, sustained unemployment at historically high levels, and declines in consumer confidence and spending in many parts of the world. if global economic and financial market conditions do not improve or deteriorate, the following factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition: slower consumer spending may result in reduced demand for our products, reduced orders from retailers for our products, order cancellations, lower revenues, higher discounts, increased inventories, and lower gross margins. in the future, we may be unable to access financing in the credit and capital markets at reasonable rates in the event we find it desirable to do so. we conduct transactions in various currencies, which increase our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar. continued volatility in the markets and exchange rates for foreign currencies and contracts in foreign currencies could have a significant impact on our reported financial results and condition. continued volatility in the availability and prices for commodities and raw materials we use in our products and in our supply chain (such as cotton or petroleum derivatives) could have a material adverse effect on our costs, gross margins, and profitability. if retailers of our products experience declining revenues, or experience difficulty obtaining financing in the capital and credit markets to purchase our products, this could result in reduced orders for our products, order cancellations, late retailer payments, extended payment terms, higher accounts receivable, reduced cash flows, greater expense associated with collection efforts, and increased bad debt expense. if retailers of our products experience severe financial difficulty, some may become insolvent and cease business operations, which could negatively impact the sale of our products to consumers. if contract manufacturers of our products or other participants in our supply chain experience difficulty obtaining financing in the capital and credit markets to purchase raw materials or to finance capital equipment and other general working capital needs, it may result in delays or non-delivery of shipments of our products. our business is affected by seasonality, which could result in fluctuations in our operating results. we experience moderate fluctuations in aggregate sales volume during the year. historically, revenues in the first and fourth fiscal quarters have slightly exceeded those in the second and third fiscal quarters. however, the mix of product sales may vary considerably from time to time as a result of changes in seasonal and geographic demand for particular types of footwear, apparel, and equipment. in addition, our customers may cancel orders, change delivery schedules, or change the mix of products ordered with minimal notice. as a result, we may not be able to accurately predict our quarterly sales. accordingly, our results of operations are likely to fluctuate significantly from period to period. this seasonality, along with other factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions, changes in consumer preferences, weather conditions, availability of import quotas, and currency exchange rate fluctuations, could adversely affect our business and cause our results of operations to fluctuate. our operating margins are also sensitive to a number of additional factors that are beyond our control, including manufacturing and transportation costs, shifts in product sales mix, and geographic sales trends, all of which we expect to continue. results of operations in any period should not be considered indicative of the results to be expected for any future period. futures orders may not be an accurate indication of our future revenues. we make substantial use of our futures ordering program, which allows retailers to order five to six months in advance of delivery with the commitment that their orders will be delivered within a set period of time at a fixed price. our futures ordering program allows us to minimize the amount of products we hold in inventory, purchasing costs, the time necessary to fill customer orders, and the risk of non-delivery. we report changes in futures orders in our periodic financial reports. although we believe futures orders are an important indicator of our future revenues, reported futures orders are not necessarily indicative of our expectation of changes in revenues for any future period. this is because the mix of orders can shift between futures and at-once orders. in addition, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, order cancellations, shipping timing, returns, and discounts can cause differences in the comparisons between futures orders and actual revenues. moreover, a significant portion of our revenue is not derived from futures orders, including at-once and closeout sales of nike brand footwear and apparel, sales of nike brand equipment, sales from our direct to consumer operations, and sales from our converse, hurley, and nike golf businesses. our futures ordering program does not prevent excess inventories or inventory shortages, which could result in decreased operating margins, cash flows and harm to our business. we purchase products from manufacturers outside of our futures ordering program and in advance of customer orders, which we hold in inventory and resell to customers. there is a risk we may be unable to sell excess products ordered from manufacturers. inventory levels in excess of customer demand may result in inventory write-downs, and the sale of excess inventory at discounted prices could significantly impair our brand image and have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. conversely, if we underestimate consumer demand for our products or if our manufacturers fail to supply products we require at the time we need them, we may experience inventory shortages. inventory shortages might delay shipments to customers, negatively impact retailer and distributor relationships, and diminish brand loyalty. the difficulty in forecasting demand also makes it difficult to estimate our future results of operations and financial condition from period to period. a failure to accurately predict the level of demand for our products could adversely affect our net revenues and net income, and we are unlikely to forecast such effects with any certainty in advance. 8 table of contents we may be adversely affected by the financial health of our retailers. we extend credit to our customers based on an assessment of a customer's financial condition, generally without requiring collateral. to assist in the scheduling of production and the shipping of seasonal products, we offer customers the ability to place orders five to six months ahead of delivery under our futures ordering program. these advance orders may be canceled, and the risk of cancellation may increase when dealing with financially ailing retailers or retailers struggling with economic uncertainty. in the past, some customers have experienced financial difficulties, which have had an adverse effect on our business. when the retail economy weakens, retailers may be more cautious with orders. a slowing economy in our key markets could adversely affect the financial health of our customers, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. in addition, product sales are dependent in part on high quality merchandising and an appealing store environment to attract consumers, which requires continuing investments by retailers. retailers that experience financial difficulties may fail to make such investments or delay them, resulting in lower sales and orders for our products. consolidation of retailers or concentration of retail market share among a few retailers may increase and concentrate our credit risk, and impair our ability to sell products. the athletic footwear, apparel, and equipment retail markets in some countries are dominated by a few large athletic footwear, apparel, and equipment retailers with many stores. these retailers have in the past increased their market share and may continue to do so in the future by expanding through acquisitions and construction of additional stores. these situations concentrate our credit risk with a relatively small number of retailers, and, if any of these retailers were to experience a shortage of liquidity, it would increase the risk that their outstanding payables to us may not be paid. in addition, increasing market share concentration among one or a few retailers in a particular country or region increases the risk that if any one of them substantially reduces their purchases of our products, we may be unable to find a sufficient number of other retail outlets for our products to sustain the same level of sales and revenues. our direct to consumer operations have required and will continue to require a substantial investment and commitment of resources, and are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties. our direct to consumer stores have required substantial fixed investment in equipment and leasehold improvements, information systems, inventory, and personnel. we have entered into substantial operating lease commitments for retail space. certain stores have been designed and built to serve as high-profile venues to promote brand awareness and marketing activities. because of their unique design elements, locations, and size, these stores require substantially more investment than other stores. due to the high fixed-cost structure associated with our direct to consumer operations, a decline in sales, or the closure or poor performance of individual or multiple stores could result in significant lease termination costs, write-offs of equipment and leasehold improvements, and employee-related costs. many factors unique to retail operations, some of which are beyond the company's control, pose risks and uncertainties. risks include, but are not limited to: credit card fraud; mismanagement of existing retail channel partners; and inability to manage costs associated with store construction and operation. in addition, extreme weather conditions in the areas in which our stores are located could adversely affect our business. risks specific to our e-commerce business also include diversion of sales from our and our retailer's brick and mortar stores, difficulty in recreating the in-store experience through direct channels, and liability for online content. our failure to successfully respond to these risks might adversely affect sales in our e-commerce business, as well as damage our reputation and brands. failure to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights could adversely affect our business. we utilize trademarks on nearly all of our products and believe that having distinctive marks that are readily identifiable is an important factor in creating a market for our goods, in identifying us, and in distinguishing our goods from the goods of others. we consider our nike and swoosh design trademarks to be among our most valuable assets and we have registered these trademarks in almost 170 jurisdictions. in addition, we own many other trademarks that we utilize in marketing our products and services. we believe that our trademarks, patents, trade secrets, and other intellectual property rights are important to our brand, our success, and our competitive position. we periodically discover products that are counterfeit reproductions of our products or that otherwise infringe on our intellectual property rights. if we are unsuccessful in challenging a party's products on the basis of trade secret misappropriation or trademark, copyright, design patent, utility patent, or other intellectual property infringement, continued sales of these products could adversely affect our sales and our brand and result in the shift of consumer preference away from our products. the actions we take to establish and protect trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, patents, and other intellectual property rights may not be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as violations of proprietary rights. we may be subject to liability if third parties successfully claim that we infringe on their trademarks, copyrights, patents, or other intellectual property rights. defending infringement claims could be expensive and time-consuming and might result in our entering into costly license agreements. we also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development, use, importation, and/or sale of certain products. we take various actions to prevent confidential information from unauthorized use and/or disclosure. such actions include contractual measures such as entering into non-disclosure agreements and providing confidential information awareness training. our controls and efforts to prevent unauthorized use and/or disclosure of confidential information might not always be effective. confidential information that is related to business strategy, new technologies, mergers and acquisitions, unpublished financial results, or personal data could be prematurely or inadvertently used and/or disclosed, resulting in a loss of reputation, or a decline in our stock price, or a negative impact on our market position, and could lead to damages, fines, penalties, or injunctions. in addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect or allow enforcement of intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. we may face significant expenses and liability in connection with the protection of our intellectual property rights outside the united states, and if we are unable to successfully protect our rights or resolve intellectual property conflicts with others, our business or financial condition may be adversely affected. we are subject to data security and privacy risks that could negatively affect our results, operations or reputation. hackers and data thieves are increasingly sophisticated and operate large-scale and complex automated attacks. any breach of our network may result in the loss of valuable business data, misappropriation of our consumers' or employees' personal information, or a disruption of our business, which could give rise to unwanted media attention, materially damage our customer relationships and reputation, and result in lost sales, fines, or lawsuits. 9 table of contents in addition, we must comply with increasingly complex and rigorous regulatory standards enacted to protect business and personal data. any failure to comply with these regulatory standards could subject us to legal and reputational risks. misuse of or failure to secure personal information could also result in violation of data privacy laws and regulations, proceedings against the company by governmental entities or others, damage to our reputation and credibility, and could have a negative impact on revenues and profits. failure of our contractors or our licensees' contractors to comply with our code of conduct, local laws, and other standards could harm our business. we work with hundreds of contractors outside of the united states to manufacture our products, and we also have license agreements that permit unaffiliated parties to manufacture or contract for the manufacture of products using our intellectual property. we require the contractors that directly manufacture our products and our licensees that make products using our intellectual property (including, indirectly, their contract manufacturers) to comply with a code of conduct and other environmental, health, and safety standards for the benefit of workers. we also require these contractors to comply with applicable standards for product safety. notwithstanding their contractual obligations, from time to time contractors may not comply with such standards or applicable local law or our licensees may fail to enforce such standards or applicable local law on their contractors. significant or continuing noncompliance with such standards and laws by one or more contractors could harm our reputation or result in a product recall and, as a result, could have an adverse effect on our sales and financial condition. our international operations involve inherent risks which could result in harm to our business. virtually all of our athletic footwear and apparel is manufactured outside of the united states, and the majority of our products are sold outside of the united states. accordingly, we are subject to the risks generally associated with global trade and doing business abroad, which include foreign laws and regulations, varying consumer preferences across geographic regions, political unrest, disruptions or delays in cross-border shipments, and changes in economic conditions in countries in which we manufacture or sell products. in addition, disease outbreaks, terrorist acts, and military conflict have increased the risks of doing business abroad. these factors, among others, could affect our ability to manufacture products or procure materials, our ability to import products, our ability to sell products in international markets, and our cost of doing business. if any of these or other factors make the conduct of business in a particular country undesirable or impractical, our business could be adversely affected. in addition, many of our imported products are subject to duties, tariffs, or quotas that affect the cost and quantity of various types of goods imported into the united states and other countries. any country in which our products are produced or sold may eliminate, adjust, or impose new quotas, duties, tariffs, safeguard measures, anti-dumping duties, cargo restrictions to prevent terrorism, restrictions on the transfer of currency, climate change legislation, product safety regulations, or other charges or restrictions, any of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. changes in tax laws and unanticipated tax liabilities could adversely affect our effective income tax rate and profitability. we are subject to income taxes in the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. we earn a substantial portion of our income in foreign countries. if our capital or financing needs in the united states require us to repatriate earnings from foreign jurisdictions above our current levels, our effective income tax rates for the affected periods could be negatively impacted. current economic and political conditions make tax rules in any jurisdiction, including the united states, subject to significant change. there have been proposals to reform u.s. and foreign tax laws that could significantly impact how u.s. multinational corporations are taxed on foreign earnings. although we cannot predict whether or in what form these proposals will pass, several of the proposals considered, if enacted into law, could have an adverse impact on our income tax expense and cash flows. our effective income tax rate in the future could be adversely affected by a number of factors, including changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws, the outcome of income tax audits in various jurisdictions around the world, and any repatriation of non-u.s. earnings for which we have not previously provided for u.s. taxes. we and our subsidiaries are engaged in a number of intercompany transactions across multiple tax jurisdictions. although we believe that these transactions reflect the accurate economic allocation of profit and that the proper transfer pricing documentation is in place, the profit allocation and transfer pricing terms and conditions (required to be arm's length) may be scrutinized by local tax authorities during an audit and any resulting changes may impact our mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates. portions of our operations are subject to a reduced tax rate or are free of tax under various tax holidays and rulings that expire in whole or in part from time to time. these tax holidays and rulings may be extended when certain conditions are met, or terminated if certain conditions are not met. if the tax holidays and rulings are not extended, or if we fail to satisfy the conditions of the reduced tax rate, then our effective tax rate would increase in the future. we are also subject to the examination of our tax returns by the internal revenue service and other tax authorities. we regularly assess all of these matters to determine the adequacy of our tax provision, which is subject to significant discretion. although we believe our tax provisions are adequate, the final determination of tax audits and any related disputes could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. the results of audits or related disputes could have an adverse effect on our financial statements for the period or periods for which the applicable final determinations are made. if one or more of our counterparty financial institutions default on their obligations to us or fail, we may incur significant losses. as part of our hedging activities, we enter into transactions involving derivative financial instruments, which may include forward contracts, commodity futures contracts, option contracts, collars, and swaps with various financial institutions. in addition, we have significant amounts of cash, cash equivalents, and other investments on deposit or in accounts with banks or other financial institutions in the united states and abroad. as a result, we are exposed to the risk of default by or failure of counterparty financial institutions. the risk of counterparty default or failure may be heightened during economic downturns and periods of uncertainty in the financial markets. if one of our counterparties were to become insolvent or file for bankruptcy, our ability to recover losses incurred as a result of default or our assets that are deposited or held in accounts with such counterparty may be limited by the counterparty's liquidity or the applicable laws governing the insolvency or bankruptcy proceedings. in the event of default or failure of one or more of our counterparties, we could incur significant losses, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. 10 table of contents we rely on a concentrated source base of contract manufacturers to supply a significant portion of our footwear products. nike is supplied by approximately 150 footwear factories located in 14 countries. we do not own or operate any of our own manufacturing facilities and depend upon independent contract manufacturers to manufacture all of the products we sell. in fiscal 2014, five footwear contract manufacturers each accounted for greater than 10% of fiscal 2014 footwear production, and in aggregate accounted for approximately 67% of nike brand footwear production in fiscal 2014. our ability to meet our customers' needs depends on our ability to maintain a steady supply of products from our independent contract manufacturers. if one or more of our significant suppliers were to sever their relationship with us or significantly alter the terms of our relationship, we may not be able to obtain replacement products in a timely manner, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales, financial condition, or results of operations. additionally, if any of our primary contract manufacturers fail to make timely shipments, do not meet our quality standards, or otherwise fail to deliver us product in accordance with our plans, there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our products are subject to risks associated with overseas sourcing, manufacturing, and financing. the principal materials used in our apparel products natural and synthetic fabrics and threads, specialized performance fabrics designed to efficiently wick moisture away from the body, retain heat, or repel rain and/or snow as well as plastic and metal hardware are available in countries where our manufacturing takes place. the principal materials used in our footwear products natural and synthetic rubber, plastic compounds, foam cushioning materials, nylon, leather, canvas, and polyurethane films are also locally available to manufacturers. both our apparel and footwear products are dependent upon the ability of our unaffiliated contract manufacturers to locate, train, and employ adequate personnel. nike contractors and suppliers buy raw materials in bulk and are subject to wage rates that are oftentimes regulated by the governments of the countries in which our products are manufactured. there could be a significant disruption in the supply of fabrics or raw materials from current sources or, in the event of a disruption, our contract manufacturers might not be able to locate alternative suppliers of materials of comparable quality at an acceptable price, or at all. further, our unaffiliated contract manufacturers have experienced and may continue to experience in the future, unexpected increases in work wages, whether government mandated or otherwise. in addition, we cannot be certain that our unaffiliated manufacturers will be able to fill our orders in a timely manner. if we experience significant increases in demand, or reductions in the availability of materials, or need to replace an existing manufacturer, there can be no assurance that additional supplies of fabrics or raw materials or additional manufacturing capacity will be available when required on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all, or that any supplier or manufacturer would allocate sufficient capacity to us in order to meet our requirements. in addition, even if we are able to expand existing or find new manufacturing or sources of materials, we may encounter delays in production and added costs as a result of the time it takes to train suppliers and manufacturers in our methods, products, quality control standards, and labor, health, and safety standards. any delays, interruption, or increased costs in labor or wages, or the supply of materials or manufacture of our products could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet retail customer and consumer demand for our products and result in lower revenues and net income both in the short- and long- term. because independent manufacturers manufacture a majority of our products outside of our principal sales markets, our products must be transported by third parties over large geographic distances. delays in the shipment or delivery of our products due to the availability of transportation, work stoppages, port strikes, infrastructure congestion, or other factors, and costs and delays associated with consolidating or transitioning between manufacturers, could adversely impact our financial performance. in addition, manufacturing delays or unexpected demand for our products may require us to use faster, but more expensive, transportation methods such as air freight, which could adversely affect our profit margins. the cost of oil is a significant component in manufacturing and transportation costs, so increases in the price of petroleum products can adversely affect our profit margins. in addition, sojitz america performs significant import-export financing services for the company. during fiscal 2014, sojitz america provided financing and purchasing services for nike brand products sold in certain nike markets including argentina, uruguay, canada, brazil, india, indonesia, the philippines, malaysia, south africa, and thailand (collectively the "sojitz markets"), excluding products produced and sold in the same country. any failure of sojitz america to provide these services or any failure of sojitz america's banks could disrupt our ability to acquire products from our suppliers and to deliver products to our customers in the sojitz markets. such a disruption could result in canceled orders that would adversely affect sales and profitability. our success depends on our global distribution facilities. we distribute our products to customers directly from the factory and through distribution centers located throughout the world. our ability to meet customer expectations, manage inventory, complete sales, and achieve objectives for operating efficiencies and growth, particularly in emerging markets, depends on the proper operation of our distribution facilities, the development or expansion of additional distribution capabilities, and the timely performance of services by third parties (including those involved in shipping product to and from our distribution facilities). our distribution facilities could be interrupted by information technology problems and disasters such as earthquakes or fires. any significant failure in our distribution facilities could result in an adverse effect on our business. we maintain business interruption insurance, but it may not adequately protect us from adverse effects that could be caused by significant disruptions in our distribution facilities. we rely significantly on information technology to operate our business, including our supply chain and retail operations, and any failure, inadequacy, or interruption of that technology could harm our ability to effectively operate our business. we are heavily dependent on information technology systems and networks, including the internet and third-party hosted services ( information technology systems ), across our supply chain, including product design, production, forecasting, ordering, manufacturing, transportation, sales, and distribution, as well as for processing financial information for external and internal reporting purposes, retail operations, and other business activities. our ability to effectively manage and maintain our inventory and to ship products to customers on a timely basis depends significantly on the reliability of these information technology systems. over a number of years, we have implemented information technology systems in all of the geographical regions in which we operate. our work to integrate and enhance these systems and related processes in our global operations is ongoing. the failure of these systems to operate effectively or problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems could cause delays in product fulfillment and reduced efficiency of our operations, could require significant capital investments to remediate the problem, and may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we also use information technology systems to process financial information and results of operations for internal reporting purposes and to comply with regulatory financial reporting, legal, and tax requirements. if our information technology systems suffer severe damage, disruption, or shutdown 11 table of contents and our business continuity plans do not effectively resolve the issues in a timely manner, we could experience delays in reporting our financial results, which could result in lost revenues and profits, as well as reputational damage. furthermore, we depend on information technology systems and personal data collection and use for digital marketing, digital commerce, and the marketing and use of our digital sport products. we also engage in electronic communications throughout the world between and among our employees as well as with other third parties, including customers, suppliers, vendors, and consumers. our information technology systems are critical to many of our operating activities and our business processes and may be negatively impacted by any service interruption or shutdown. the market for prime real estate is competitive. our ability to effectively obtain real estate to open new retail stores and otherwise conduct our operations, both domestically and internationally, depends on the availability of real estate that meets our criteria for traffic, square footage, co-tenancies, lease economics, demographics, and other factors. we also must be able to effectively renew our existing real estate leases. in addition, from time to time, we seek to downsize, consolidate, reposition, or close some of our real estate locations, which may require modification of an existing lease. failure to secure adequate new locations or successfully modify leases for existing locations, or failure to effectively manage the profitability of our existing fleet of retail stores, could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. additionally, the economic environment may at times make it difficult to determine the fair market rent of real estate properties domestically and internationally. this could impact the quality of our decisions to exercise lease options at previously negotiated rents and to renew expiring leases at negotiated rents. any adverse effect on the quality of these decisions could impact our ability to retain real estate locations adequate to meet our targets or efficiently manage the profitability of our existing fleet of stores, which could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. extreme weather conditions and natural disasters could negatively impact our operating results and financial condition. extreme weather conditions in the areas in which our retail stores, suppliers, customers, and vendors are located could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. moreover, natural disasters such as earthquakes, hurricanes, and tsunamis, whether occurring in the united states or abroad, and their related consequences and effects, including energy shortages and public health issues, could disrupt our operations, the operations of our vendors and other suppliers, or result in economic instability that may negatively impact our operating results and financial condition. our financial results may be adversely affected if substantial investments in businesses and operations fail to produce expected returns. from time to time, we may invest in business infrastructure, new businesses, product offering and manufacturing innovation, and expansion of existing businesses, such as our retail operations, which require substantial cash investments and management attention. we believe cost-effective investments are essential to business growth and profitability. however, significant investments are subject to typical risks and uncertainties inherent in developing a new business or expanding an existing business. the failure of any significant investment to provide expected returns or profitability could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and divert management attention from more profitable business operations. we are subject to periodic litigation and other regulatory proceedings, which could result in unexpected expense of time and resources. from time to time we are called upon to defend ourselves against lawsuits and regulatory actions relating to our business. due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation and regulatory proceedings, we cannot accurately predict the ultimate outcome of any such proceedings. an unfavorable outcome could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, any significant litigation in the future, regardless of its merits, could divert management's attention from our operations and result in substantial legal fees. we depend on key personnel, the loss of whom would harm our business. our future success will depend in part on the continued service of key executive officers and personnel. the loss of the services of any key individual could harm our business. our future success also depends on our ability to recruit, retain, and motivate our personnel sufficiently, both to maintain our current business and to execute our strategic initiatives. competition for employees in our industry is intense and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. the sale of a large number of shares held by our chairman could depress the market price of our common stock. as of june 30, 2014, philip h. knight, co-founder and chairman of our board of directors, beneficially owned more than 75.1% of our class a common stock. if on june 30, 2014 all of his class a common stock were converted into class b common stock, mr. knight would have owned more than 16.2% of our class b common stock. these shares are available for resale, subject to the requirements of the u.s. securities laws. the sale or prospect of the sale of a substantial number of these shares could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. changes in our credit ratings or macroeconomic conditions may affect our liquidity, increasing borrowing costs and limiting our financing options. our long-term debt is currently rated investment grade by standard &amp; poor's and moody's investors service. if our credit ratings are lowered, borrowing costs for future long-term debt or short-term credit facilities may increase and our financing options, including our access to the unsecured credit market, could be limited. we may also be subject to restrictive covenants that would reduce our flexibility. in addition, macroeconomic conditions, such as increased volatility or disruption in the credit markets, could adversely affect our ability to refinance existing debt or obtain additional financing to support operations or to fund new initiatives. anti-takeover provisions may impair an acquisition of the company or reduce the price of our common stock. there are provisions of our articles of incorporation and oregon law that are intended to protect shareholder interests by providing the board of directors a means to attempt to deny coercive takeover attempts or to negotiate with a potential acquirer in order to obtain more favorable terms. such provisions include a control share acquisition statute, a freeze-out statute, two classes of stock that vote separately on certain issues, and the fact that holders of class a common stock elect three-quarters of the board of directors rounded down to the next whole number. however, such provisions could discourage, delay or prevent an unsolicited merger, acquisition, or other change in control of our company that some 12 table of contents shareholders might believe to be in their best interests or in which shareholders might receive a premium for their common stock over the prevailing market price. these provisions could also discourage proxy contests for control of the company. we may fail to meet market expectations, which could cause the price of our stock to decline. our class b common stock is traded publicly, and at any given time various securities analysts follow our financial results and issue reports on us. these reports include information about our historical financial results as well as analysts' estimates of our future performance. analysts' estimates are based upon their own opinions and are often different from our estimates or expectations. if our operating results are below the estimates or expectations of public market analysts and investors, our stock price could decline. in the past, securities class action litigation has been brought against nike and other companies following a decline in the market price of their securities. if our stock price is volatile, we may become involved in this type of litigation in the future. any litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources that are needed to successfully run our business. 13 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 40 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in the normal course of business and consistent with established policies and procedures, we employ a variety of financial instruments to manage exposure to fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies and interest rates. it is our policy to utilize these financial instruments only where necessary to finance our business and manage such exposures; we do not enter into these transactions for trading or speculative purposes. we are exposed to foreign currency fluctuations, primarily as a result of our international sales, product sourcing, and funding activities. our foreign exchange risk management program is intended to lessen both the positive and negative effects of currency fluctuations on our consolidated results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. we use forward exchange contracts and options to hedge certain anticipated but not yet firmly committed transactions as well as certain firm commitments and the related receivables and payables, including third-party and intercompany transactions. we have, and may in the future, also use forward contracts or options to hedge our investment in the net assets of certain international subsidiaries to offset foreign currency translation adjustments related to our net investment in those subsidiaries. where exposures are hedged, our program has the effect of delaying the impact of exchange rate movements on our consolidated financial statements. the timing for hedging exposures, as well as the type and duration of the hedge instruments employed, are guided by our hedging policies and determined based upon the nature of the exposure and prevailing market conditions. typically, the company may enter into hedge contracts starting 12 to 24 months in advance of the forecasted transaction and may place incremental hedges up to 100% of the exposure by the time the forecasted transaction occurs. hedged transactions are principally denominated in euros, british pounds, and japanese yen. see section foreign currency exposures and hedging practices under item 7 for additional detail. our earnings are also exposed to movements in short- and long-term market interest rates. our objective in managing this interest rate exposure is to limit the impact of interest rate changes on earnings and cash flows and to reduce overall borrowing costs. to achieve these objectives, we maintain a mix of commercial paper, bank loans, and fixed rate debt of varying maturities and have entered into receive-fixed, pay-variable interest rate swaps for a portion of our fixed rate debt. market risk measurement we monitor foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, and related derivatives using a variety of techniques including a review of market value, sensitivity analysis, and value-at-risk ( var ). our market-sensitive derivative and other financial instruments are foreign currency forward contracts, foreign currency option contracts, interest rate swaps, intercompany loans denominated in non-functional currencies, fixed interest rate u.s. dollar denominated debt, and fixed interest rate japanese yen denominated debt. we use var to monitor the foreign exchange risk of our foreign currency forward and foreign currency option derivative instruments only. the var determines the maximum potential one-day loss in the fair value of these foreign exchange rate-sensitive financial instruments. the var model estimates assume normal market conditions and a 95% confidence level. there are various modeling techniques that can be used in the var computation. our computations are based on interrelationships between currencies and interest rates (a variance/co-variance technique). these interrelationships are a function of foreign exchange currency market changes and interest rate changes over the preceding one year period. the value of foreign currency options does not change on a one-to-one basis with changes in the underlying currency rate. we adjust the potential loss in option value for the estimated sensitivity (the delta and gamma ) to changes in the underlying currency rate. this calculation reflects the impact of foreign currency rate fluctuations on the derivative instruments only and does not include the impact of such rate fluctuations on non-functional currency transactions (such as anticipated transactions, firm commitments, cash balances, and accounts and loans receivable and payable), including those which are hedged by these instruments. the var model is a risk analysis tool and does not purport to represent actual losses in fair value that we will incur nor does it consider the potential effect of favorable changes in market rates. it also does not represent the full extent of the possible loss that may occur. actual future gains and losses will differ from those estimated because of changes or differences in market rates and interrelationships, hedging instruments and hedge percentages, timing, and other factors. the estimated maximum one-day loss in fair value on our foreign currency sensitive derivative financial instruments, derived using the var model, was $50 million and $34 million at may 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. the var increased year-over-year as a result of an increase in the total notional value of our foreign currency derivative portfolio combined with a longer average duration on our outstanding trades at may 31, 2014. such a hypothetical loss in the fair value of our derivatives would be offset by increases in the value of the underlying transactions being hedged. the average monthly change in the fair values of foreign currency forward and foreign currency option derivative instruments was $70 million and $49 million during fiscal 2014 and fiscal 2013, respectively. the instruments not included in the var are intercompany loans denominated in non-functional currencies, fixed interest rate japanese yen denominated debt, fixed interest rate u.s. dollar denominated debt, and interest rate swaps. intercompany loans and related interest amounts are eliminated in consolidation. furthermore, our non-functional currency intercompany loans are substantially hedged against foreign exchange risk through the use of forward contracts, which are included in the var calculation above. therefore, we consider the interest rate and foreign currency market risks associated with our non-functional currency intercompany loans to be immaterial to our consolidated financial position, results from operations and cash flows. details of third-party debt and interest rate swaps are provided in the table below. the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates. weighted average interest rates for the fixed rate swapped to floating rate debt reflect the effective interest rates at may 31, 2014. 40 table of contents expected maturity date year ending may 31, (dollars in millions) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 thereafter total fair value foreign exchange risk japanese yen functional currency long-term japanese yen debt fixed rate principal payments $ 7 $ 7 $ 7 $ 7 $ 7 $ 7 $ 42 $ 45 average interest rate 2.4 % 2.4 % 2.4 % 2.4 % 2.4 % 2.4 % 2.4 % interest rate risk japanese yen functional currency long-term japanese yen debt fixed rate principal payments $ 7 $ 7 $ 7 $ 7 $ 7 $ 7 $ 42 $ 45 average interest rate 2.4 % 2.4 % 2.4 % 2.4 % 2.4 % 2.4 % 2.4 % u.s. dollar functional currency long-term u.s. dollar debt fixed rate swapped to floating rate principal payments $ $ 100 $ $ $ $ $ 100 $ 106 average interest rate 0.0 % 0.3 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.3 % long-term u.s. dollar debt fixed rate principal payments $ 1 $ 1 $ 38 $ 18 $ $ 1,000 $ 1,058 $ 1,003 average interest rate 6.4 % 6.4 % 6.2 % 6.8 % % 2.9 % 3.1 % the fixed interest rate japanese yen denominated debt instruments were issued by and are accounted for by one of our japanese subsidiaries. accordingly, the monthly translation of these instruments, which varies due to changes in foreign exchange rates, is recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income upon consolidation of this subsidiary.risk factors 6 risk factors special note regarding forward-looking statements and analyst reports certain written and oral statements, other than purely historic information, including estimates, projections, statements relating to nike's business plans, objectives and expected operating results and the assumptions upon which those statements are based, made or incorporated by reference from time to time by nike or its representatives in this report, other reports, filings with the sec, press releases, conferences or otherwise, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended. forward-looking statements include, without limitation, any statement that may predict, forecast, indicate or imply future results, performance or achievements, and may contain the words believe, anticipate, expect, estimate, project, will be, will continue, will likely result or words or phrases of similar meaning. forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties which may cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. the risks and uncertainties are detailed from time to time in reports filed by nike with the sec, including reports filed on forms 8-k, 10-q and 10-k, and include, among others, the following: international, national and local general economic and market conditions; the size and growth of the overall athletic footwear, apparel and equipment markets; intense competition among designers, marketers, distributors and sellers of athletic footwear, apparel and equipment for consumers and endorsers; demographic changes; changes in consumer preferences; popularity of particular designs, categories of products and sports; seasonal and geographic demand for nike products; difficulties in anticipating or forecasting changes in consumer preferences, consumer demand for nike products and the various market factors described above; difficulties in implementing, operating and maintaining nike's increasingly complex information systems and controls, including, without limitation, the systems related to demand and supply planning and inventory control; interruptions in data and information technology systems; consumer data security; fluctuations and difficulty in forecasting operating results, including, without limitation, the fact that advance futures orders may not be indicative of future revenues due to changes in shipment timing, the changing mix of futures and at-once orders, and discounts, order cancellations and returns; the ability of nike to sustain, manage or forecast its growth and inventories; the size, timing and mix of purchases of nike's products; increases in the cost of materials, labor and energy used to manufacture products; new product development and introduction; the ability to secure and protect trademarks, patents and other intellectual property; product performance and quality; customer service; adverse publicity; the loss of significant customers or suppliers; dependence on distributors and licensees; business disruptions; increased costs of freight and transportation to meet delivery deadlines; increases in borrowing costs due to any decline in nike's debt ratings; changes in business strategy or development plans; general risks associated with doing business outside the united states, including, without limitation, exchange rate fluctuations, import duties, tariffs, quotas, political and economic instability and terrorism; changes in government regulations; the impact of, including business and legal developments relating to, climate change; natural disasters; liability and other claims asserted against nike; the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel; the effects of nike's decision to invest in or divest of businesses and other factors referenced or incorporated by reference in this report and other reports. the risks included here are not exhaustive. other sections of this report may include additional factors which could adversely affect nike's business and financial performance. moreover, nike operates in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. new risks emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risks, nor can it assess the impact of all such risks on nike's business or the extent to which any risk, or combination of risks, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. investors should also be aware that while nike does, from time to time, communicate with securities analysts, it is against nike's policy to disclose to them any material non-public information or other confidential commercial information. accordingly, shareholders should not assume that nike agrees with any statement or report issued by any analyst irrespective of the content of the statement or report. furthermore, nike has a policy against issuing or confirming financial forecasts or projections issued by others. thus, to the extent that reports issued by securities analysts contain any projections, forecasts or opinions, such reports are not the responsibility of nike. our products face intense competition. nike is a consumer products company and the relative popularity of various sports and fitness activities and changing design trends affect the demand for our products. the athletic footwear, apparel and equipment industry is highly competitive in the united states and on a worldwide basis. we compete internationally with a significant number of athletic and leisure footwear companies, athletic and leisure apparel companies, sports equipment companies and large companies having diversified lines of athletic and leisure footwear, apparel and equipment. we also compete with other companies for the production capacity of independent manufacturers that produce our products. product offerings, technologies, marketing expenditures (including expenditures for advertising and endorsements), pricing, costs of production, customer service and social media presence are areas of intense competition. this, in addition to rapid changes in technology and consumer preferences in the markets for athletic and leisure footwear and apparel, and athletic equipment, constitute significant risk factors in our operations. if we do not adequately and timely anticipate and respond to our competitors, our costs may increase or the consumer demand for our products may decline significantly. failure to maintain our reputation and brand image could negatively impact our business. our iconic brands have worldwide recognition, and our success depends on our ability to maintain and enhance our brand image and reputation. maintaining, promoting and growing our brands will depend on our design and marketing efforts, including advertising and consumer campaigns, product innovation and product quality. our commitment to product innovation and quality and our continuing investment in design (including materials) and marketing may not have the desired impact on our brand image and reputation. we could be adversely impacted if we fail to achieve any of these objectives or if the reputation or image of any of our brands is tarnished or receives negative publicity. in addition, adverse publicity about regulatory or legal action against us could damage our reputation and brand image, undermine consumer confidence in us and reduce long-term demand for our products, even if the regulatory or legal action is unfounded or not material to our operations. in addition, our success in maintaining, extending and expanding our brand image depends on our ability to adapt to a rapidly changing media environment, including our increasing reliance on social media and online dissemination of advertising campaigns. negative posts or comments about us on social networking websites could seriously damage our reputation and brand image. if we do not maintain, extend and expand our brand image, then our product sales, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 6 table of contents if we are unable to anticipate consumer preferences and develop new products, we may not be able to maintain or increase our revenues and profits. our success depends on our ability to identify, originate and define product trends as well as to anticipate, gauge and react to changing consumer demands in a timely manner. however, lead times for many of our products may make it more difficult for us to respond rapidly to new or changing product trends or consumer preferences. all of our products are subject to changing consumer preferences that cannot be predicted with certainty. our new products may not receive consumer acceptance as consumer preferences could shift rapidly to different types of performance products or away from these types of products altogether, and our future success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and respond to these changes. if we fail to anticipate accurately and respond to trends and shifts in consumer preferences by adjusting the mix of existing product offerings, developing new products, designs, styles and categories, and influencing sports and fitness preferences through aggressive marketing, we could experience lower sales, excess inventories or lower profit margins, any of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. in addition, we market our products globally through a diverse spectrum of advertising and promotional programs and campaigns, including social media and online advertising. if we do not successfully market our products or if advertising and promotional costs increase, these factors could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we rely on technical innovation and high-quality products to compete in the market for our products. technical innovation and quality control in the design and manufacturing process of footwear, apparel and athletic equipment is essential to the commercial success of our products. research and development plays a key role in technical innovation. we rely upon specialists in the fields of biomechanics, chemistry, exercise physiology, engineering, industrial design, sustainability and related fields, as well as research committees and advisory boards made up of athletes, coaches, trainers, equipment managers, orthopedists, podiatrists and other experts to develop and test cutting edge performance products. while we strive to produce products that help to enhance athletic performance, reduce injury and maximize comfort, if we fail to introduce technical innovation in our products, consumer demand for our products could decline, and if we experience problems with the quality of our products, we may incur substantial expense to remedy the problems. failure to continue to obtain or maintain high-quality endorsers of our products could harm our business. we establish relationships with professional athletes, sports teams and leagues to develop, evaluate and promote our products, as well as establish product authenticity with consumers. however, as competition in our industry has increased, the costs associated with establishing and retaining such sponsorships and other relationships have increased. if we are unable to maintain our current associations with professional athletes, sports teams and leagues, or to do so at a reasonable cost, we could lose the on-field authenticity associated with our products, and we may be required to modify and substantially increase our marketing investments. as a result, our brands, net revenues, expenses and profitability could be harmed. furthermore, if certain endorsers were to stop using our products contrary to their endorsement agreements, our business could be adversely affected. in addition, actions taken by athletes, teams or leagues associated with our products that harm the reputations of those athletes, teams or leagues, could also seriously harm our brand image with consumers and, as a result, could have an adverse effect on our sales and financial condition. in addition, poor performance by our endorsers, a failure to continue to correctly identify promising athletes to use and endorse our products, or a failure to enter into cost-effective endorsement arrangements with prominent athletes and sports organizations could adversely affect our brand, sales and profitability. currency exchange rate fluctuations could result in lower revenues, higher costs and decreased margins and earnings. a majority of our products are manufactured and sold outside of the united states. as a result, we conduct purchase and sale transactions in various currencies, which increases our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates globally. our international revenues and expenses generally are derived from sales and operations in foreign currencies, and these revenues and expenses could be affected by currency fluctuations, including amounts recorded in foreign currencies and translated into u.s. dollars for consolidated financial reporting, as weakening of foreign currencies relative to the u.s. dollar adversely affects the u.s. dollar value of the company's foreign currency-denominated sales and earnings. currency exchange rate fluctuations could also disrupt the business of the independent manufacturers that produce our products by making their purchases of raw materials more expensive and more difficult to finance. foreign currency fluctuations have adversely affected, and could continue to have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we may hedge certain foreign currency exposures to lessen and delay, but not to completely eliminate, the effects of foreign currency fluctuations on our financial results. since the hedging activities are designed to lessen volatility, they not only reduce the negative impact of a stronger u.s. dollar or other trading currency, but they also reduce the positive impact of a weaker u.s. dollar or other trading currency. our future financial results could be significantly affected by the value of the u.s. dollar in relation to the foreign currencies in which we conduct business. the degree to which our financial results are affected for any given time period will depend in part upon our hedging activities. 7 table of contents global economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. the uncertain state of the global economy continues to impact businesses around the world, and most acutely in emerging markets and developing economies. if global economic and financial market conditions do not improve or deteriorate, the following factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition: slower consumer spending may result in reduced demand for our products, reduced orders from retailers for our products, order cancellations, lower revenues, higher discounts, increased inventories and lower gross margins. in the future, we may be unable to access financing in the credit and capital markets at reasonable rates in the event we find it desirable to do so. we conduct transactions in various currencies, which increases our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar. continued volatility in the markets and exchange rates for foreign currencies and contracts in foreign currencies could have a significant impact on our reported operating results and financial condition. continued volatility in the availability and prices for commodities and raw materials we use in our products and in our supply chain (such as cotton or petroleum derivatives) could have a material adverse effect on our costs, gross margins and profitability. if retailers of our products experience declining revenues, or experience difficulty obtaining financing in the capital and credit markets to purchase our products, this could result in reduced orders for our products, order cancellations, late retailer payments, extended payment terms, higher accounts receivable, reduced cash flows, greater expense associated with collection efforts and increased bad debt expense. if retailers of our products experience severe financial difficulty, some may become insolvent and cease business operations, which could negatively impact the sale of our products to consumers. if contract manufacturers of our products or other participants in our supply chain experience difficulty obtaining financing in the capital and credit markets to purchase raw materials or to finance capital equipment and other general working capital needs, it may result in delays or non-delivery of shipments of our products. our business is affected by seasonality, which could result in fluctuations in our operating results. we experience moderate fluctuations in aggregate sales volume during the year. historically, revenues in the first and fourth fiscal quarters have slightly exceeded those in the second and third fiscal quarters. however, the mix of product sales may vary considerably from time to time as a result of changes in seasonal and geographic demand for particular types of footwear, apparel and equipment and in connection with the timing of global sporting events, including without limitation the olympics and the world cup. in addition, our customers may cancel orders, change delivery schedules or change the mix of products ordered with minimal notice. as a result, we may not be able to accurately predict our quarterly sales. accordingly, our results of operations are likely to fluctuate significantly from period to period. this seasonality, along with other factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions, changes in consumer preferences, weather conditions, availability of import quotas, transportation disruptions and currency exchange rate fluctuations, could adversely affect our business and cause our results of operations to fluctuate. our operating margins are also sensitive to a number of additional factors that are beyond our control, including manufacturing and transportation costs, shifts in product sales mix and geographic sales trends, all of which we expect to continue. results of operations in any period should not be considered indicative of the results to be expected for any future period. futures orders may not be an accurate indication of our future revenues. we make substantial use of our futures ordering program, which allows retailers to order five to six months in advance of delivery with the commitment that their orders will be delivered within a set period of time at a fixed price. our futures ordering program allows us to minimize the amount of products we hold in inventory, purchasing costs, the time necessary to fill customer orders and the risk of non-delivery. we report changes in futures orders in our periodic financial reports. although we believe futures orders are an important indicator of our future revenues, reported futures orders are not necessarily indicative of our expectation of revenues for any future period. this is because the mix of orders can shift between futures and at-once orders. in addition, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, order cancellations, shipping timing, returns and discounts can cause differences in the comparisons between futures orders and actual revenues. moreover, a significant portion of our revenue is not derived from futures orders, including at-once and closeout sales of nike brand footwear and apparel, sales of nike brand equipment, sales from our direct to consumer operations and sales from our converse, hurley and nike golf businesses. our futures ordering program does not prevent excess inventories or inventory shortages, which could result in decreased operating margins, cash flows and harm to our business. we purchase products from manufacturers outside of our futures ordering program and in advance of customer orders, which we hold in inventory and resell to customers. there is a risk we may be unable to sell excess products ordered from manufacturers. inventory levels in excess of customer demand may result in inventory write-downs, and the sale of excess inventory at discounted prices could significantly impair our brand image and have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. conversely, if we underestimate consumer demand for our products or if our manufacturers fail to supply products we require at the time we need them, we may experience inventory shortages. inventory shortages might delay shipments to customers, negatively impact retailer and distributor relationships and diminish brand loyalty. the difficulty in forecasting demand also makes it difficult to estimate our future results of operations and financial condition from period to period. a failure to accurately predict the level of demand for our products could adversely affect our net revenues and net income, and we are unlikely to forecast such effects with any certainty in advance. 8 table of contents we may be adversely affected by the financial health of our retailers. we extend credit to our customers based on an assessment of a customer's financial condition, generally without requiring collateral. to assist in the scheduling of production and the shipping of seasonal products, we offer customers the ability to place orders five to six months ahead of delivery under our futures ordering program. these advance orders may be canceled, and the risk of cancellation may increase when dealing with financially ailing retailers or retailers struggling with economic uncertainty. in the past, some customers have experienced financial difficulties, which have had an adverse effect on our sales, our ability to collect on receivables and our financial condition. when the retail economy weakens, retailers may be more cautious with orders. a slowing economy in our key markets could adversely affect the financial health of our customers, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. in addition, product sales are dependent in part on high quality merchandising and an appealing store environment to attract consumers, which requires continuing investments by retailers. retailers that experience financial difficulties may fail to make such investments or delay them, resulting in lower sales and orders for our products. consolidation of retailers or concentration of retail market share among a few retailers may increase and concentrate our credit risk, and impair our ability to sell products. the athletic footwear, apparel and equipment retail markets in some countries are dominated by a few large athletic footwear, apparel and equipment retailers with many stores. these retailers have in the past increased their market share and may continue to do so in the future by expanding through acquisitions and construction of additional stores. these situations concentrate our credit risk with a relatively small number of retailers, and, if any of these retailers were to experience a shortage of liquidity, it would increase the risk that their outstanding payables to us may not be paid. in addition, increasing market share concentration among one or a few retailers in a particular country or region increases the risk that if any one of them substantially reduces their purchases of our products, we may be unable to find a sufficient number of other retail outlets for our products to sustain the same level of sales and revenues. our direct to consumer operations have required and will continue to require a substantial investment and commitment of resources, and are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties. our direct to consumer stores have required substantial fixed investment in equipment and leasehold improvements, information systems, inventory and personnel. we have entered into substantial operating lease commitments for retail space. certain stores have been designed and built to serve as high-profile venues to promote brand awareness and marketing activities. because of their unique design elements, locations and size, these stores require substantially more investment than other stores. due to the high fixed-cost structure associated with our direct to consumer operations, a decline in sales or the closure or poor performance of individual or multiple stores could result in significant lease termination costs, write-offs of equipment and leasehold improvements and employee-related costs. many factors unique to retail operations, some of which are beyond the company's control, pose risks and uncertainties. risks include, but are not limited to: credit card fraud; mismanagement of existing retail channel partners; and inability to manage costs associated with store construction and operation. in addition, extreme weather conditions in the areas in which our stores are located could adversely affect our business. if the technology-based systems that give our customers the ability to shop with us online do not function effectively, our operating results, as well as our ability to grow our e-commerce business globally, could be materially adversely affected. many of our customers shop with us through our e-commerce website and mobile commerce applications. increasingly, customers are using tablets and smart phones to shop online with us and with our competitors and to do comparison shopping. we are increasingly using social media and proprietary mobile applications to interact with our customers and as a means to enhance their shopping experience. any failure on our part to provide attractive, effective, reliable, user-friendly e-commerce platforms that offer a wide assortment of merchandise with rapid delivery options and that continually meet the changing expectations of online shoppers could place us at a competitive disadvantage, result in the loss of e-commerce and other sales, harm our reputation with customers, have a material adverse impact on the growth of our e-commerce business globally and could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. risks specific to our e-commerce business also include diversion of sales from our and our retailers' brick and mortar stores, difficulty in recreating the in-store experience through direct channels and liability for online content. our failure to successfully respond to these risks might adversely affect sales in our e-commerce business, as well as damage our reputation and brands. failure to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights could adversely affect our business. we believe that our intellectual property rights are important to our brand, our success and our competitive position. we periodically discover products that are counterfeit reproductions of our products or that otherwise infringe on our intellectual property rights. if we are unsuccessful in enforcing our intellectual property, continued sales of these products could adversely affect our sales and our brand and could result in a shift of consumer preference away from our products. the actions we take to establish and protect our intellectual property rights may not be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as violations of proprietary rights. we may be subject to liability if third parties successfully claim that we infringe on their intellectual property rights. defending infringement claims could be expensive and time-consuming and might result in our entering into costly license agreements. we also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development, use, importation and/or sale of certain products. we take various actions to prevent the unauthorized use and/or disclosure of confidential information. such actions include contractual measures such as entering into non-disclosure and non-compete agreements and providing confidential information awareness training. our controls and efforts to prevent unauthorized use and/or disclosure of confidential information might not always be effective. confidential information that is related to business strategy, new technologies, mergers and acquisitions, unpublished financial results or personal data could be prematurely or inadvertently used and/or disclosed, resulting in a loss of reputation, a decline in our stock price and/or a negative impact on our market position, and could lead to damages, fines, penalties or injunctions. 9 table of contents in addition, the laws of certain countries may not protect or allow enforcement of intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. we may face significant expenses and liability in connection with the protection of our intellectual property rights, including outside the united states, and if we are unable to successfully protect our rights or resolve intellectual property conflicts with others, our business or financial condition may be adversely affected. we are subject to the risk that our licensees may not generate expected sales or maintain the value of our brands. we currently license, and expect to continue licensing, certain of our proprietary rights, such as trademarks or copyrighted material, to third parties. if our licensees fail to successfully market and sell licensed products, or fail to obtain sufficient capital or effectively manage their business operations, customer relationships, labor relationships, supplier relationships or credit risks, it could adversely affect our revenues, both directly from reduced royalties received and indirectly from reduced sales of our other products. we also rely on our licensees to help preserve the value of our brands. although we attempt to protect our brands through approval rights over the design, production processes, quality, packaging, merchandising, distribution, advertising and promotion of our licensed products, we cannot completely control the use of our licensed brands by our licensees. the misuse of a brand by a licensee could have a material adverse effect on that brand and on us. we are subject to data security and privacy risks that could negatively affect our results, operations or reputation. hackers and data thieves are increasingly sophisticated and operate large-scale and complex automated attacks. any breach of our network may result in the loss of valuable business data, misappropriation of our consumers' or employees' personal information or a disruption of our business, which could give rise to unwanted media attention, materially damage our customer relationships and reputation and result in lost sales, fines or lawsuits. in addition, we must comply with increasingly complex and rigorous regulatory standards enacted to protect business and personal data. any failure to comply with these regulatory standards could subject us to legal and reputational risks. misuse of or failure to secure personal information could also result in violation of data privacy laws and regulations, proceedings against the company by governmental entities or others, damage to our reputation and credibility and could have a negative impact on revenues and profits. failure of our contractors or our licensees' contractors to comply with our code of conduct, local laws and other standards could harm our business. we work with hundreds of contractors outside of the united states to manufacture our products, and we also have license agreements that permit unaffiliated parties to manufacture or contract for the manufacture of products using our intellectual property. we require the contractors that directly manufacture our products and our licensees that make products using our intellectual property (including, indirectly, their contract manufacturers) to comply with a code of conduct and other environmental, health and safety standards for the benefit of workers. we also require these contractors to comply with applicable standards for product safety. notwithstanding their contractual obligations, from time to time contractors may not comply with such standards or applicable local law or our licensees may fail to enforce such standards or applicable local law on their contractors. significant or continuing noncompliance with such standards and laws by one or more contractors could harm our reputation or result in a product recall and, as a result, could have an adverse effect on our sales and financial condition. our international operations involve inherent risks which could result in harm to our business. virtually all of our athletic footwear and apparel is manufactured outside of the united states, and the majority of our products are sold outside of the united states. accordingly, we are subject to the risks generally associated with global trade and doing business abroad, which include foreign laws and regulations, varying consumer preferences across geographic regions, political unrest, disruptions or delays in cross-border shipments and changes in economic conditions in countries in which our products are manufactured or where we sell products. in addition, disease outbreaks, terrorist acts and military conflict have increased the risks of doing business abroad. these factors, among others, could affect our ability to manufacture products or procure materials, our ability to import products, our ability to sell products in international markets and our cost of doing business. if any of these or other factors make the conduct of business in a particular country undesirable or impractical, our business could be adversely affected. in addition, many of our imported products are subject to duties, tariffs or quotas that affect the cost and quantity of various types of goods imported into the united states and other countries. any country in which our products are produced or sold may eliminate, adjust or impose new quotas, duties, tariffs, safeguard measures, anti-dumping duties, cargo restrictions to prevent terrorism, restrictions on the transfer of currency, climate change legislation, product safety regulations or other charges or restrictions, any of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. changes in tax laws and unanticipated tax liabilities could adversely affect our effective income tax rate and profitability. we earn a substantial portion of our income in foreign countries, and are subject to the tax laws of those jurisdictions. the company's most significant tax liabilities are incurred in the united states, china and the netherlands. if our capital or financing needs in the u.s. require us to repatriate earnings from foreign jurisdictions above our current levels, our effective income tax rates for the affected periods could be negatively impacted. current economic and political conditions make tax rules in any jurisdiction, including the u.s., subject to significant change. there have been proposals to reform u.s. and foreign tax laws that could significantly impact how u.s. multinational corporations are taxed on foreign earnings. although we cannot predict whether or in what form these proposals will pass, several of the proposals considered, if enacted into law, could have an adverse impact on our income tax expense and cash flows. our effective income tax rate in the future could be adversely affected by a number of factors, including changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws, the outcome of income tax audits in various jurisdictions around the world and any repatriation of non-u.s. earnings for which we have not previously provided for u.s. taxes. 10 table of contents we and our subsidiaries are engaged in a number of intercompany transactions across multiple tax jurisdictions. although we believe that these transactions reflect the accurate economic allocation of profit and that the proper transfer pricing documentation is in place, the profit allocation and transfer pricing terms and conditions may be scrutinized by local tax authorities during an audit and any resulting changes may impact our mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates. portions of our operations are subject to a reduced tax rate or are free of tax under various tax holidays and rulings that expire in whole or in part from time to time. these tax holidays and rulings may be extended when certain conditions are met, or terminated if certain conditions are not met. if the tax holidays and rulings are not extended, or if we fail to satisfy the conditions of the reduced tax rate, then our effective tax rate would increase in the future. we are also subject to the examination of our tax returns by the internal revenue service and other tax authorities. we regularly assess all of these matters to determine the adequacy of our tax provision, which is subject to significant discretion. although we believe our tax provisions are adequate, the final determination of tax audits and any related disputes could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. the results of audits or related disputes could have an adverse effect on our financial statements for the period or periods for which the applicable final determinations are made. if one or more of our counterparty financial institutions default on their obligations to us or fail, we may incur significant losses. as part of our hedging activities, we enter into transactions involving derivative financial instruments, which may include forward contracts, commodity futures contracts, option contracts, collars and swaps with various financial institutions. in addition, we have significant amounts of cash, cash equivalents and other investments on deposit or in accounts with banks or other financial institutions in the united states and abroad. as a result, we are exposed to the risk of default by or failure of counterparty financial institutions. the risk of counterparty default or failure may be heightened during economic downturns and periods of uncertainty in the financial markets. if one of our counterparties were to become insolvent or file for bankruptcy, our ability to recover losses incurred as a result of default or our assets that are deposited or held in accounts with such counterparty may be limited by the counterparty's liquidity or the applicable laws governing the insolvency or bankruptcy proceedings. in the event of default or failure of one or more of our counterparties, we could incur significant losses, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. we rely on a concentrated source base of contract manufacturers to supply a significant portion of our footwear products. nike is supplied by approximately 146 footwear factories located in 14 countries. we do not own or operate any of our own footwear manufacturing facilities and depend upon independent contract manufacturers to manufacture all of the footwear products we sell. in fiscal 2015, five footwear contract manufacturers each accounted for greater than 10% of fiscal 2015 footwear production, and in aggregate accounted for approximately 69% of nike brand footwear production in fiscal 2015. our ability to meet our customers' needs depends on our ability to maintain a steady supply of products from our independent contract manufacturers. if one or more of our significant suppliers were to sever their relationship with us or significantly alter the terms of our relationship, we may not be able to obtain replacement products in a timely manner, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales, financial condition or results of operations. additionally, if any of our primary contract manufacturers fail to make timely shipments, do not meet our quality standards or otherwise fail to deliver us product in accordance with our plans, there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our products are subject to risks associated with overseas sourcing, manufacturing and financing. the principal materials used in our apparel products natural and synthetic fabrics and threads, specialized performance fabrics designed to efficiently wick moisture away from the body, retain heat or repel rain and/or snow as well as plastic and metal hardware are available in countries where our manufacturing takes place. the principal materials used in our footwear products natural and synthetic rubber, plastic compounds, foam cushioning materials, natural and synthetic leather, nylon, canvas and polyurethane films are also locally available to manufacturers. both our apparel and footwear products are dependent upon the ability of our unaffiliated contract manufacturers to locate, train, employ and retain adequate personnel. nike contractors and suppliers buy raw materials and are subject to wage rates that are oftentimes regulated by the governments of the countries in which our products are manufactured. there could be a significant disruption in the supply of fabrics or raw materials from current sources or, in the event of a disruption, our contract manufacturers might not be able to locate alternative suppliers of materials of comparable quality at an acceptable price, or at all. further, our unaffiliated contract manufacturers have experienced and may continue to experience in the future, unexpected increases in work wages, whether government mandated or otherwise and increases in compliance costs due to governmental regulation concerning certain metals used in the manufacturing of our products. in addition, we cannot be certain that our unaffiliated manufacturers will be able to fill our orders in a timely manner. if we experience significant increases in demand, or reductions in the availability of materials, or need to replace an existing manufacturer, there can be no assurance that additional supplies of fabrics or raw materials or additional manufacturing capacity will be available when required on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all, or that any supplier or manufacturer would allocate sufficient capacity to us in order to meet our requirements. in addition, even if we are able to expand existing or find new manufacturing or sources of materials, we may encounter delays in production and added costs as a result of the time it takes to train suppliers and manufacturers in our methods, products, quality control standards and labor, health and safety standards. any delays, interruption or increased costs in labor or wages, or the supply of materials or manufacture of our products could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet retail customer and consumer demand for our products and result in lower revenues and net income both in the short- and long- term. because independent manufacturers make a majority of our products outside of our principal sales markets, our products must be transported by third parties over large geographic distances. delays in the shipment or delivery of our products due to the availability of transportation, work stoppages, port strikes, infrastructure congestion or other factors, and costs and delays associated with consolidating or transitioning between manufacturers, could adversely impact our financial performance. in addition, manufacturing delays or unexpected demand for our products may require us to use faster, but more expensive, transportation methods such as air freight, which could adversely affect our profit margins. the cost of oil is a significant component in manufacturing and transportation costs, so increases in the price of petroleum products can adversely affect our profit margins. 11 table of contents in addition, sojitz america performs significant import-export financing services for the company. during fiscal 2015, sojitz america provided financing and purchasing services for nike brand products sold in certain nike markets including argentina, uruguay, canada, brazil, india, indonesia, the philippines, south africa and thailand (collectively the "sojitz markets"), excluding products produced and sold in the same country. any failure of sojitz america to provide these services or any failure of sojitz america's banks could disrupt our ability to acquire products from our suppliers and to deliver products to our customers in the sojitz markets. such a disruption could result in canceled orders that would adversely affect sales and profitability. our success depends on our global distribution facilities. we distribute our products to customers directly from the factory and through distribution centers located throughout the world. our ability to meet customer expectations, manage inventory, complete sales and achieve objectives for operating efficiencies and growth, particularly in emerging markets, depends on the proper operation of our distribution facilities, the development or expansion of additional distribution capabilities and the timely performance of services by third parties (including those involved in shipping product to and from our distribution facilities). our distribution facilities could be interrupted by information technology problems and disasters such as earthquakes or fires. any significant failure in our distribution facilities could result in an adverse effect on our business. we maintain business interruption insurance, but it may not adequately protect us from adverse effects that could be caused by significant disruptions in our distribution facilities. we rely significantly on information technology to operate our business, including our supply chain and retail operations, and any failure, inadequacy or interruption of that technology could harm our ability to effectively operate our business. we are heavily dependent on information technology systems and networks, including the internet and third-party hosted services ( information technology systems ), across our supply chain, including product design, production, forecasting, ordering, manufacturing, transportation, sales and distribution, as well as for processing financial information for external and internal reporting purposes, retail operations and other business activities. our ability to effectively manage and maintain our inventory and to ship products to customers on a timely basis depends significantly on the reliability of these information technology systems. over a number of years, we have implemented information technology systems in all of the geographical regions in which we operate. our work to integrate and enhance these systems and related processes in our global operations is ongoing. the failure of these systems to operate effectively, including as a result of security breaches, viruses, hackers or other causes, or problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems could cause delays in product fulfillment and reduced efficiency of our operations, could require significant capital investments to remediate the problem, and may have an adverse effect on our reputation, results of operations and financial condition. we also use information technology systems to process financial information and results of operations for internal reporting purposes and to comply with regulatory financial reporting, legal and tax requirements. if our information technology systems suffer severe damage, disruption or shutdown and our business continuity plans do not effectively resolve the issues in a timely manner, we could experience delays in reporting our financial results, which could result in lost revenues and profits, as well as reputational damage. furthermore, we depend on information technology systems and personal data collection and use for digital marketing, digital commerce and the marketing and use of our nike+ products and services. we also engage in electronic communications throughout the world between and among our employees as well as with other third parties, including customers, suppliers, vendors and consumers. our information technology systems are critical to many of our operating activities and our business processes and may be negatively impacted by any service interruption or shutdown. the market for prime real estate is competitive. our ability to effectively obtain real estate to open new retail stores and otherwise conduct our operations, both domestically and internationally, depends on the availability of real estate that meets our criteria for traffic, square footage, co-tenancies, lease economics, demographics and other factors. we also must be able to effectively renew our existing real estate leases. in addition, from time to time, we seek to downsize, consolidate, reposition or close some of our real estate locations, which may require modification of an existing lease. failure to secure adequate new locations or successfully modify leases for existing locations, or failure to effectively manage the profitability of our existing fleet of retail stores, could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. additionally, the economic environment may at times make it difficult to determine the fair market rent of real estate properties domestically and internationally. this could impact the quality of our decisions to exercise lease options at previously negotiated rents and to renew expiring leases at negotiated rents. any adverse effect on the quality of these decisions could impact our ability to retain real estate locations adequate to meet our targets or efficiently manage the profitability of our existing fleet of stores, which could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. extreme weather conditions and natural disasters could negatively impact our operating results and financial condition. extreme weather conditions in the areas in which our retail stores, suppliers, customers, distribution centers and vendors are located could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. moreover, natural disasters such as earthquakes, hurricanes and tsunamis, whether occurring in the united states or abroad, and their related consequences and effects, including energy shortages and public health issues, could disrupt our operations, the operations of our vendors and other suppliers or result in economic instability that may negatively impact our operating results and financial condition. our financial results may be adversely affected if substantial investments in businesses and operations fail to produce expected returns. from time to time, we may invest in technology, business infrastructure, new businesses, product offering and manufacturing innovation and expansion of existing businesses, such as our retail operations, which require substantial cash investments and management attention. we believe cost-effective investments are essential to business growth and profitability. however, significant investments are subject to typical risks and uncertainties inherent in developing a new business or expanding an existing business. the failure of any significant investment to provide expected returns or profitability could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and divert management attention from more profitable business operations. 12 table of contents we are subject to periodic litigation and other regulatory proceedings, which could result in unexpected expense of time and resources. from time to time we are called upon to defend ourselves against lawsuits and regulatory actions relating to our business. due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation and regulatory proceedings, we cannot accurately predict the ultimate outcome of any such proceedings. an unfavorable outcome could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, any significant litigation in the future, regardless of its merits, could divert management's attention from our operations and result in substantial legal fees. we depend on key personnel, the loss of whom would harm our business. our future success will depend in part on the continued service of key executive officers and personnel. the loss of the services of any key individual could harm our business. our future success also depends on our ability to recruit, retain and engage our personnel sufficiently, both to maintain our current business and to execute our strategic initiatives. competition for employees in our industry is intense and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. the sale of a large number of shares of common stock owned or managed by our chairman and related entities could depress the market price of our common stock. as of june 30, 2015, philip h. knight, co-founder and chairman of our board of directors, and swoosh, llc, an entity formed to manage 128,500,000 shares of class a common stock formerly owned by mr. knight, beneficially owned more than 82% of our class a common stock. if on june 30, 2015 all of the aforementioned class a common stock were converted into class b common stock, the commensurate ownership percentage of our class b common stock would be approximately 17.7%. the class a common stock shares are available for resale, subject to the requirements of the u.s. securities laws and the terms of the limited liability company agreement governing swoosh, llc. the sale or prospect of the sale of a substantial number of these shares could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. changes in our credit ratings or macroeconomic conditions may affect our liquidity, increasing borrowing costs and limiting our financing options. our long-term debt is currently rated investment grade by standard &amp; poor's and moody's investors service. if our credit ratings are lowered, borrowing costs for future long-term debt or short-term credit facilities may increase and our financing options, including our access to the unsecured credit market, could be limited. we may also be subject to restrictive covenants that would reduce our flexibility to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, make restricted payments, pledge assets as security, make investments, loans, advances, guarantees and acquisitions, undergo fundamental changes and enter into transactions with affiliates. failure to comply with such covenants could result in a default, and as a result, the commitments of our lenders under our credit agreements may be terminated and the maturity of amounts owed may be accelerated. in addition, macroeconomic conditions, such as increased volatility or disruption in the credit markets, could adversely affect our ability to refinance existing debt. if our internal controls are ineffective, our operating results could be adversely affected. our internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls or fraud. even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in their implementation, our business and operating results could be harmed and we could fail to meet our financial reporting obligations. if our estimates or judgments relating to our critical accounting policies prove to be incorrect, our operating results could be adversely affected. the preparation of financial statements in conformity with u.s. gaap requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. we base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, as provided in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. the results of these estimates form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets, liabilities and equity, and the amount of revenue and expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources. significant assumptions and estimates used in preparing our consolidated financial statements include those related to revenue recognition, allowance for uncollectible accounts receivable, inventories, contingent payments under endorsement contracts, accounting for property, plant and equipment and definite-lived assets and goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets. our operating results may be adversely affected if our assumptions change or if actual circumstances differ from those in our assumptions, which could cause our operating results to fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in the price of our class b common stock. anti-takeover provisions may impair an acquisition of the company or reduce the price of our common stock. there are provisions of our articles of incorporation and oregon law that are intended to protect shareholder interests by providing the board of directors a means to attempt to deny coercive takeover attempts or to negotiate with a potential acquirer in order to obtain more favorable terms. such provisions include a control share acquisition statute, a freeze-out statute, two classes of stock that vote separately on certain issues, and the fact that holders of class a common stock elect three-quarters of the board of directors rounded down to the next whole number. however, such provisions could discourage, delay or prevent an unsolicited merger, acquisition or other change in control of our company that some shareholders might believe to be in their best interests or in which shareholders might receive a premium for their common stock over the prevailing market price. these provisions could also discourage proxy contests for control of the company. 13 table of contents we may fail to meet market expectations, which could cause the price of our stock to decline. our class b common stock is traded publicly, and at any given time various securities analysts follow our financial results and issue reports on us. these reports include information about our historical financial results as well as analysts' estimates of our future performance. analysts' estimates are based upon their own opinions and are often different from our estimates or expectations. if our operating results are below the estimates or expectations of public market analysts and investors, our stock price could decline. in the past, securities class action litigation has been brought against nike and other companies following a decline in the market price of their securities. if our stock price is volatile, we may become involved in this type of litigation in the future. any litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources that are needed to successfully run our business. 14 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 42 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in the normal course of business and consistent with established policies and procedures, we employ a variety of financial instruments to manage exposure to fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies and interest rates. it is our policy to utilize these financial instruments only where necessary to finance our business and manage such exposures; we do not enter into these transactions for trading or speculative purposes. we are exposed to foreign currency fluctuations, primarily as a result of our international sales, product sourcing and funding activities. our foreign exchange risk management program is intended to lessen both the positive and negative effects of currency fluctuations on our consolidated results of operations, financial position and cash flows. we use forward and options contracts to hedge certain anticipated but not yet firmly committed transactions as well as certain firm commitments and the related receivables and payables, including third-party and intercompany transactions. we have, in the past, and may, in the future, also use forward or options contracts to hedge our investment in the net assets of certain international subsidiaries to offset foreign currency translation adjustments related to our net investment in those subsidiaries. where exposures are hedged, our program has the effect of delaying the impact of exchange rate movements on our consolidated financial statements. the timing for hedging exposures, as well as the type and duration of the hedge instruments employed, are guided by our hedging policies and determined based upon the nature of the exposure and prevailing market conditions. typically, the company may enter into hedge contracts starting up to 12 to 24 months in advance of the forecasted transaction and may place incremental hedges up to 100% of the exposure by the time the forecasted transaction occurs. the majority of derivatives outstanding as of may 31, 2015 are designated as foreign currency cash flow hedges, primarily for euro/u.s. dollar, british pound/euro and japanese yen/u.s. dollar currency pairs. see section foreign currency exposures and hedging practices under item 7 for additional detail. our earnings are also exposed to movements in short- and long-term market interest rates. our objective in managing this interest rate exposure is to limit the impact of interest rate changes on earnings and cash flows and to reduce overall borrowing costs. to achieve these objectives, we maintain a mix of commercial paper, bank loans, fixed-rate debt of varying maturities and have entered into receive-fixed, pay-variable interest rate swaps for a portion of our fixed-rate debt as well as pay-fixed, receive-variable forward-starting interest rate swaps for cash outflows of interest payments on future debt. market risk measurement we monitor foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk and related derivatives using a variety of techniques including a review of market value, sensitivity analysis and value-at-risk ( var ). our market-sensitive derivative and other financial instruments are foreign currency forward contracts, foreign currency option contracts, interest rate swaps, intercompany loans denominated in non-functional currencies, fixed interest rate u.s. dollar denominated debt and fixed interest rate japanese yen denominated debt. we use var to monitor the foreign exchange risk of our foreign currency forward and foreign currency option derivative instruments only. the var determines the maximum potential one-day loss in the fair value of these foreign exchange rate-sensitive financial instruments. the var model estimates assume normal market conditions and a 95% confidence level. there are various modeling techniques that can be used in the var computation. our computations are based on interrelationships between currencies and interest rates (a variance/co-variance technique). these interrelationships are a function of foreign exchange currency market changes and interest rate changes over the preceding one year period. the value of foreign currency options does not change on a one-to-one basis with changes in the underlying currency rate. we adjust the potential loss in option value for the estimated sensitivity (the delta and gamma ) to changes in the underlying currency rate. this calculation reflects the impact of foreign currency rate fluctuations on the derivative instruments only and does not include the impact of such rate fluctuations on non-functional currency transactions (such as anticipated transactions, firm commitments, cash balances and accounts and loans receivable and payable), including those which are hedged by these instruments. the var model is a risk analysis tool and does not purport to represent actual losses in fair value that we will incur nor does it consider the potential effect of favorable changes in market rates. it also does not represent the full extent of the possible loss that may occur. actual future gains and losses will differ from those estimated because of changes or differences in market rates and interrelationships, hedging instruments and hedge percentages, timing and other factors. the estimated maximum one-day loss in fair value on our foreign currency sensitive derivative financial instruments, derived using the var model, was $117 million and $50 million at may 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. the var increased year-over-year as a result of an increase in the total notional value of our foreign currency derivative portfolio, a longer weighted average duration on our outstanding trades and an increase in foreign currency volatilities at may 31, 2015. such a hypothetical loss in the fair value of our derivatives would be offset by increases in the value of the underlying transactions being hedged. the average monthly change in the fair values of foreign currency forward and foreign currency option derivative instruments was $205 million and $70 million during fiscal 2015 and fiscal 2014, respectively. the instruments not included in the var are intercompany loans denominated in non-functional currencies, fixed interest rate japanese yen denominated debt, fixed interest rate u.s. dollar denominated debt and interest rate swaps. intercompany loans and related interest amounts are eliminated in consolidation. furthermore, our non-functional currency intercompany loans are substantially hedged against foreign exchange risk through the use of forward contracts, which are included in the var calculation above. therefore, we consider the interest rate and foreign currency market risks associated with our non-functional currency intercompany loans to be immaterial to our consolidated financial position, results from operations and cash flows. during the year ended may 31, 2015, we entered into a series of forward-starting interest rate swap agreements. a forward-starting interest rate swap is an agreement that effectively hedges the variability in future benchmark interest payments attributable to changes in interest rates on the forecasted issuance of fixed-rate debt. we entered into these forward-starting interest rate swaps in order to lock in fixed interest rates on our forecasted issuance of debt. these instruments were designated as cash flow hedges of the variability in the expected cash outflows of interest payments on future debt due to changes in benchmark interest rates. details of third-party debt and interest rate swaps are provided in the table below. the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates. weighted average interest rates for the fixed rate swapped to floating rate debt reflect the effective interest rates at may 31, 2015. 42 table of contents expected maturity date year ending may 31, (dollars in millions) 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 thereafter total fair value foreign exchange risk japanese yen functional currency long-term japanese yen debt fixed rate principal payments $ 5 $ 5 $ 5 $ 5 $ 5 $ 4 $ 29 $ 31 average interest rate 2.4 % 2.4 % 2.4 % 2.4 % 2.4 % 2.4 % 2.4 % interest rate risk japanese yen functional currency long-term japanese yen debt fixed rate principal payments $ 5 $ 5 $ 5 $ 5 $ 5 $ 4 $ 29 $ 31 average interest rate 2.4 % 2.4 % 2.4 % 2.4 % 2.4 % 2.4 % 2.4 % u.s. dollar functional currency long-term u.s. dollar debt fixed rate swapped to floating rate principal payments $ 100 $ $ $ $ $ $ 100 $ 102 average interest rate 0.4 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.4 % long-term u.s. dollar debt fixed rate principal payments $ 1 $ 38 $ 18 $ $ $ 1,000 $ 1,057 $ 1,027 average interest rate 6.4 % 6.2 % 6.8 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 2.9 % 3.1 % anticipated long-term u.s. dollar debt issuance - floating rate swapped to fixed rate notional (1) $ 1,000 $ $ $ $ $ $ 1,000 $ 76 weighted-average fixed rate 2.3 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % weighted-average floating rate 0.3 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % (1) forward-starting interest rate swaps have been included in the maturities category based on when the related hedged forecasted debt issuance and corresponding swap terminations are expected to occur. the fixed interest rate japanese yen denominated debt instruments were issued by and are accounted for by one of our japanese subsidiaries. accordingly, the monthly translation of these instruments, which varies due to changes in foreign exchange rates, is recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income upon consolidation of this subsidiary.risk factors 7 risk factors. we report our nike brand operations based on our internal geographic organization. each nike brand geography operates predominantly in one industry: the design, development, marketing and selling of athletic footwear, apparel, equipment, accessories and services. our reportable operating segments for the nike brand are: north america, western europe, central &amp; eastern europe, greater china, japan and emerging markets. our nike brand direct to consumer operations are managed within each geographic operating segment. converse is also a reportable segment and operates in one industry: the design, marketing, licensing and selling of casual sneakers, apparel and accessories. converse direct to consumer operations, including e-commerce, are reported within the converse operating segment results. united states market for fiscal 2016 , nike brand and converse sales in the united states accounted for approximately 47% of total revenues, compared to 46% for both fiscal 2015 and fiscal 2014 . we sell our nike brand, jordan brand, hurley and converse products to thousands of retail accounts in the united states, including a mix of footwear stores, sporting goods stores, athletic specialty stores, department stores, skate, tennis and golf shops and other retail accounts. in the united states, we utilize nike sales offices to solicit sales as well as independent sales representatives to sell specialty products for golf and skateboarding. during fiscal 2016 , our three largest customers accounted for approximately 25% of sales in the united states. we make substantial use of our futures ordering program, which allows retailers to order five to six months in advance of delivery with the commitment that their orders will be delivered within a set time period at a fixed price. in fiscal 2016 , 84% of our u.s. wholesale footwear shipments were made under the futures program, compared to 87% in fiscal 2015 and 86% in fiscal 2014 . in fiscal 2016 , 66% of our u.s. wholesale apparel shipments were made under the futures program, compared to 67% in fiscal 2015 and 71% in fiscal 2014 . our direct to consumer operations sell nike brand, jordan brand, hurley and converse products to consumers through our e-commerce website, www.nike.com . in addition, our direct to consumer operations sell through the following number of retail stores in the united states: u.s. retail stores number nike brand factory stores 196 nike brand in-line stores, including employee-only stores 34 converse stores (including factory stores) 103 hurley stores (including factory and employee stores) 29 total 362 in the united states, nike has five significant distribution centers located in memphis, tennessee, two of which are owned and three are leased. nike brand apparel and equipment products are also shipped from our leased foothill ranch, california distribution center. converse and hurley products are shipped primarily from leased facilities in ontario, california. smaller leased distribution facilities are located in various parts of the united states. international markets for fiscal 2016 , non-u.s. nike brand and converse sales accounted for 53% of total revenues, compared to 54% for both fiscal 2015 and fiscal 2014 . we sell our products to retail accounts, through our own direct to consumer operations and through a mix of independent distributors, licensees and sales representatives around the world. we sell to thousands of retail accounts and ship products from 42 distribution centers outside of the united states. in many countries and regions, including canada, asia, some latin american countries and europe, we have a futures ordering program for retailers similar to the united states futures ordering program described above. during fiscal 2016 , nike's three largest customers outside of the united states accounted for approximately 13% of total non-u.s. sales. in addition to nike and converse owned e-commerce websites in over 40 countries, our direct to consumer business operates the following number of retail stores outside the united states: non-u.s. retail stores number nike brand factory stores 588 nike brand in-line stores, including employee-only stores 72 converse stores (including factory stores) 23 total 683 2 table of contents international branch offices and subsidiaries of nike are located in argentina, australia, austria, belgium, bermuda, brazil, canada, chile, china, croatia, the czech republic, denmark, finland, france, germany, greece, hong kong, hungary, india, indonesia, ireland, israel, italy, japan, jordan, korea, malaysia, mexico, new zealand, the netherlands, norway, panama, the philippines, poland, portugal, russia, singapore, slovakia, slovenia, south africa, spain, sri lanka, sweden, switzerland, taiwan, thailand, turkey, the united arab emirates, the united kingdom, uruguay and vietnam. significant customer no customer accounted for 10% or more of our worldwide net revenues during fiscal 2016 . orders worldwide futures orders for nike brand athletic footwear and apparel, scheduled for delivery from june through november 2016, were $14.9 billion compared with $13.8 billion for the same period last year. nike brand reported futures include (1) orders from external wholesale customers and (2) internal orders from our dtc in-line stores and e-commerce operations which are reflected at prices that are comparable to prices charged to external wholesale customers. the u.s. dollar futures orders amount is calculated based upon our internal forecast of the actual currency exchange rates under which our revenues will be translated during this period. reported futures orders are not necessarily indicative of our expectation of revenues for this period. this is because the mix of orders can shift between futures and at-once orders and the fulfillment of certain of these futures orders may fall outside of the scheduled time period noted above. in addition, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations as well as differing levels of order cancellations, discounts and returns can cause differences in the comparisons between futures orders and actual revenues. moreover, a portion of our revenue is not derived from futures orders, including sales of at-once and closeout nike brand footwear and apparel, all sales of nike brand equipment, the difference between retail sales and internal orders from our direct to consumer in-line stores and e-commerce operations, and sales from our converse, hurley and nike golf businesses. product research, design and development we believe our research, design and development efforts are key factors in our success. technical innovation in the design and manufacturing process of footwear, apparel and athletic equipment receive continued emphasis as we strive to produce products that help to enhance athletic performance, reduce injury and maximize comfort while reducing waste. in addition to our own staff of specialists in the areas of biomechanics, chemistry, exercise physiology, engineering, industrial design, sustainability and related fields, we also utilize research committees and advisory boards made up of athletes, coaches, trainers, equipment managers, orthopedists, podiatrists and other experts who consult with us and review designs, materials, concepts for product and manufacturing process improvements and compliance with product safety regulations around the world. employee athletes, athletes engaged under sports marketing contracts and other athletes wear-test and evaluate products during the design and development process. as we continue to develop new technologies, we are simultaneously focused on the design of innovative products incorporating such technologies throughout our product categories. using market intelligence and research, our various design teams identify opportunities to leverage new technologies in existing categories responding to consumer preferences. the proliferation of nike air, lunar, zoom, free, flywire, dri-fit, flyknit, flyweave and nike+ technologies through running, nike basketball, the jordan brand, football (soccer), men's training, women's training and sportswear, among others, typifies our dedication to designing innovative products. manufacturing we are supplied by approximately 142 footwear factories located in 15 countries. the largest single footwear factory accounted for approximately 7% of total fiscal 2016 nike brand footwear production. virtually all of our footwear is manufactured outside of the united states by independent contract manufacturers who often operate multiple factories. in fiscal 2016 , contract factories in vietnam, china and indonesia manufactured approximately 44%, 29% and 21% of total nike brand footwear, respectively. we also have manufacturing agreements with independent factories in argentina, india, brazil and mexico to manufacture footwear for sale primarily within those countries. in fiscal 2016 , five footwear contract manufacturers each accounted for greater than 10% of footwear production and in aggregate accounted for approximately 69% of nike brand footwear production. we are supplied by approximately 394 apparel factories located in 39 countries. the largest single apparel factory accounted for approximately 12% of total fiscal 2016 nike brand apparel production. virtually all of our apparel is manufactured outside of the united states by independent contract manufacturers which often operate multiple factories. in fiscal 2016 , contract factories in china, vietnam and indonesia produced approximately 26%, 23% and 9% of total nike brand apparel, respectively. in fiscal 2016 , one apparel contract manufacturer accounted for more than 10% of apparel production, and the top five contract manufacturers in aggregate accounted for approximately 39% of nike brand apparel production. the principal materials used in our footwear products are natural and synthetic rubber, plastic compounds, foam cushioning materials, natural and synthetic leather, nylon, polyester and canvas, as well as polyurethane films used to make nike air-sole cushioning components. during fiscal 2016 , nike ihm, inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of nike, inc., with facilities near beaverton, oregon and in st. charles, missouri, as well as independent contractors in china and vietnam, were our largest suppliers of the air-sole cushioning components used in footwear. the principal materials used in our apparel products are natural and synthetic fabrics and threads (both virgin and recycled); specialized performance fabrics designed to efficiently wick moisture away from the body, retain heat and repel rain and/or snow; and plastic and metal hardware. nike's independent contractors and suppliers buy raw materials for the manufacturing of our footwear, apparel and equipment products. most raw materials are available and purchased by those independent contractors and suppliers in the countries where manufacturing takes place. nike's independent contract manufacturers and suppliers have thus far experienced little difficulty in satisfying raw material requirements for the production of our products. 3 table of contents since 1972, sojitz corporation of america ( sojitz america ), a large japanese trading company and the sole owner of our redeemable preferred stock, has performed significant import-export financing services for us. during fiscal 2016 , sojitz america provided financing and purchasing services for nike brand products sold in certain nike markets including argentina, uruguay, brazil, canada, india, south africa and thailand, excluding products produced and sold in the same country. approximately 6% of nike brand sales occurred in those countries. any failure of sojitz america to provide these services or any failure of sojitz america's banks could disrupt our ability to acquire products from our suppliers and to deliver products to our customers in those markets. such a disruption could result in canceled orders that would adversely affect sales and profitability. however, we believe that any such disruption would be short-term in duration due to the ready availability of alternative sources of financing at competitive rates. our current agreements with sojitz america expire on may 31, 2018 and contain a provision allowing us to extend the agreements to may 31, 2019. international operations and trade our international operations and sources of supply are subject to the usual risks of doing business abroad, such as possible increases in import duties, anti-dumping measures, quotas, safeguard measures, trade restrictions, restrictions on the transfer of funds and, in certain parts of the world, political instability and terrorism. we have not, to date, been materially affected by any such risk, but cannot predict the likelihood of such material effects occurring in the future. in recent years, uncertain global and regional economic conditions have affected international trade and caused a rise in protectionist actions around the world. these trends are affecting many global manufacturing and service sectors, and the footwear and apparel industries, as a whole, are not immune. companies in our industry are facing trade protectionism in many different regions, and in nearly all cases we are working together with industry groups to address trade issues and reduce the impact to the industry, while observing applicable competition laws. notwithstanding our efforts, protectionist measures have resulted in increases in the cost of our products, and additional measures, if implemented, could adversely affect sales and/or profitability for nike as well as the imported footwear and apparel industry as a whole. we monitor protectionist trends and developments throughout the world that may materially impact our industry, and we engage in administrative and judicial processes to mitigate trade restrictions. we are actively monitoring actions that may result in additional anti-dumping measures and could affect our industry. we are also monitoring for and advocating against other impediments that may limit or delay customs clearance for imports of footwear, apparel and equipment. moreover, with respect to trade restrictions targeting china, which represents an important sourcing country and consumer market for us, we are working with a broad coalition of global businesses and trade associations representing a wide variety of sectors to help ensure that any legislation enacted and implemented (i) addresses legitimate and core concerns, (ii) is consistent with international trade rules, and (iii) reflects and considers china's domestic economy and the important role it has in the global economic community. where trade protection measures are implemented, we believe that we have the ability to develop, over a period of time, adequate alternative sources of supply for the products obtained from our present suppliers. if events prevented us from acquiring products from our suppliers in a particular country, our operations could be temporarily disrupted and we could experience an adverse financial impact. however, we believe we could abate any such disruption, and that much of the adverse impact on supply would, therefore, be of a short-term nature, although alternate sources of supply might not be as cost-effective and could have an ongoing adverse impact on profitability. nike advocates for trade liberalization for footwear and apparel in a number of regional and bilateral free trade agreements. the trans-pacific partnership (tpp), if ultimately ratified, has the potential to reduce or eliminate high rates of customs duties for imports into the united states of nike products sourced from tpp countries (primarily footwear and apparel from vietnam and apparel from malaysia). similarly, the european union has concluded a free trade agreement with vietnam that, if approved, could lead to duty reduction or elimination for footwear and apparel. competition the athletic footwear, apparel and equipment industry is highly competitive on a worldwide basis. we compete internationally with a significant number of athletic and leisure footwear companies, athletic and leisure apparel companies, sports equipment companies and large companies having diversified lines of athletic and leisure footwear, apparel and equipment, including adidas, asics, li ning, lululemon athletica, puma, v.f. corporation and under armour, among others. the intense competition and the rapid changes in technology and consumer preferences in the markets for athletic and leisure footwear and apparel and athletic equipment, constitute significant risk factors in our operations. nike is the largest seller of athletic footwear, apparel and equipment in the world. important aspects of competition in this industry are: product attributes such as quality; performance and reliability; new product innovation and development and consumer price/value. consumer connection and affinity for brands and products, developed through marketing and promotion; social media interaction; customer support and service; identification with prominent and influential athletes, coaches, teams, colleges and sports leagues who endorse our brands and use our products and active engagement through sponsored sporting events and clinics. effective sourcing and distribution of products, with attractive merchandising and presentation at retail, both in-store and online. we believe that we are competitive in all of these areas. trademarks and patents we utilize trademarks on nearly all of our products and believe having distinctive marks that are readily identifiable is an important factor in creating a market for our goods, in identifying our brands and the company and in distinguishing our goods from the goods of others. we consider our nike and swoosh design trademarks to be among our most valuable assets and we have registered these trademarks in almost 170 jurisdictions worldwide. in addition, we own many other trademarks that we utilize in marketing our products. we own common law rights in the trade dress of several significant shoe designs and elements. for certain trade dress, we have sought and obtained trademark registrations. we have copyright protection in our design, graphics and other original works. when appropriate, we have sought registrations for this content. we own patents and have a patent license, facilitating our use of air technologies. 4 table of contents we also file and maintain many u.s. and foreign utility patents, as well as many u.s. and foreign design patents protecting components, manufacturing techniques, features and industrial design used in various athletic and leisure footwear and apparel, athletic equipment, digital devices and golf products. these patents expire at various times; patents issued for original applications filed this calendar year in the united states may last until 2031 for design patents and until 2036 for utility patents. we believe our success depends upon our capabilities in areas such as design, research and development, production and marketing rather than exclusively upon our patent and trade secret positions. however, we have followed a policy of filing patent applications for the united states and select foreign countries on inventions, designs and improvements that we deem valuable. we also continue to vigorously protect our trademarks and patents against third-party infringement. employees as of may 31, 2016 , we had approximately 70,700 employees worldwide, including retail and part-time employees. management considers its relationship with employees to be excellent. none of our employees are represented by a union, except for certain employees in the emerging markets geography, where local law requires those employees to be represented by a trade union. also, in some countries outside of the united states, local laws require employee representation by works councils (which may be entitled to information and consultation on certain company decisions) or by organizations similar to a union. in certain european countries, we are required by local law to enter into and/or comply with industry-wide or national collective bargaining agreements. nike has never experienced a material interruption of operations due to labor disagreements. executive officers of the registrant the executive officers of nike, inc. as of july 15, 2016 are as follows: mark g. parker, chairman, president and chief executive officer mr. parker, 60, was appointed president and chief executive officer in january 2006 and named chairman of the board in june 2016. he has been employed by nike since 1979 with primary responsibilities in product research, design and development, marketing and brand management. mr. parker was appointed divisional vice president in charge of product development in 1987, corporate vice president in 1989, general manager in 1993, vice president of global footwear in 1998 and president of the nike brand in 2001. chris l. abston, vice president and corporate controller mr. abston, 53, joined nike in 2015 from wal-mart stores, inc., where he served as vice president, global controls and governance since february 2015. prior to that he was vice president and controller of walmart international from february 2013 to january 2015, responsible for the oversight of international accounting and reporting, and vice president and assistant controller of wal-mart stores, inc. from may 2011 to january 2013. before joining wal-mart, mr. abston spent 25 years in public accounting with ernst &amp; young llp, most recently leading its strategic growth markets practice as a partner in the dallas office. david j. ayre, executive vice president, global human resources mr. ayre, 56, joined nike as vice president, global human resources in 2007. prior to joining nike, he held a number of senior human resource positions with pepsico, inc. since 1990, most recently as head of talent and performance rewards. andrew campion, executive vice president and chief financial officer mr. campion, 44, joined nike in 2007 as vice president of global planning and development, leading strategic and financial planning. he was appointed chief financial officer of the nike brand in 2010, responsible for leading all aspects of financial management for the company's flagship brand. in 2014, he was appointed senior vice president, strategy, finance and investor relations in addition to his role as chief financial officer of nike brand. mr. campion assumed the role of executive vice president and chief financial officer in august 2015. prior to joining nike, he held leadership roles in strategic planning, mergers and acquisitions, financial planning and analysis, operations and planning, investor relations and tax at the walt disney company from 1996 to 2007. trevor a. edwards, president, nike brand mr. edwards, 53, joined nike in 1992. he was appointed marketing manager, strategic accounts for foot locker in 1993, director of marketing for the americas in 1995, director of marketing for europe in 1997, vice president, marketing for europe, middle east and africa in 1999 and vice president, u.s. brand marketing in 2000. mr. edwards was appointed corporate vice president, global brand management in 2002, vice president, global brand and category management in 2006 and president, nike brand in 2013. prior to nike, mr. edwards was with the colgate-palmolive company. jeanne p. jackson, president &amp; strategic advisor ms. jackson, 64, joined nike in 2009. she was appointed president &amp; strategic advisor in june 2016. she was appointed president, product and merchandising in 2013 and president, direct to consumer in 2009. ms. jackson also served as a member of the nike, inc. board of directors from 2001 through 2009. she founded and served as chief executive officer of msp capital, a private investment company, from 2002 to 2009. ms. jackson was chief executive officer of walmart.com from march 2000 to january 2002. she was with gap, inc., as president and chief executive officer of banana republic from 1995 to 2000, also serving as chief executive officer of gap, inc. direct from 1998 to 2000. since 1978, she has held various retail management positions with victoria's secret, the walt disney company, saks fifth avenue and federated department stores. hilary k. krane, executive vice president, chief administrative officer and general counsel ms. krane, 52, joined nike as vice president and general counsel in april 2010. in 2011, her responsibilities expanded and she became vice president, general counsel and corporate affairs. ms. krane was appointed executive vice president, chief administrative officer and general counsel in 2013. prior to joining nike, ms. krane was general counsel and senior vice president for corporate affairs at levi strauss &amp; co. from 2006 to 2010. from 1996 to 2006, she was a partner and assistant general counsel at pricewaterhousecoopers llp. john f. slusher, executive vice president, global sports marketing mr. slusher, 47, has been employed by nike since 1998 with primary responsibilities in global sports marketing. mr. slusher was appointed director of sports marketing for the asia pacific and americas in 2006, divisional vice president of asia pacific &amp; americas sports marketing in september 2007 and vice president, global sports marketing in november 2007. prior to joining nike, mr. slusher was an attorney at the law firm of o'melveny &amp; myers from 1995 to 1998. michael spillane, president, product and merchandising mr. spillane, 56, joined nike in 2007. he was appointed president, product and merchandising in 2016. he has served the company in various roles including vice president and general manager of greater china, chief executive officer of umbro and converse and most recently as vice president and general manager of footwear. prior to joining nike, mr. spillane held leadership roles at polartec, maiden mills industries, inc. and tommy hilfiger licensing, llc. 5 table of contents eric d. sprunk, chief operating officer mr. sprunk, 52, joined nike in 1993. he was appointed finance director and general manager of the americas in 1994, finance director for nike europe in 1995, regional general manager of nike europe footwear in 1998 and vice president &amp; general manager of the americas in 2000. mr. sprunk was appointed vice president of global footwear in 2001, vice president of merchandising and product in 2009 and chief operating officer in 2013. prior to joining nike, mr. sprunk was a certified public accountant with price waterhouse from 1987 to 1993. 6 table of contents item 1a. risk factors special note regarding forward-looking statements and analyst reports certain written and oral statements, other than purely historic information, including estimates, projections, statements relating to nike's business plans, objectives and expected operating results and the assumptions upon which those statements are based, made or incorporated by reference from time to time by nike or its representatives in this report, other reports, filings with the sec, press releases, conferences or otherwise, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended. forward-looking statements include, without limitation, any statement that may predict, forecast, indicate or imply future results, performance or achievements, and may contain the words believe, anticipate, expect, estimate, project, will be, will continue, will likely result or words or phrases of similar meaning. forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties which may cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. the risks and uncertainties are detailed from time to time in reports filed by nike with the sec, including reports filed on forms 8-k, 10-q and 10-k, and include, among others, the following: international, national and local general economic and market conditions; the size and growth of the overall athletic footwear, apparel and equipment markets; intense competition among designers, marketers, distributors and sellers of athletic footwear, apparel and equipment for consumers and endorsers; demographic changes; changes in consumer preferences; popularity of particular designs, categories of products and sports; seasonal and geographic demand for nike products; difficulties in anticipating or forecasting changes in consumer preferences, consumer demand for nike products and the various market factors described above; difficulties in implementing, operating and maintaining nike's increasingly complex information systems and controls, including, without limitation, the systems related to demand and supply planning and inventory control; interruptions in data and information technology systems; consumer data security; fluctuations and difficulty in forecasting operating results, including, without limitation, the fact that advance futures orders may not be indicative of future revenues due to changes in shipment timing, the changing mix of futures and at-once orders, and discounts, order cancellations and returns; the ability of nike to sustain, manage or forecast its growth and inventories; the size, timing and mix of purchases of nike's products; increases in the cost of materials, labor and energy used to manufacture products; new product development and introduction; the ability to secure and protect trademarks, patents and other intellectual property; product performance and quality; customer service; adverse publicity; the loss of significant customers or suppliers; dependence on distributors and licensees; business disruptions; increased costs of freight and transportation to meet delivery deadlines; increases in borrowing costs due to any decline in nike's debt ratings; changes in business strategy or development plans; general risks associated with doing business outside the united states, including, without limitation, exchange rate fluctuations, import duties, tariffs, quotas, political and economic instability and terrorism; changes in government regulations; the impact of, including business and legal developments relating to, climate change, natural disasters, liability and other claims asserted against nike; the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel; the effects of nike's decision to invest in or divest of businesses and other factors referenced or incorporated by reference in this report and other reports. the risks included here are not exhaustive. other sections of this report may include additional factors which could adversely affect nike's business and financial performance. moreover, nike operates in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. new risks emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risks, nor can it assess the impact of all such risks on nike's business or the extent to which any risk, or combination of risks, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. investors should also be aware that while nike does, from time to time, communicate with securities analysts, it is against nike's policy to disclose to them any material non-public information or other confidential commercial information. accordingly, shareholders should not assume that nike agrees with any statement or report issued by any analyst irrespective of the content of the statement or report. furthermore, nike has a policy against issuing or confirming financial forecasts or projections issued by others. thus, to the extent that reports issued by securities analysts contain any projections, forecasts or opinions, such reports are not the responsibility of nike. our products face intense competition. nike is a consumer products company and the relative popularity of various sports and fitness activities and changing design trends affect the demand for our products. the athletic footwear, apparel and equipment industry is highly competitive both in the united states and worldwide. we compete internationally with a significant number of athletic and leisure footwear companies, athletic and leisure apparel companies, sports equipment companies and large companies having diversified lines of athletic and leisure footwear, apparel and equipment. we also compete with other companies for the production capacity of independent manufacturers that produce our products. product offerings, technologies, marketing expenditures (including expenditures for advertising and endorsements), pricing, costs of production, customer service and social media presence are areas of intense competition. this, in addition to rapid changes in technology and consumer preferences in the markets for athletic and leisure footwear and apparel and athletic equipment, constitute significant risk factors in our operations. if we do not adequately and timely anticipate and respond to our competitors, our costs may increase or the consumer demand for our products may decline significantly. failure to maintain our reputation and brand image could negatively impact our business. our iconic brands have worldwide recognition, and our success depends on our ability to maintain and enhance our brand image and reputation. maintaining, promoting and growing our brands will depend on our design and marketing efforts, including advertising and consumer campaigns, product innovation and product quality. our commitment to product innovation and quality and our continuing investment in design (including materials) and marketing may not have the desired impact on our brand image and reputation. we could be adversely impacted if we fail to achieve any of these objectives or if the reputation or image of any of our brands is tarnished or receives negative publicity. in addition, adverse publicity about regulatory or legal action against us, or by us, could damage our reputation and brand image, undermine consumer confidence in us and reduce long-term demand for our products, even if the regulatory or legal action is unfounded or not material to our operations. in addition, our success in maintaining, extending and expanding our brand image depends on our ability to adapt to a rapidly changing media environment, including our increasing reliance on social media and digital dissemination of advertising campaigns. negative posts or comments about us on social networking websites could seriously damage our reputation and brand image. if we do not maintain, extend and expand our brand image, then our product sales, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 7 table of contents if we are unable to anticipate consumer preferences and develop new products, we may not be able to maintain or increase our revenues and profits. our success depends on our ability to identify, originate and define product trends as well as to anticipate, gauge and react to changing consumer demands in a timely manner. however, lead times for many of our products may make it more difficult for us to respond rapidly to new or changing product trends or consumer preferences. all of our products are subject to changing consumer preferences that cannot be predicted with certainty. our new products may not receive consumer acceptance as consumer preferences could shift rapidly to different types of performance products or away from these types of products altogether, and our future success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and respond to these changes. if we fail to anticipate accurately and respond to trends and shifts in consumer preferences by adjusting the mix of existing product offerings, developing new products, designs, styles and categories, and influencing sports and fitness preferences through aggressive marketing, we could experience lower sales, excess inventories or lower profit margins, any of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. in addition, we market our products globally through a diverse spectrum of advertising and promotional programs and campaigns, including social media and online advertising. if we do not successfully market our products or if advertising and promotional costs increase, these factors could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we rely on technical innovation and high-quality products to compete in the market for our products. technical innovation and quality control in the design and manufacturing process of footwear, apparel and athletic equipment is essential to the commercial success of our products. research and development plays a key role in technical innovation. we rely upon specialists in the fields of biomechanics, chemistry, exercise physiology, engineering, industrial design, sustainability and related fields, as well as research committees and advisory boards made up of athletes, coaches, trainers, equipment managers, orthopedists, podiatrists and other experts to develop and test cutting edge performance products. while we strive to produce products that help to enhance athletic performance, reduce injury and maximize comfort, if we fail to introduce technical innovation in our products, consumer demand for our products could decline, and if we experience problems with the quality of our products, we may incur substantial expense to remedy the problems. failure to continue to obtain or maintain high-quality endorsers of our products could harm our business. we establish relationships with professional athletes, sports teams and leagues to develop, evaluate and promote our products, as well as establish product authenticity with consumers. however, as competition in our industry has increased, the costs associated with establishing and retaining such sponsorships and other relationships have increased. if we are unable to maintain our current associations with professional athletes, sports teams and leagues, or to do so at a reasonable cost, we could lose the on-field authenticity associated with our products, and we may be required to modify and substantially increase our marketing investments. as a result, our brands, net revenues, expenses and profitability could be harmed. furthermore, if certain endorsers were to stop using our products contrary to their endorsement agreements, our business could be adversely affected. in addition, actions taken by athletes, teams or leagues associated with our products that harm the reputations of those athletes, teams or leagues, could also seriously harm our brand image with consumers and, as a result, could have an adverse effect on our sales and financial condition. in addition, poor performance by our endorsers, a failure to continue to correctly identify promising athletes to use and endorse our products or a failure to enter into cost-effective endorsement arrangements with prominent athletes and sports organizations could adversely affect our brand, sales and profitability. currency exchange rate fluctuations could result in lower revenues, higher costs and decreased margins and earnings. a majority of our products are manufactured and sold outside of the united states. as a result, we conduct purchase and sale transactions in various currencies, which increases our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates globally. additionally, there has been, and may continue to be, volatility in currency exchange rates as a result of the united kingdom's june 23, 2016 referendum in which voters approved the united kingdom's exit from the european union, commonly referred to as brexit. our international revenues and expenses generally are derived from sales and operations in foreign currencies, and these revenues and expenses could be affected by currency fluctuations, specifically amounts recorded in foreign currencies and translated into u.s. dollars for consolidated financial reporting, as weakening of foreign currencies relative to the u.s. dollar adversely affects the u.s. dollar value of the company's foreign currency-denominated sales and earnings. currency exchange rate fluctuations could also disrupt the business of the independent manufacturers that produce our products by making their purchases of raw materials more expensive and more difficult to finance. foreign currency fluctuations have adversely affected and could continue to have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we may hedge certain foreign currency exposures to lessen and delay, but not to completely eliminate, the effects of foreign currency fluctuations on our financial results. since the hedging activities are designed to lessen volatility, they not only reduce the negative impact of a stronger u.s. dollar or other trading currency, but they also reduce the positive impact of a weaker u.s. dollar or other trading currency. our future financial results could be significantly affected by the value of the u.s. dollar in relation to the foreign currencies in which we conduct business. the degree to which our financial results are affected for any given time period will depend in part upon our hedging activities. 8 table of contents global economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. the uncertain state of the global economy continues to impact businesses around the world, most acutely in emerging markets and developing economies. if global economic and financial market conditions do not improve or deteriorate, the following factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition: slower consumer spending may result in reduced demand for our products, reduced orders from retailers for our products, order cancellations, lower revenues, higher discounts, increased inventories and lower gross margins. in the future, we may be unable to access financing in the credit and capital markets at reasonable rates in the event we find it desirable to do so. we conduct transactions in various currencies, which increases our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar. continued volatility in the markets and exchange rates for foreign currencies and contracts in foreign currencies could have a significant impact on our reported operating results and financial condition. continued volatility in the availability and prices for commodities and raw materials we use in our products and in our supply chain (such as cotton or petroleum derivatives) could have a material adverse effect on our costs, gross margins and profitability. if retailers of our products experience declining revenues or experience difficulty obtaining financing in the capital and credit markets to purchase our products, this could result in reduced orders for our products, order cancellations, late retailer payments, extended payment terms, higher accounts receivable, reduced cash flows, greater expense associated with collection efforts and increased bad debt expense. if retailers of our products experience severe financial difficulty, some may become insolvent and cease business operations, which could negatively impact the sale of our products to consumers. if contract manufacturers of our products or other participants in our supply chain experience difficulty obtaining financing in the capital and credit markets to purchase raw materials or to finance capital equipment and other general working capital needs, it may result in delays or non-delivery of shipments of our products. our business is affected by seasonality, which could result in fluctuations in our operating results. we experience moderate fluctuations in aggregate sales volume during the year. historically, revenues in the first and fourth fiscal quarters have slightly exceeded those in the second and third fiscal quarters. however, the mix of product sales may vary considerably from time to time as a result of changes in seasonal and geographic demand for particular types of footwear, apparel and equipment and in connection with the timing of significant sporting events, including without limitation the olympics and the european football championship. in addition, our customers may cancel orders, change delivery schedules or change the mix of products ordered with minimal notice. as a result, we may not be able to accurately predict our quarterly sales. accordingly, our results of operations are likely to fluctuate significantly from period to period. this seasonality, along with other factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions, changes in consumer preferences, weather conditions, availability of import quotas, transportation disruptions and currency exchange rate fluctuations, could adversely affect our business and cause our results of operations to fluctuate. our operating margins are also sensitive to a number of additional factors that are beyond our control, including manufacturing and transportation costs, shifts in product sales mix and geographic sales trends, all of which we expect to continue. results of operations in any period should not be considered indicative of the results to be expected for any future period. futures orders may not be an accurate indication of our future revenues. we make substantial use of our futures ordering program, which allows retailers to order five to six months in advance of delivery with the commitment that their orders will be delivered within a set period of time at a fixed price. our futures ordering program allows us to minimize the amount of products we hold in inventory, purchasing costs, the time necessary to fill customer orders and the risk of non-delivery. we report changes in futures orders in our periodic financial reports. although we believe futures orders are an important indicator of our future revenues, reported futures orders are not necessarily indicative of our expectation of revenues for any future period. this is due to year-over-year changes in shipment timing, changes in the mix of orders between futures and at-once orders and because the fulfillment of certain orders may fall outside of the schedule noted above. in addition, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, as well as differing levels of order cancellations, discounts and returns can cause differences in the comparisons between futures orders and actual revenues. moreover, a portion of our revenue is not derived from futures orders, including sales of at-once and closeout nike brand footwear and apparel, all sales of nike brand equipment, the difference between retail sales and internal orders from our direct to consumer in-line stores and e-commerce operations, and sales from converse, nike golf and hurley. our futures ordering program does not prevent excess inventories or inventory shortages, which could result in decreased operating margins, reduced cash flows and harm to our business. we purchase products from manufacturers outside of our futures ordering program and in advance of customer orders, which we hold in inventory and resell to customers. there is a risk we may be unable to sell excess products ordered from manufacturers. inventory levels in excess of customer demand may result in inventory write-downs, and the sale of excess inventory at discounted prices could significantly impair our brand image and have an adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. conversely, if we underestimate consumer demand for our products or if our manufacturers fail to supply products we require at the time we need them, we may experience inventory shortages. inventory shortages might delay shipments to customers, negatively impact retailer and distributor relationships and diminish brand loyalty. the difficulty in forecasting demand also makes it difficult to estimate our future results of operations, financial condition and cash flows from period to period. a failure to accurately predict the level of demand for our products could adversely affect our net revenues and net income, and we are unlikely to forecast such effects with any certainty in advance. 9 table of contents we may be adversely affected by the financial health of our customers. we extend credit to our customers based on an assessment of a customer's financial condition, generally without requiring collateral. to assist in the scheduling of production and the shipping of seasonal products, we offer customers the ability to place orders five to six months ahead of delivery under our futures ordering program. these advance orders may be canceled, and the risk of cancellation may increase when dealing with financially unstable retailers or retailers struggling with economic uncertainty. in the past, some customers have experienced financial difficulties up to and including bankruptcies, which have had an adverse effect on our sales, our ability to collect on receivables and our financial condition. when the retail economy weakens, retailers may be more cautious with orders. a slowing economy in our key markets could adversely affect the financial health of our customers, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. in addition, product sales are dependent in part on high quality merchandising and an appealing store environment to attract consumers, which requires continuing investments by retailers. retailers that experience financial difficulties may fail to make such investments or delay them, resulting in lower sales and orders for our products. consolidation of retailers or concentration of retail market share among a few retailers may increase and concentrate our credit risk and impair our ability to sell products. the athletic footwear, apparel and equipment retail markets in some countries are dominated by a few large athletic footwear, apparel and equipment retailers with many stores. these retailers have in the past increased their market share and may continue to do so in the future by expanding through acquisitions and construction of additional stores. these situations concentrate our credit risk with a relatively small number of retailers, and, if any of these retailers were to experience a shortage of liquidity, it would increase the risk that their outstanding payables to us may not be paid. in addition, increasing market share concentration among one or a few retailers in a particular country or region increases the risk that if any one of them substantially reduces their purchases of our products, we may be unable to find a sufficient number of other retail outlets for our products to sustain the same level of sales and revenues. our direct to consumer operations have required and will continue to require a substantial investment and commitment of resources and are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties. our direct to consumer stores have required substantial fixed investment in equipment and leasehold improvements, information systems, inventory and personnel. we have entered into substantial operating lease commitments for retail space. certain stores have been designed and built to serve as high-profile venues to promote brand awareness and marketing activities. because of their unique design elements, locations and size, these stores require substantially more investment than other stores. due to the high fixed-cost structure associated with our direct to consumer operations, a decline in sales or the closure or poor performance of individual or multiple stores could result in significant lease termination costs, write-offs of equipment and leasehold improvements and employee-related costs. many factors unique to retail operations, some of which are beyond the company's control, pose risks and uncertainties. risks include, but are not limited to: credit card fraud; mismanagement of existing retail channel partners; and inability to manage costs associated with store construction and operation. in addition, extreme weather conditions in the areas in which our stores are located could adversely affect our business. if the technology-based systems that give our customers the ability to shop with us online do not function effectively, our operating results, as well as our ability to grow our e-commerce business globally, could be materially adversely affected. many of our customers shop with us through our e-commerce website and mobile commerce applications. increasingly, customers are using tablets and smart phones to shop online with us and with our competitors and to do comparison shopping. we are increasingly using social media and proprietary mobile applications to interact with our customers and as a means to enhance their shopping experience. any failure on our part to provide attractive, effective, reliable, user-friendly e-commerce platforms that offer a wide assortment of merchandise with rapid delivery options and that continually meet the changing expectations of online shoppers could place us at a competitive disadvantage, result in the loss of e-commerce and other sales, harm our reputation with customers, have a material adverse impact on the growth of our e-commerce business globally and could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. risks specific to our e-commerce business also include diversion of sales from our and our retailers' brick and mortar stores, difficulty in recreating the in-store experience through direct channels and liability for online content. our failure to successfully respond to these risks might adversely affect sales in our e-commerce business, as well as damage our reputation and brands. failure to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights could adversely affect our business. we believe that our intellectual property rights are important to our brand, our success and our competitive position. we periodically discover products that are counterfeit reproductions of our products or that otherwise infringe on our intellectual property rights. if we are unsuccessful in enforcing our intellectual property, continued sales of these products could adversely affect our sales and our brand and could result in a shift of consumer preference away from our products. the actions we take to establish and protect our intellectual property rights may not be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as violations of proprietary rights. we may be subject to liability if third parties successfully claim that we infringe on their intellectual property rights. defending infringement claims could be expensive and time-consuming and might result in our entering into costly license agreements. we also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development, use, importation and/or sale of certain products. we take various actions to prevent the unauthorized use and/or disclosure of confidential information. such actions include contractual measures such as entering into non-disclosure and non-compete agreements and providing confidential information awareness training. our controls and efforts to prevent unauthorized use and/or disclosure of confidential information might not always be effective. confidential information that is related to business strategy, new technologies, mergers and acquisitions, unpublished financial results or personal data could be prematurely or inadvertently used and/or disclosed, resulting in a loss of reputation, a decline in our stock price and/or a negative impact on our market position, and could lead to damages, fines, penalties or injunctions. 10 table of contents in addition, the laws of certain countries may not protect or allow enforcement of intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. we may face significant expenses and liability in connection with the protection of our intellectual property rights, including outside the united states, and if we are unable to successfully protect our rights or resolve intellectual property conflicts with others, our business or financial condition may be adversely affected. we are subject to the risk that our licensees may not generate expected sales or maintain the value of our brands. we currently license, and expect to continue licensing, certain of our proprietary rights, such as trademarks or copyrighted material, to third parties. if our licensees fail to successfully market and sell licensed products, or fail to obtain sufficient capital or effectively manage their business operations, customer relationships, labor relationships, supplier relationships or credit risks, it could adversely affect our revenues, both directly from reduced royalties received and indirectly from reduced sales of our other products. we also rely on our licensees to help preserve the value of our brands. although we attempt to protect our brands through approval rights over the design, production processes, quality, packaging, merchandising, distribution, advertising and promotion of our licensed products, we cannot completely control the use of our licensed brands by our licensees. the misuse of a brand by a licensee could have a material adverse effect on that brand and on us. we are subject to data security and privacy risks that could negatively affect our results, operations or reputation. in addition to our own sensitive and proprietary business information, we collect transactional and personal information about our customers and users of our digital experiences, which include online distribution channels and product engagement and personal fitness applications. hackers and data thieves are increasingly sophisticated and operate large-scale and complex automated attacks. any breach of our network may result in the loss of valuable business data, misappropriation of our consumers', users' or employees' personal information or a disruption of our business, which could give rise to unwanted media attention, materially damage our consumers, customer relationships and our reputation and result in lost sales, lost users, fines, or lawsuits. we also may need to expend significant resources to protect against, respond to and/or redress problems caused by any breach. in addition, we must comply with increasingly complex and rigorous regulatory standards enacted to protect business and personal data. compliance with existing and proposed laws and regulations can be costly, and any failure to comply with these regulatory standards could subject us to legal and reputational risks. misuse of or failure to secure personal information could also result in violation of data privacy laws and regulations, proceedings against the company by governmental entities or others, damage to our reputation and credibility and could have a negative impact on revenues and profits. failure of our contractors or our licensees' contractors to comply with our code of conduct, local laws and other standards could harm our business. we work with hundreds of contractors outside of the united states to manufacture our products, and we also have license agreements that permit unaffiliated parties to manufacture or contract for the manufacture of products using our intellectual property. we require the contractors that directly manufacture our products and our licensees that make products using our intellectual property (including, indirectly, their contract manufacturers) to comply with a code of conduct and other environmental, health and safety standards for the benefit of workers. we also require these contractors to comply with applicable standards for product safety. notwithstanding their contractual obligations, from time to time contractors may not comply with such standards or applicable local law or our licensees may fail to enforce such standards or applicable local law on their contractors. significant or continuing noncompliance with such standards and laws by one or more contractors could harm our reputation or result in a product recall and, as a result, could have an adverse effect on our sales and financial condition. our international operations involve inherent risks which could result in harm to our business. virtually all of our athletic footwear and apparel is manufactured outside of the united states, and the majority of our products are sold outside of the united states. accordingly, we are subject to the risks generally associated with global trade and doing business abroad, which include foreign laws and regulations, varying consumer preferences across geographic regions, political unrest, disruptions or delays in cross-border shipments and changes in economic conditions in countries in which our products are manufactured or where we sell products. this includes, for example, the uncertainty surrounding the implementation and effect of brexit, including changes to the legal and regulatory framework that apply to the united kingdom and its relationship with the european union. in addition, disease outbreaks, terrorist acts and military conflict have increased the risks of doing business abroad. these factors, among others, could affect our ability to manufacture products or procure materials, our ability to import products, our ability to sell products in international markets and our cost of doing business. if any of these or other factors make the conduct of business in a particular country undesirable or impractical, our business could be adversely affected. in addition, many of our imported products are subject to duties, tariffs or quotas that affect the cost and quantity of various types of goods imported into the united states and other countries. any country in which our products are produced or sold may eliminate, adjust or impose new quotas, duties, tariffs, safeguard measures, anti-dumping duties, cargo restrictions to prevent terrorism, restrictions on the transfer of currency, climate change legislation, product safety regulations or other charges or restrictions, any of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we could be subject to changes in tax rates, adoption of new tax laws or additional tax liabilities. we are subject to the tax laws in the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. current economic and political conditions make tax rules in any jurisdiction, including the united states, subject to significant change. there have been proposals to reform u.s. and foreign tax laws that could significantly impact how u.s. multinational corporations are taxed on foreign earnings. although we cannot predict whether or in what form these proposals will pass, several of the proposals considered, if enacted into law, could have an adverse impact on our income tax expense and cash flows. we earn a substantial portion of our income in foreign countries and are subject to the tax laws of those jurisdictions. if our capital or financing needs in the united states require us to repatriate earnings from foreign jurisdictions above our current levels, our effective income tax rates for the affected periods could be negatively impacted. 11 table of contents portions of our operations are subject to a reduced tax rate or are free of tax under various tax holidays and rulings that expire in whole or in part from time to time. these tax holidays and rulings may be extended when certain conditions are met, or terminated if certain conditions are not met. if the tax holidays and rulings are not extended, or if we fail to satisfy the conditions of the reduced tax rate, our future effective income tax rate would increase in the future. we are also subject to the examination of our tax returns by the united states internal revenue service ( irs ) and other tax authorities. we regularly assess the likelihood of an adverse outcome resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of its provision for income taxes. although we believe our tax provisions are adequate, the final determination of tax audits and any related disputes could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. the results of audits or related disputes could have an adverse effect on our financial statements for the period or periods for which the applicable final determinations are made. for example, the irs has assessed additional tax liabilities for 2011 and 2012 related to a foreign tax credit matter. we are currently contesting the matter in u.s. tax court. in addition to the risk of additional tax for these years, if this litigation is adversely determined and the irs was to seek similar adjustments in subsequent years, we could be subject to significant additional tax liabilities. additionally, we and our subsidiaries are engaged in a number of intercompany transactions across multiple tax jurisdictions. although we believe we have clearly reflected the economics of these transactions and the proper local transfer pricing documentation is in place, tax authorities may propose and sustain adjustments that could result in changes that may impact our mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates. if one or more of our counterparty financial institutions default on their obligations to us or fail, we may incur significant losses. as part of our hedging activities, we enter into transactions involving derivative financial instruments, which may include forward contracts, commodity futures contracts, option contracts, collars and swaps with various financial institutions. in addition, we have significant amounts of cash, cash equivalents and other investments on deposit or in accounts with banks or other financial institutions in the united states and abroad. as a result, we are exposed to the risk of default by or failure of counterparty financial institutions. the risk of counterparty default or failure may be heightened during economic downturns and periods of uncertainty in the financial markets. if one of our counterparties were to become insolvent or file for bankruptcy, our ability to recover losses incurred as a result of default or our assets that are deposited or held in accounts with such counterparty may be limited by the counterparty's liquidity or the applicable laws governing the insolvency or bankruptcy proceedings. in the event of default or failure of one or more of our counterparties, we could incur significant losses, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. we rely on a concentrated source base of contract manufacturers to supply a significant portion of our footwear products. nike is supplied by approximately 142 footwear factories located in 15 countries. we do not own or operate any of our own footwear manufacturing facilities and depend upon independent contract manufacturers to manufacture all of the footwear products we sell. in fiscal 2016 , five footwear contract manufacturers each accounted for greater than 10% of fiscal 2016 footwear production and in aggregate accounted for approximately 69% of nike brand footwear production in fiscal 2016 . our ability to meet our customers' needs depends on our ability to maintain a steady supply of products from our independent contract manufacturers. if one or more of our significant suppliers were to sever their relationship with us or significantly alter the terms of our relationship, we may not be able to obtain replacement products in a timely manner, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales, financial condition or results of operations. additionally, if any of our primary contract manufacturers fail to make timely shipments, do not meet our quality standards or otherwise fail to deliver us product in accordance with our plans, there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our products are subject to risks associated with overseas sourcing, manufacturing and financing. the principal materials used in our apparel products natural and synthetic fabrics and threads, specialized performance fabrics designed to efficiently wick moisture away from the body, retain heat or repel rain and/or snow as well as plastic and metal hardware are available in countries where our manufacturing takes place. the principal materials used in our footwear products natural and synthetic rubber, plastic compounds, foam cushioning materials, natural and synthetic leather, natural and synthetic fabrics and threads, nylon, canvas and polyurethane films are also locally available to manufacturers. both our apparel and footwear products are dependent upon the ability of our unaffiliated contract manufacturers to locate, train, employ and retain adequate personnel. nike contractors and suppliers buy raw materials and are subject to wage rates that are oftentimes regulated by the governments of the countries in which our products are manufactured. there could be a significant disruption in the supply of fabrics or raw materials from current sources or, in the event of a disruption, our contract manufacturers might not be able to locate alternative suppliers of materials of comparable quality at an acceptable price or at all. further, our unaffiliated contract manufacturers have experienced and may continue to experience in the future, unexpected increases in work wages, whether government mandated or otherwise and increases in compliance costs due to governmental regulation concerning certain metals used in the manufacturing of our products. in addition, we cannot be certain that our unaffiliated manufacturers will be able to fill our orders in a timely manner. if we experience significant increases in demand, or reductions in the availability of materials, or need to replace an existing manufacturer, there can be no assurance that additional supplies of fabrics or raw materials or additional manufacturing capacity will be available when required on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all, or that any supplier or manufacturer would allocate sufficient capacity to us in order to meet our requirements. in addition, even if we are able to expand existing or find new manufacturing or sources of materials, we may encounter delays in production and added costs as a result of the time it takes to train suppliers and manufacturers in our methods, products, quality control standards and labor, health and safety standards. any delays, interruption or increased costs in labor or wages, or the supply of materials or manufacture of our products could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet retail customer and consumer demand for our products and result in lower revenues and net income both in the short- and long-term. because independent manufacturers make a majority of our products outside of our principal sales markets, our products must be transported by third parties over large geographic distances. delays in the shipment or delivery of our products due to the availability of transportation, work stoppages, port strikes, infrastructure congestion or other factors, and costs and delays associated with consolidating or transitioning between manufacturers, could adversely impact our financial performance. in addition, manufacturing delays or unexpected demand for our products may require us to use faster, but more expensive, transportation methods such as air freight, which could adversely affect our profit margins. the cost of oil is a significant component in manufacturing and transportation costs, so increases in the price of petroleum products can adversely affect our profit margins. 12 table of contents in addition, sojitz america performs significant import-export financing services for the company. during fiscal 2016, sojitz america provided financing and purchasing services for nike brand products sold in certain nike markets including argentina, uruguay, brazil, canada, india, south africa and thailand (collectively the sojitz markets ), excluding products produced and sold in the same country. any failure of sojitz america to provide these services or any failure of sojitz america's banks could disrupt our ability to acquire products from our suppliers and to deliver products to our customers in the sojitz markets. such a disruption could result in canceled orders that would adversely affect sales and profitability. our success depends on our global distribution facilities. we distribute our products to customers directly from the factory and through distribution centers located throughout the world. our ability to meet customer expectations, manage inventory, complete sales and achieve objectives for operating efficiencies and growth, particularly in emerging markets, depends on the proper operation of our distribution facilities, the development or expansion of additional distribution capabilities and the timely performance of services by third parties (including those involved in shipping product to and from our distribution facilities). our distribution facilities could be interrupted by information technology problems and disasters such as earthquakes or fires. any significant failure in our distribution facilities could result in an adverse effect on our business. we maintain business interruption insurance, but it may not adequately protect us from adverse effects that could be caused by significant disruptions in our distribution facilities. we rely significantly on information technology to operate our business, including our supply chain and retail operations, and any failure, inadequacy or interruption of that technology could harm our ability to effectively operate our business. we are heavily dependent on information technology systems and networks, including the internet and third-party hosted services ( information technology systems ), across our supply chain, including product design, production, forecasting, ordering, manufacturing, transportation, sales and distribution, as well as for processing financial information for external and internal reporting purposes, retail operations and other business activities. our information technology systems are critical to many of our operating activities and our business processes and may be negatively impacted by any service interruption or shutdown. for example, our ability to effectively manage and maintain our inventory and to ship products to customers on a timely basis depends significantly on the reliability of these information technology systems. over a number of years, we have implemented information technology systems in all of the geographical regions in which we operate. our work to integrate, secure and enhance these systems and related processes in our global operations is ongoing and nike will continue to invest in these efforts. the failure of these systems to operate effectively, including as a result of security breaches, viruses, hackers or other causes, or our failure to properly maintain, protect, repair or upgrade our systems, or problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems could cause delays in product fulfillment and reduced efficiency of our operations, could require significant capital investments to remediate the problem and may have an adverse effect on our reputation, results of operations and financial condition. we also use information technology systems to process financial information and results of operations for internal reporting purposes and to comply with regulatory financial reporting, legal and tax requirements. if our information technology systems suffer severe damage, disruption or shutdown and our business continuity plans do not effectively resolve the issues in a timely manner, we could experience delays in reporting our financial results, which could result in lost revenues and profits, as well as reputational damage. furthermore, we depend on information technology systems and personal data collection and use for digital marketing, digital commerce, consumer engagement and the marketing and use of our digital products and services. we also rely on our ability to engage in electronic communications throughout the world between and among our employees as well as with other third parties, including customers, suppliers, vendors and consumers. any interruption in our information technology systems may impede our ability to engage in the digital space and result in lost revenues, damage to our reputation, and loss of users. the market for prime real estate is competitive. our ability to effectively obtain real estate to open new retail stores and otherwise conduct our operations, both domestically and internationally, depends on the availability of real estate that meets our criteria for traffic, square footage, co-tenancies, lease economics, demographics and other factors. we also must be able to effectively renew our existing real estate leases. in addition, from time to time, we seek to downsize, consolidate, reposition or close some of our real estate locations, which may require modification of an existing lease. failure to secure adequate new locations or successfully modify leases for existing locations, or failure to effectively manage the profitability of our existing fleet of retail stores, could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. additionally, the economic environment may at times make it difficult to determine the fair market rent of real estate properties domestically and internationally. this could impact the quality of our decisions to exercise lease options at previously negotiated rents and to renew expiring leases at negotiated rents. any adverse effect on the quality of these decisions could impact our ability to retain real estate locations adequate to meet our targets or efficiently manage the profitability of our existing fleet of stores, which could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. extreme weather conditions and natural disasters could negatively impact our operating results and financial condition. extreme weather conditions in the areas in which our retail stores, suppliers, customers, distribution centers and vendors are located could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. moreover, natural disasters such as earthquakes, hurricanes and tsunamis, whether occurring in the united states or abroad, and their related consequences and effects, including energy shortages and public health issues, could disrupt our operations, the operations of our vendors and other suppliers or result in economic instability that may negatively impact our operating results and financial condition. our financial results may be adversely affected if substantial investments in businesses and operations fail to produce expected returns. from time to time, we may invest in technology, business infrastructure, new businesses, product offering and manufacturing innovation and expansion of existing businesses, such as our retail operations, which require substantial cash investments and management attention. we believe cost-effective investments are essential to business growth and profitability. however, significant investments are subject to typical risks and uncertainties inherent in developing a new business or expanding an existing business. the failure of any significant investment to provide expected returns or profitability could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and divert management attention from more profitable business operations. 13 table of contents we are subject to periodic litigation and other regulatory proceedings, which could result in unexpected expense of time and resources. from time to time we are called upon to defend ourselves against lawsuits and regulatory actions relating to our business. due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation and regulatory proceedings, we cannot accurately predict the ultimate outcome of any such proceedings. an unfavorable outcome could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, any significant litigation in the future, regardless of its merits, could divert management's attention from our operations and result in substantial legal fees. we depend on key personnel, the loss of whom would harm our business. our future success will depend in part on the continued service of key executive officers and personnel. the loss of the services of any key individual could harm our business. our future success also depends on our ability to recruit, retain and engage our personnel sufficiently, both to maintain our current business and to execute our strategic initiatives. competition for employees in our industry is intense and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. the sale of a large number of shares of common stock by our principal stockholder could depress the market price of our common stock. as of june 30, 2016, swoosh, llc beneficially owned more than 78% of our class a common stock. if, on june 30, 2016, all of these shares were converted into class b common stock, the commensurate ownership percentage of our class b common stock would be approximately 16%. the shares are available for resale, subject to the requirements of the u.s. securities laws and the terms of the limited liability company agreement governing swoosh, llc. the sale or prospect of a sale of a substantial number of these shares could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. swoosh, llc was formed by philip h. knight, our chairman emeritus, to hold the majority of his shares of class a common stock. on june 30, 2016, mr. knight sold his voting interest in swoosh, llc to a trust controlled by his son and nike director, travis knight. changes in our credit ratings or macroeconomic conditions may affect our liquidity, increasing borrowing costs and limiting our financing options. our long-term debt is currently rated investment grade by standard &amp; poor's and moody's investors service. if our credit ratings are lowered, borrowing costs for future long-term debt or short-term credit facilities may increase and our financing options, including our access to the unsecured credit market, could be limited. we may also be subject to restrictive covenants that would reduce our flexibility to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, make restricted payments, pledge assets as security, make investments, loans, advances, guarantees and acquisitions, undergo fundamental changes and enter into transactions with affiliates. failure to comply with such covenants could result in a default, and as a result, the commitments of our lenders under our credit agreements may be terminated and the maturity of amounts owed may be accelerated. in addition, macroeconomic conditions, such as increased volatility or disruption in the credit markets, could adversely affect our ability to refinance existing debt. if our internal controls are ineffective, our operating results could be adversely affected. our internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls or fraud. even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in their implementation, our business and operating results could be harmed and we could fail to meet our financial reporting obligations. if our estimates or judgments relating to our critical accounting policies prove to be incorrect, our operating results could be adversely affected. the preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. we base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, as provided in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. the results of these estimates form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets, liabilities and equity, and the amount of revenue and expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources. significant assumptions and estimates used in preparing our consolidated financial statements include those related to revenue recognition, allowance for uncollectible accounts receivable, inventories, contingent payments under endorsement contracts, accounting for property, plant and equipment and definite-lived assets and goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets. our operating results may be adversely affected if our assumptions change or if actual circumstances differ from those in our assumptions, which could cause our operating results to fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in the price of our class b common stock. anti-takeover provisions may impair an acquisition of the company or reduce the price of our common stock. there are provisions of our articles of incorporation and oregon law that are intended to protect shareholder interests by providing the board of directors a means to attempt to deny coercive takeover attempts or to negotiate with a potential acquirer in order to obtain more favorable terms. such provisions include a control share acquisition statute, a freeze-out statute, two classes of stock that vote separately on certain issues, and the fact that holders of class a common stock elect three-quarters of the board of directors rounded down to the next whole number. however, such provisions could discourage, delay or prevent an unsolicited merger, acquisition or other change in control of our company that some shareholders might believe to be in their best interests or in which shareholders might receive a premium for their common stock over the prevailing market price. these provisions could also discourage proxy contests for control of the company. 14 table of contents we may fail to meet market expectations, which could cause the price of our stock to decline. our class b common stock is traded publicly, and at any given time various securities analysts follow our financial results and issue reports on us. these reports include information about our historical financial results as well as analysts' estimates of our future performance. analysts' estimates are based upon their own opinions and are often different from our estimates or expectations. if our operating results are below the estimates or expectations of public market analysts and investors, our stock price could decline. in the past, securities class action litigation has been brought against nike and other companies following a decline in the market price of their securities. if our stock price is volatile, we may become involved in this type of litigation in the future. any litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources that are needed to successfully run our business. 15 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 44 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in the normal course of business and consistent with established policies and procedures, we employ a variety of financial instruments to manage exposure to fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies and interest rates. it is our policy to utilize these financial instruments only where necessary to finance our business and manage such exposures; we do not enter into these transactions for trading or speculative purposes. we are exposed to foreign currency fluctuations, primarily as a result of our international sales, product sourcing and funding activities. our foreign exchange risk management program is intended to lessen both the positive and negative effects of currency fluctuations on our consolidated results of operations, financial position and cash flows. we use forward and option contracts to hedge certain anticipated but not yet firmly committed transactions as well as certain firm commitments and the related receivables and payables, including third-party and intercompany transactions. we have, in the past, and may in the future, also use forward or options contracts to hedge our investment in the net assets of certain international subsidiaries to offset foreign currency translation adjustments related to our net investment in those subsidiaries. where exposures are hedged, our program has the effect of delaying the impact of exchange rate movements on our consolidated financial statements. the timing for hedging exposures, as well as the type and duration of the hedge instruments employed, are guided by our hedging policies and determined based upon the nature of the exposure and prevailing market conditions. typically, the company may enter into hedge contracts starting up to 12 to 24 months in advance of the forecasted transaction and may place incremental hedges up to 100% of the exposure by the time the forecasted transaction occurs. the majority of derivatives outstanding as of may 31, 2016 are designated as foreign currency cash flow hedges, primarily for euro/u.s. dollar, british pound/euro and japanese yen/u.s. dollar currency pairs. see section foreign currency exposures and hedging practices under item 7 for additional detail. our earnings are also exposed to movements in short- and long-term market interest rates. our objective in managing this interest rate exposure is to limit the impact of interest rate changes on earnings and cash flows and to reduce overall borrowing costs. to achieve these objectives, we maintain a mix of commercial paper, bank loans, fixed-rate debt of varying maturities and have entered into receive-fixed, pay-variable interest rate swaps for a portion of our fixed-rate debt, as well as pay-fixed, receive-variable forward-starting interest rate swaps for cash outflows of interest payments on future debt. market risk measurement we monitor foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk and related derivatives using a variety of techniques including a review of market value, sensitivity analysis and value-at-risk ( var ). our market-sensitive derivative and other financial instruments are foreign currency forward contracts, foreign currency option contracts, interest rate swaps, intercompany loans denominated in non-functional currencies, fixed interest rate u.s. dollar denominated debt and fixed interest rate japanese yen denominated debt. we use var to monitor the foreign exchange risk of our foreign currency forward and foreign currency option derivative instruments only. the var determines the maximum potential one-day loss in the fair value of these foreign exchange rate-sensitive financial instruments. the var model estimates assume normal market conditions and a 95% confidence level. there are various modeling techniques that can be used in the var computation. our computations are based on interrelationships between currencies and interest rates (a variance/co-variance technique). these interrelationships are a function of foreign exchange currency market changes and interest rate changes over the preceding one year period. the value of foreign currency options does not change on a one-to-one basis with changes in the underlying currency rate. we adjust the potential loss in option value for the estimated sensitivity (the delta and gamma ) to changes in the underlying currency rate. this calculation reflects the impact of foreign currency rate fluctuations on the derivative instruments only and does not include the impact of such rate fluctuations on non-functional currency transactions (such as anticipated transactions, firm commitments, cash balances and accounts and loans receivable and payable), including those which are hedged by these instruments. the var model is a risk analysis tool and does not purport to represent actual losses in fair value that we will incur nor does it consider the potential effect of favorable changes in market rates. it also does not represent the full extent of the possible loss that may occur. actual future gains and losses will differ from those estimated because of changes or differences in market rates and interrelationships, hedging instruments and hedge percentages, timing and other factors. the estimated maximum one-day loss in fair value on our foreign currency sensitive derivative financial instruments, derived using the var model, was $109 million and $117 million at may 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. the var decreased year-over-year as a result of a decrease in the total notional value of our foreign currency derivative portfolio at may 31, 2016. such a hypothetical loss in the fair value of our derivatives would be offset by increases in the value of the underlying transactions being hedged. the average monthly change in the fair values of foreign currency forward and foreign currency option derivative instruments was $209 million and $205 million during fiscal 2016 and fiscal 2015, respectively. the instruments not included in the var are intercompany loans denominated in non-functional currencies, fixed interest rate japanese yen denominated debt, fixed interest rate u.s. dollar denominated debt and interest rate swaps. intercompany loans and related interest amounts are eliminated in consolidation. furthermore, our non-functional currency intercompany loans are substantially hedged against foreign exchange risk through the use of forward contracts, which are included in the var calculation above. therefore, we consider the interest rate and foreign currency market risks associated with our non-functional currency intercompany loans to be immaterial to our consolidated financial position, results from operations and cash flows. during the year ended may 31, 2016, we entered into a series of forward-starting interest rate swap agreements. a forward-starting interest rate swap is an agreement that effectively hedges the variability in future benchmark interest payments attributable to changes in interest rates on the forecasted issuance of fixed-rate debt. we entered into these forward-starting interest rate swaps in order to lock in fixed interest rates on our forecasted issuance of debt. these instruments were designated as cash flow hedges of the variability in the expected cash outflows of interest payments on future debt due to changes in benchmark interest rates. details of third-party debt and interest rate swaps are provided in the table below. the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates. 44 table of contents expected maturity date year ending may 31, (dollars in millions) 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 thereafter total fair value foreign exchange risk japanese yen functional currency long-term japanese yen debt fixed rate principal payments $ 6 $ 6 $ 6 $ 6 $ 3 $ $ 27 $ 28 average interest rate 2.4 % 2.4 % 2.4 % 2.4 % 2.4 % 0.0 % 2.4 % interest rate risk japanese yen functional currency long-term japanese yen debt fixed rate principal payments $ 6 $ 6 $ 6 $ 6 $ 3 $ $ 27 $ 28 average interest rate 2.4 % 2.4 % 2.4 % 2.4 % 2.4 % 0.0 % 2.4 % u.s. dollar functional currency long-term u.s. dollar debt fixed rate principal payments $ 38 $ $ $ $ $ 2,000 $ 2,038 $ 2,097 average interest rate 6.2 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 3.4 % 3.5 % anticipated long-term u.s. dollar debt issuance - floating rate swapped to fixed rate notional (1) $ 1,500 $ $ $ $ $ $ 1,500 $ 38 weighted-average fixed rate 2.2 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 2.2 % weighted-average floating rate 0.7 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.7 % (1) forward-starting interest rate swaps have been included in the maturities category based on when the related forecasted debt issuance and corresponding swap terminations are expected to occur. the fixed interest rate japanese yen denominated debt instruments were issued by and are accounted for by one of our japanese subsidiaries. accordingly, the monthly translation of these instruments, which varies due to changes in foreign exchange rates, is recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income upon consolidation of this subsidiary.risk factors 7 risk factors. we report our nike brand operations based on our internal geographic organization. each nike brand geography operates predominantly in one industry: the design, development, marketing and selling of athletic footwear, apparel, equipment, accessories and services. for fiscal 2017, our reportable operating segments for the nike brand are: north america, western europe, central &amp; eastern europe, greater china, japan and emerging markets. in june 2017, we announced a new company alignment designed to allow nike to better serve the consumer personally, at scale. as a result of this organizational realignment, beginning in fiscal 2018, the company's reportable operating segments for the nike brand will be: north america; europe, middle east and africa; greater china; and asia pacific and latin america. our nike brand direct to consumer operations are, and will continue to be, managed within each geographic operating segment. converse is, and will continue to be, a reportable segment and operates in one industry: the design, marketing, licensing and selling of casual sneakers, apparel and accessories. converse direct to consumer operations, including digital commerce, are reported within the converse operating segment results. united states market for fiscal 2017 , nike brand and converse sales in the united states accounted for approximately 46% of total revenues, compared to 47% and 46% for fiscal 2016 and fiscal 2015 , respectively. we sell our nike brand, jordan brand, hurley and converse products to thousands of retail accounts in the united states, including a mix of footwear stores, sporting goods stores, athletic specialty stores, department stores, skate, tennis and golf shops and other retail accounts. in the united states, we utilize nike sales offices to solicit such sales. during fiscal 2017 , our three largest customers accounted for approximately 23% of sales in the united states. our direct to consumer operations sell nike brand, jordan brand, hurley and converse products to consumers through our digital commerce website, www.nike.com and through mobile applications. in addition, our direct to consumer operations sell through the following number of retail stores in the united states: u.s. retail stores number nike brand factory stores 209 nike brand in-line stores (including employee-only stores) 34 converse stores (including factory stores) 112 hurley stores (including factory and employee stores) 29 total 384 in the united states, nike has six significant distribution centers located in memphis, tennessee, two of which are owned and four of which are leased. nike brand apparel and equipment products are also shipped from our leased foothill ranch, california distribution center. converse and hurley products are shipped primarily from leased facilities in ontario, california, as well as from memphis, tennessee. smaller leased distribution facilities are located in various parts of the united states. we also operate a futures ordering program, which allows retailers to order five to six months in advance of delivery with the commitment that their orders will be delivered within a set time period at a fixed price. for fiscal 2017 , orders under the futures program represented 83% of our u.s. wholesale footwear revenues, compared to 84% for fiscal 2016 and 87% for fiscal 2015 . for fiscal 2017 , futures orders represented 66% of our u.s. wholesale apparel revenues, compared to 66% for fiscal 2016 and 67% for fiscal 2015 . international markets for fiscal 2017 , non-u.s. nike brand and converse sales accounted for 54% of total revenues, compared to 53% and 54% for fiscal 2016 and fiscal 2015 , respectively. we sell our products to retail accounts, through our own direct to consumer operations and through a mix of independent distributors, licensees and sales representatives around the world. we sell to thousands of retail accounts and ship products from 60 distribution centers outside of the united states. in many countries and regions, including canada, asia, europe and some latin american countries, we have a futures ordering program for retailers similar to the united states futures ordering program described above. during fiscal 2017 , nike's three largest customers outside of the united states accounted for approximately 12% of total non-u.s. sales. 2 table of contents in addition to nike and converse owned digital commerce websites in over 45 countries, our direct to consumer business operates the following number of retail stores outside the united states: non-u.s. retail stores number nike brand factory stores 642 nike brand in-line stores (including employee-only stores) 71 converse stores (including factory stores) 45 total 758 international branch offices and subsidiaries of nike are located in argentina, australia, austria, belgium, bermuda, brazil, canada, chile, china, croatia, the czech republic, denmark, finland, france, germany, greece, hong kong, hungary, india, indonesia, ireland, israel, italy, japan, korea, macau, malaysia, mexico, the netherlands, new zealand, norway, panama, the philippines, poland, portugal, russia, singapore, slovakia, slovenia, south africa, spain, sri lanka, sweden, switzerland, taiwan, thailand, turkey, the united arab emirates, the united kingdom, uruguay and vietnam. significant customer no customer accounted for 10% or more of our worldwide net revenues during fiscal 2017 . orders futures orders for nike brand footwear and apparel scheduled for delivery from june through november 2017 were $14.7 billion compared to $15.0 billion for the same period last year. nike brand futures orders include (1) orders from external wholesale customers and (2) internal orders from our dtc in-line stores and digital commerce operations which are reflected at prices that are comparable to prices charged to external wholesale customers. the u.s. dollar futures orders amount is calculated based upon our internal forecast of the actual currency exchange rates under which our revenues will be translated during this period. reported futures orders are not necessarily indicative of our expectation of revenues for this period and have become less correlated due to our evolving business model. this is due to year-over-year changes in shipment timing, changes in the mix of orders between futures and orders with shorter lead times, and because the fulfillment of certain orders may fall outside of the schedule noted above. in addition, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations as well as differing levels of order cancellations, discounts and returns can cause differences in the comparisons between futures orders and actual revenues. a portion of our revenue is not derived from futures orders, including sales with short lead times, closeout nike brand footwear and apparel, all sales of nike brand equipment, the difference between retail sales and internal orders from our dtc in-line stores and digital commerce operations, and sales from converse, nike golf and hurley. product research, design and development we believe our research, design and development efforts are key factors in our success. technical innovation in the design and manufacturing process of footwear, apparel and athletic equipment receive continued emphasis as we strive to produce products that help to enhance athletic performance, reduce injury and maximize comfort while reducing waste. in addition to our own staff of specialists in the areas of biomechanics, chemistry, exercise physiology, engineering, industrial design, sustainability and related fields, we also utilize research committees and advisory boards made up of athletes, coaches, trainers, equipment managers, orthopedists, podiatrists and other experts who consult with us and review designs, materials, concepts for product and manufacturing process improvements and compliance with product safety regulations around the world. employee athletes, athletes engaged under sports marketing contracts and other athletes wear-test and evaluate products during the design and development process. as we continue to develop new technologies, we are simultaneously focused on the design of innovative products incorporating such technologies throughout our product categories. using market intelligence and research, our various design teams identify opportunities to leverage new technologies in existing categories responding to consumer preferences. the proliferation of nike air, lunar, zoom, free, flywire, dri-fit, flyknit, flyweave, zoomx, react and nike+ technologies throughout our running, nike basketball, the jordan brand, football (soccer), men's training, women's training and sportswear categories, among others, typifies our dedication to designing innovative products. manufacturing we are supplied by approximately 127 footwear factories located in 15 countries. the largest single footwear factory accounted for approximately 8% of total fiscal 2017 nike brand footwear production. virtually all of our footwear is manufactured outside of the united states by independent contract manufacturers who often operate multiple factories. for fiscal 2017 , contract factories in vietnam, china and indonesia manufactured approximately 46%, 27% and 21% of total nike brand footwear, respectively. we also have manufacturing agreements with independent contract manufacturers in argentina, india, brazil, mexico and italy to manufacture footwear for sale primarily within those countries. for fiscal 2017 , five footwear contract manufacturers each accounted for greater than 10% of footwear production and in the aggregate accounted for approximately 69% of nike brand footwear production. we are supplied by approximately 363 apparel factories located in 37 countries. the largest single apparel factory accounted for approximately 13% of total fiscal 2017 nike brand apparel production. virtually all of our apparel is manufactured outside of the united states by independent contract manufacturers which often operate multiple factories. for fiscal 2017 , contract factories in china, vietnam and thailand produced approximately 26%, 16% and 10% of total nike brand apparel, respectively. for fiscal 2017 , one apparel contract manufacturer accounted for more than 10% of apparel production, and the top five contract manufacturers in the aggregate accounted for approximately 43% of nike brand apparel production. 3 table of contents the principal materials used in our footwear products are natural and synthetic rubber, plastic compounds, foam cushioning materials, natural and synthetic leather, nylon, polyester and canvas, as well as polyurethane films used to make nike air-sole cushioning components. during fiscal 2017 , air manufacturing innovation, with facilities near beaverton, oregon and in st. charles, missouri, as well as independent contractors in china and vietnam, were our suppliers of the air-sole cushioning components used in footwear. the principal materials used in our apparel products are natural and synthetic fabrics and threads (both virgin and recycled); specialized performance fabrics designed to efficiently wick moisture away from the body, retain heat and repel rain and/or snow; and plastic and metal hardware. nike's independent contractors and suppliers buy raw materials for the manufacturing of our footwear, apparel and equipment products. most raw materials are available and purchased by those independent contractors and suppliers in the countries where manufacturing takes place. nike's independent contract manufacturers and suppliers have thus far experienced little difficulty in satisfying raw material requirements for the production of our products. since 1972, sojitz corporation of america ( sojitz america ), a large japanese trading company and the sole owner of our redeemable preferred stock, has performed significant import-export financing services for us. during fiscal 2017 , sojitz america provided financing and purchasing services for nike brand products sold in certain nike markets including argentina, brazil, canada, india, south africa, thailand and uruguay, excluding products produced and sold in the same country. approximately 6% of nike brand sales occurred in those countries. any failure of sojitz america to provide these services or any failure of sojitz america's banks could disrupt our ability to acquire products from our suppliers and to deliver products to our customers in those markets. such a disruption could result in canceled orders that would adversely affect sales and profitability. however, we believe that any such disruption would be short-term in duration due to the ready availability of alternative sources of financing at competitive rates. our current agreements with sojitz america expire on may 31, 2018 and contain a provision allowing us to extend the agreements to may 31, 2019. international operations and trade our international operations and sources of supply are subject to the usual risks of doing business abroad, such as possible increases in import duties, anti-dumping measures, quotas, safeguard measures, trade restrictions, restrictions on the transfer of funds and, in certain parts of the world, political instability and terrorism. we have not, to date, been materially affected by any such risk, but cannot predict the likelihood of such material effects occurring in the future. in recent years, uncertain global and regional economic and political conditions have affected international trade and increased protectionist actions around the world. these trends are affecting many global manufacturing and service sectors, and the footwear and apparel industries, as a whole, are not immune. companies in our industry are facing trade protectionism in many different regions, and in nearly all cases we are working together with industry groups to address trade issues and reduce the impact to the industry, while observing applicable competition laws. notwithstanding our efforts, protectionist measures have resulted in increases in the cost of our products, and additional measures, if implemented, could adversely affect sales and/or profitability for nike as well as the imported footwear and apparel industry as a whole. we monitor protectionist trends and developments throughout the world that may materially impact our industry, and we engage in administrative and judicial processes to mitigate trade restrictions. we are actively monitoring actions that may result in additional anti-dumping measures and could affect our industry. we are also monitoring for and advocating against other impediments that may limit or delay customs clearance for imports of footwear, apparel and equipment. current u.s. policy proposals, including potential tariffs or penalties on imported goods, if enacted, may negatively affect u.s. corporations with production activities outside the u.s., including nike. there have also been discussions and commentary regarding potential changes to u.s. trade policies. if any of these reforms are implemented, it may become necessary for us to change the way we conduct business which may adversely affect our results of operations. in addition , with respect to trade restrictions targeting china, which represents an important sourcing country and consumer market for us, we are working with a broad coalition of global businesses and trade associations representing a wide variety of sectors to help ensure that any legislation enacted and implemented (i) addresses legitimate and core concerns, (ii) is consistent with international trade rules and (iii) reflects and considers china's domestic economy and the important role it has in the global economic community. where trade protection measures are implemented, we believe that we have the ability to develop, over a period of time, adequate alternative sources of supply for the products obtained from our present suppliers. if events prevented us from acquiring products from our suppliers in a particular country, our operations could be temporarily disrupted and we could experience an adverse financial impact. however, we believe we could abate any such disruption, and that much of the adverse impact on supply would, therefore, be of a short-term nature, although alternate sources of supply might not be as cost-effective and could have an ongoing adverse impact on profitability. nike advocates for trade liberalization for footwear and apparel in a number of regional and bilateral free trade agreements. competition the athletic footwear, apparel and equipment industry is highly competitive on a worldwide basis. we compete internationally with a significant number of athletic and leisure footwear companies, athletic and leisure apparel companies, sports equipment companies and large companies having diversified lines of athletic and leisure footwear, apparel and equipment, including adidas, asics, li ning, lululemon athletica, puma, under armour and v.f. corporation, among others. the intense competition and the rapid changes in technology and consumer preferences in the markets for athletic and leisure footwear and apparel and athletic equipment, constitute significant risk factors in our operations. nike is the largest seller of athletic footwear and apparel in the world. important aspects of competition in this industry are: product attributes such as quality; performance and reliability; new product innovation and development and consumer price/value. consumer connection and affinity for brands and products, developed through marketing and promotion; social media interaction; customer support and service; identification with prominent and influential athletes, public figures, coaches, teams, colleges and sports leagues who endorse our brands and use our products and active engagement through sponsored sporting events and clinics. effective sourcing and distribution of products, with attractive merchandising and presentation at retail, both in-store and online. we believe that we are competitive in all of these areas. 4 table of contents trademarks and patents we believe that our intellectual property rights are important to our brand, our success, and our competitive position. we pursue available protections of these rights and vigorously protect them against third-party theft and infringement. we utilize trademarks on nearly all of our products and believe having distinctive marks that are readily identifiable is an important factor in creating a market for our goods, in identifying our brands and the company, and in distinguishing our goods from the goods of others. we consider our nike and swoosh trademarks to be among our most valuable assets and we have registered these trademarks in almost 170 jurisdictions worldwide. in addition, we own many other trademarks that we utilize in marketing our products. we own common law rights in the trade dress of several significant shoe designs and elements. for certain trade dress, we have sought and obtained trademark registrations. we have copyright protection in our design, graphics and other original works. in some instances, we also obtain registered copyrights. we own patents and have a patent license, facilitating our use of air technologies. we file for, own and maintain many u.s. and foreign utility patents, as well as many u.s. and foreign design patents protecting components, technologies, manufacturing techniques, features and industrial design used in various athletic and leisure footwear and apparel, athletic equipment and digital devices. these patents expire at various times. we believe our success depends upon our capabilities in areas such as design, research and development, production and marketing rather than exclusively upon our patent and trade secret positions. however, we have followed a policy of filing patent applications for the united states and select foreign countries on inventions, designs and improvements that we deem valuable. we also continue to vigorously protect our trademarks and patents against third-party infringement. employees as of may 31, 2017 , we had approximately 74,400 employees worldwide, including retail and part-time employees. management considers its relationship with employees to be excellent. none of our employees are represented by a union, except for certain employees in the emerging markets geography, where local law requires those employees to be represented by a trade union. also, in some countries outside of the united states, local laws require employee representation by works councils (which may be entitled to information and consultation on certain company decisions) or by organizations similar to a union. in certain european countries, we are required by local law to enter into and/or comply with industry-wide or national collective bargaining agreements. nike has never experienced a material interruption of operations due to labor disagreements. executive officers of the registrant the executive officers of nike, inc. as of july 20, 2017 are as follows: mark g. parker, chairman, president and chief executive officer mr. parker, 61, was appointed president and chief executive officer in january 2006 and named chairman of the board in june 2016. he has been employed by nike since 1979 with primary responsibilities in product research, design and development, marketing and brand management. mr. parker was appointed divisional vice president in charge of product development in 1987, corporate vice president in 1989, general manager in 1993, vice president of global footwear in 1998 and president of the nike brand in 2001. chris l. abston, vice president and corporate controller mr. abston, 54, joined nike in 2015 from wal-mart stores, inc., where he served as vice president, global controls and governance since february 2015. prior to that he was vice president and controller of walmart international from february 2013 to january 2015, responsible for the oversight of international accounting and reporting, and vice president and assistant controller of wal-mart stores, inc. from may 2011 to january 2013. before joining wal-mart, mr. abston spent 25 years in public accounting with ernst &amp; young llp, most recently leading its strategic growth markets practice as a partner in the dallas office. david j. ayre, executive vice president, global human resources mr. ayre, 57, joined nike as vice president, global human resources in 2007. prior to joining nike, he held a number of senior human resource positions with pepsico, inc. since 1990, most recently as head of talent and performance rewards. andrew campion, executive vice president and chief financial officer mr. campion, 45, joined nike in 2007 as vice president of global planning and development, leading strategic and financial planning. he was appointed chief financial officer of the nike brand in 2010, responsible for leading all aspects of financial management for the company's flagship brand. in 2014, he was appointed senior vice president, strategy, finance and investor relations in addition to his role as chief financial officer of nike brand. mr. campion assumed the role of executive vice president and chief financial officer in august 2015. prior to joining nike, he held leadership roles in strategic planning, mergers and acquisitions, financial planning and analysis, operations and planning, investor relations and tax at the walt disney company from 1996 to 2007. trevor a. edwards, president, nike brand mr. edwards, 54, joined nike in 1992. he was appointed marketing manager, strategic accounts for foot locker in 1993, director of marketing for the americas in 1995, director of marketing for europe in 1997, vice president, marketing for europe, middle east and africa in 1999 and vice president, u.s. brand marketing in 2000. mr. edwards was appointed corporate vice president, global brand management in 2002, vice president, global brand and category management in 2006 and president, nike brand in 2013. prior to nike, mr. edwards was with the colgate-palmolive company. hilary k. krane, executive vice president, chief administrative officer and general counsel ms. krane, 53, joined nike as vice president and general counsel in april 2010. in 2011, her responsibilities expanded and she became vice president, general counsel and corporate affairs. ms. krane was appointed executive vice president, chief administrative officer and general counsel in 2013. prior to joining nike, ms. krane was general counsel and senior vice president for corporate affairs at levi strauss &amp; co. from 2006 to 2010. from 1996 to 2006, she was a partner and assistant general counsel at pricewaterhousecoopers llp. 5 table of contents john f. slusher, executive vice president, global sports marketing mr. slusher, 48, has been employed by nike since 1998 with primary responsibilities in global sports marketing. mr. slusher was appointed director of sports marketing for asia pacific and americas in 2006, divisional vice president of asia pacific &amp; americas sports marketing in september 2007 and vice president, global sports marketing in november 2007. prior to joining nike, mr. slusher was an attorney at the law firm of o'melveny &amp; myers from 1995 to 1998. eric d. sprunk, chief operating officer mr. sprunk, 53, joined nike in 1993. he was appointed finance director and general manager of the americas in 1994, finance director for nike europe in 1995, regional general manager of nike europe footwear in 1998 and vice president &amp; general manager of the americas in 2000. mr. sprunk was appointed vice president of global footwear in 2001, vice president of merchandising and product in 2009 and chief operating officer in 2013. prior to joining nike, mr. sprunk was a certified public accountant with price waterhouse from 1987 to 1993. as recently announced by the company, mr. ayre will retire at the end of the calendar year. succeeding mr. ayre as executive vice president, global human resources, will be monique matheson. ms. matheson, 50, has been employed by nike since 1998, with primary responsibilities in the human resources function and most recently serving as vice president, chief talent and diversity officer. 6 table of contents item 1a. risk factors special note regarding forward-looking statements and analyst reports certain written and oral statements, other than purely historic information, including estimates, projections, statements relating to nike's business plans, objectives and expected operating results and the assumptions upon which those statements are based, made or incorporated by reference from time to time by nike or its representatives in this report, other reports, filings with the sec, press releases, conferences or otherwise, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended. forward-looking statements include, without limitation, any statement that may predict, forecast, indicate or imply future results, performance or achievements, and may contain the words believe, anticipate, expect, estimate, project, will be, will continue, will likely result or words or phrases of similar meaning. forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties which may cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. the risks and uncertainties are detailed from time to time in reports filed by nike with the sec, including reports filed on forms 8-k, 10-q and 10-k, and include, among others, the following: international, national and local general economic and market conditions; the size and growth of the overall athletic footwear, apparel and equipment markets; intense competition among designers, marketers, distributors and sellers of athletic footwear, apparel and equipment for consumers and endorsers; demographic changes; changes in consumer preferences; popularity of particular designs, categories of products and sports; seasonal and geographic demand for nike products; difficulties in anticipating or forecasting changes in consumer preferences, consumer demand for nike products and the various market factors described above; difficulties in implementing, operating and maintaining nike's increasingly complex information systems and controls, including, without limitation, the systems related to demand and supply planning and inventory control; interruptions in data and information technology systems; consumer data security; fluctuations and difficulty in forecasting operating results, including, without limitation, the fact that advance futures orders may not be indicative of future revenues due to changes in shipment timing, the changing mix of futures and orders with shorter lead times, and discounts, order cancellations and returns; the ability of nike to sustain, manage or forecast its growth and inventories; the size, timing and mix of purchases of nike's products; increases in the cost of materials, labor and energy used to manufacture products; new product development and introduction; the ability to secure and protect trademarks, patents and other intellectual property; product performance and quality; customer service; adverse publicity; the loss of significant customers or suppliers; dependence on distributors and licensees; business disruptions; increased costs of freight and transportation to meet delivery deadlines; increases in borrowing costs due to any decline in nike's debt ratings; changes in business strategy or development plans; general risks associated with doing business outside of the united states, including, without limitation, exchange rate fluctuations, import duties, tariffs, quotas, political and economic instability and terrorism; proposed changes to u.s. tax laws or policy, tariff and import/export regulations; changes in government regulations; the impact of, including business and legal developments relating to, climate change and natural disasters; litigation, regulatory proceedings and other claims asserted against nike; the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel; the effects of nike's decision to invest in or divest of businesses and other factors referenced or incorporated by reference in this report and other reports. the risks included here are not exhaustive. other sections of this report may include additional factors which could adversely affect nike's business and financial performance. moreover, nike operates in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. new risks emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risks, nor can it assess the impact of all such risks on nike's business or the extent to which any risk, or combination of risks, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. investors should also be aware that while nike does, from time to time, communicate with securities analysts, it is against nike's policy to disclose to them any material non-public information or other confidential commercial information. accordingly, shareholders should not assume that nike agrees with any statement or report issued by any analyst irrespective of the content of the statement or report. furthermore, nike has a policy against issuing or confirming financial forecasts or projections issued by others. thus, to the extent that reports issued by securities analysts contain any projections, forecasts or opinions, such reports are not the responsibility of nike. our products face intense competition. nike is a consumer products company and the relative popularity of various sports and fitness activities and changing design trends affect the demand for our products. the athletic footwear, apparel and equipment industry is highly competitive both in the united states and worldwide. we compete internationally with a significant number of athletic and leisure footwear companies, athletic and leisure apparel companies, sports equipment companies and large companies having diversified lines of athletic and leisure footwear, apparel and equipment. we also compete with other companies for the production capacity of independent manufacturers that produce our products. our dtc operations, both through our digital commerce operations and retail stores, also compete with multi-brand retailers selling our products. product offerings, technologies, marketing expenditures (including expenditures for advertising and endorsements), pricing, costs of production, customer service, digital commerce platforms and social media presence are areas of intense competition. this, in addition to rapid changes in technology and consumer preferences in the markets for athletic and leisure footwear and apparel and athletic equipment, constitute significant risk factors in our operations. in addition, the competitive nature of retail including shifts in the ways in which consumers are shopping, and the rising trend of digital commerce, constitutes a risk factor implicating our dtc and wholesale operations. if we do not adequately and timely anticipate and respond to our competitors, our costs may increase or the consumer demand for our products may decline significantly. failure to maintain our reputation and brand image could negatively impact our business. our iconic brands have worldwide recognition, and our success depends on our ability to maintain and enhance our brand image and reputation. maintaining, promoting and growing our brands will depend on our design and marketing efforts, including advertising and consumer campaigns, product innovation and product quality. our commitment to product innovation and quality and our continuing investment in design (including materials) and marketing may not have the desired impact on our brand image and reputation. we could be adversely impacted if we fail to achieve any of these objectives or if the reputation or image of any of our brands is tarnished or receives negative publicity. in addition, adverse publicity about regulatory or legal action against us, or by us, could damage our reputation and brand image, undermine consumer confidence in us and reduce long-term demand for our products, even if the regulatory or legal action is unfounded or not material to our operations. in addition, our success in maintaining, extending and expanding our brand image depends on our ability to adapt to a rapidly changing media environment, including our increasing reliance on social media and digital dissemination of advertising campaigns. negative posts or comments about us on social networking applications or websites could seriously damage our reputation and brand image. if we do not maintain, extend and expand our brand image, then our product sales, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 7 table of contents if we are unable to anticipate consumer preferences and develop new products, we may not be able to maintain or increase our revenues and profits. our success depends on our ability to identify, originate and define product trends as well as to anticipate, gauge and react to changing consumer demands in a timely manner. however, lead times for many of our products may make it more difficult for us to respond rapidly to new or changing product trends or consumer preferences. all of our products are subject to changing consumer preferences that cannot be predicted with certainty. our new products may not receive consumer acceptance as consumer preferences could shift rapidly to different types of performance products or away from these types of products altogether, and our future success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and respond to these changes. if we fail to anticipate accurately and respond to trends and shifts in consumer preferences by adjusting the mix of existing product offerings, developing new products, designs, styles and categories, and influencing sports and fitness preferences through aggressive marketing, we could experience lower sales, excess inventories or lower profit margins, any of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. in addition, we market our products globally through a diverse spectrum of advertising and promotional programs and campaigns, including social media, mobile applications and online advertising. if we do not successfully market our products or if advertising and promotional costs increase, these factors could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we rely on technical innovation and high-quality products to compete in the market for our products. technical innovation and quality control in the design and manufacturing process of footwear, apparel and athletic equipment is essential to the commercial success of our products. research and development play a key role in technical innovation. we rely upon specialists in the fields of biomechanics, chemistry, exercise physiology, engineering, industrial design, sustainability and related fields, as well as research committees and advisory boards made up of athletes, coaches, trainers, equipment managers, orthopedists, podiatrists and other experts to develop and test cutting-edge performance products. while we strive to produce products that help to enhance athletic performance, reduce injury and maximize comfort, if we fail to introduce technical innovation in our products, consumer demand for our products could decline, and if we experience problems with the quality of our products, we may incur substantial expense to remedy the problems. failure to continue to obtain or maintain high-quality endorsers of our products could harm our business. we establish relationships with professional athletes, sports teams and leagues, as well as other public figures, to develop, evaluate and promote our products, as well as establish product authenticity with consumers. however, as competition in our industry has increased, the costs associated with establishing and retaining such sponsorships and other relationships have increased. if we are unable to maintain our current associations with professional athletes, sports teams and leagues, or other public figures, or to do so at a reasonable cost, we could lose the high visibility or on-field authenticity associated with our products, and we may be required to modify and substantially increase our marketing investments. as a result, our brands, net revenues, expenses and profitability could be harmed. furthermore, if certain endorsers were to stop using our products contrary to their endorsement agreements, our business could be adversely affected. in addition, actions taken by athletes, teams or leagues, or other endorsers, associated with our products that harm the reputations of those athletes, teams or leagues, or endorsers, could also seriously harm our brand image with consumers and, as a result, could have an adverse effect on our sales and financial condition. in addition, poor performance by our endorsers, a failure to continue to correctly identify promising athletes, or public figures, to use and endorse our products or a failure to enter into cost-effective endorsement arrangements with prominent athletes, public figures, and sports organizations could adversely affect our brand, sales and profitability. currency exchange rate fluctuations could result in lower revenues, higher costs and decreased margins and earnings. a majority of our products are manufactured and sold outside of the united states. as a result, we conduct purchase and sale transactions in various currencies, which increases our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates globally. additionally, there has been, and may continue to be, volatility in currency exchange rates as a result of the united kingdom's impending exit from the european union, commonly referred to as brexit and current u.s. policy proposals. our international revenues and expenses generally are derived from sales and operations in foreign currencies, and these revenues and expenses could be affected by currency fluctuations, specifically amounts recorded in foreign currencies and translated into u.s. dollars for consolidated financial reporting, as weakening of foreign currencies relative to the u.s. dollar adversely affects the u.s. dollar value of the company's foreign currency-denominated sales and earnings. currency exchange rate fluctuations could also disrupt the business of the independent manufacturers that produce our products by making their purchases of raw materials more expensive and more difficult to finance. foreign currency fluctuations have adversely affected and could continue to have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we may hedge certain foreign currency exposures to lessen and delay, but not to completely eliminate, the effects of foreign currency fluctuations on our financial results. since the hedging activities are designed to lessen volatility, they not only reduce the negative impact of a stronger u.s. dollar or other trading currency, but they also reduce the positive impact of a weaker u.s. dollar or other trading currency. our future financial results could be significantly affected by the value of the u.s. dollar in relation to the foreign currencies in which we conduct business. the degree to which our financial results are affected for any given time period will depend in part upon our hedging activities. 8 table of contents global economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. the uncertain state of the global economy continues to impact businesses around the world, most acutely in emerging markets and developing economies. if global economic and financial market conditions do not improve or deteriorate, the following factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition: slower consumer spending may result in reduced demand for our products, reduced orders from retailers for our products, order cancellations, lower revenues, higher discounts, increased inventories and lower gross margins. in the future, we may be unable to access financing in the credit and capital markets at reasonable rates in the event we find it desirable to do so. we conduct transactions in various currencies, which increases our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar. continued volatility in the markets and exchange rates for foreign currencies and contracts in foreign currencies, including in response to certain policies advocated by the u.s. presidential administration, could have a significant impact on our reported operating results and financial condition. continued volatility in the availability and prices for commodities and raw materials we use in our products and in our supply chain (such as cotton or petroleum derivatives) could have a material adverse effect on our costs, gross margins and profitability. if retailers of our products experience declining revenues or experience difficulty obtaining financing in the capital and credit markets to purchase our products, this could result in reduced orders for our products, order cancellations, late retailer payments, extended payment terms, higher accounts receivable, reduced cash flows, greater expense associated with collection efforts and increased bad debt expense. if retailers of our products experience severe financial difficulty, some may become insolvent and cease business operations, which could negatively impact the sale of our products to consumers. if contract manufacturers of our products or other participants in our supply chain experience difficulty obtaining financing in the capital and credit markets to purchase raw materials or to finance capital equipment and other general working capital needs, it may result in delays or non-delivery of shipments of our products. our business is affected by seasonality, which could result in fluctuations in our operating results. we experience moderate fluctuations in aggregate sales volume during the year. historically, revenues in the first and fourth fiscal quarters have slightly exceeded those in the second and third fiscal quarters. however, the mix of product sales may vary considerably from time to time as a result of changes in seasonal and geographic demand for particular types of footwear, apparel and equipment and in connection with the timing of significant sporting events, such as the olympics or the european football championship, among others. in addition, our customers may cancel orders, change delivery schedules or change the mix of products ordered with minimal notice. as a result, we may not be able to accurately predict our quarterly sales. accordingly, our results of operations are likely to fluctuate significantly from period to period. this seasonality, along with other factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions, changes in consumer preferences, weather conditions, availability of import quotas, transportation disruptions and currency exchange rate fluctuations, could adversely affect our business and cause our results of operations to fluctuate. our operating margins are also sensitive to a number of additional factors that are beyond our control, including manufacturing and transportation costs, shifts in product sales mix and geographic sales trends, all of which we expect to continue. results of operations in any period should not be considered indicative of the results to be expected for any future period. futures orders may not be an accurate indication of our future revenues. we utilize a futures ordering program, which allows retailers to order five to six months in advance of delivery with the commitment that their orders will be delivered within a set period of time at a fixed price. our futures ordering program allows us to minimize the amount of products we hold in inventory, purchasing costs, the time necessary to fill customer orders and the risk of non-delivery. we currently report changes in futures orders in our periodic financial reports. reported futures orders are not necessarily indicative of our expectation of revenues for any future period, and the relationship between reported futures and reported revenues in a given period has become less correlated over time based on our evolving business model. differences are also due to year-over-year changes in shipment timing, changes in the mix of orders between futures and orders with shorter lead times and because the fulfillment of certain orders may fall outside of the schedule noted above. in addition, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, as well as differing levels of order cancellations, discounts and returns can cause differences in the comparisons between futures orders and actual revenues. moreover, a portion of our revenue is not derived from futures orders, including sales with short lead times, closeout nike brand footwear and apparel, all sales of nike brand equipment, the difference between retail sales and internal orders from our direct to consumer in-line stores and digital commerce operations, and sales from converse, nike golf and hurley. our futures ordering program does not prevent excess inventories or inventory shortages, which could result in decreased operating margins, reduced cash flows and harm to our business. we purchase products from manufacturers outside of our futures ordering program and in advance of customer orders, which we hold in inventory and resell to customers. there is a risk we may be unable to sell excess products ordered from manufacturers. inventory levels in excess of customer demand may result in inventory write-downs, and the sale of excess inventory at discounted prices could significantly impair our brand image and have an adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. conversely, if we underestimate consumer demand for our products or if our manufacturers fail to supply products we require at the time we need them, we may experience inventory shortages. inventory shortages might delay shipments to customers, negatively impact retailer, distributor and consumer relationships and diminish brand loyalty. the difficulty in forecasting demand also makes it difficult to estimate our future results of operations, financial condition and cash flows from period to period. a failure to accurately predict the level of demand for our products could adversely affect our net revenues and net income, and we are unlikely to forecast such effects with any certainty in advance. 9 table of contents we may be adversely affected by the financial health of our customers. we extend credit to our customers based on an assessment of a customer's financial condition, generally without requiring collateral. to assist in the scheduling of production and the shipping of our products, we offer certain customers the opportunity to place orders five to six months ahead of delivery under our futures ordering program. these advance orders may be canceled under certain conditions, and the risk of cancellation may increase when dealing with financially unstable retailers or retailers struggling with economic uncertainty. in the past, some customers have experienced financial difficulties up to and including bankruptcies, which have had an adverse effect on our sales, our ability to collect on receivables and our financial condition. when the retail economy weakens or as consumer behavior shifts, retailers may be more cautious with orders. a slowing or changing economy in our key markets could adversely affect the financial health of our customers, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. in addition, product sales are dependent in part on high quality merchandising and an appealing retail environment to attract consumers, which requires continuing investments by retailers. retailers that experience financial difficulties may fail to make such investments or delay them, resulting in lower sales and orders for our products. consolidation of retailers or concentration of retail market share among a few retailers may increase and concentrate our credit risk and impair our ability to sell products. the athletic footwear, apparel and equipment retail markets in some countries are dominated by a few large athletic footwear, apparel and equipment retailers with many stores. these retailers have in the past increased their market share by expanding through acquisitions and construction of additional stores. these situations concentrate our credit risk with a relatively small number of retailers, and, if any of these retailers were to experience a shortage of liquidity or consumer behavior shifts away from traditional retail, it would increase the risk that their outstanding payables to us may not be paid. in addition, increasing market share concentration among one or a few retailers in a particular country or region increases the risk that if any one of them substantially reduces their purchases of our products, we may be unable to find a sufficient number of other retail outlets for our products to sustain the same level of sales and revenues. our direct to consumer operations have required and will continue to require a substantial investment and commitment of resources and are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties. our direct to consumer stores have required substantial fixed investment in equipment and leasehold improvements, information systems, inventory and personnel. we have entered into substantial operating lease commitments for retail space. certain stores have been designed and built to serve as high-profile venues to promote brand awareness and marketing activities. because of their unique design elements, locations and size, these stores require substantially more investment than other stores. due to the high fixed-cost structure associated with our direct to consumer operations, a decline in sales, a shift in consumer behavior away from brick-and-mortar retail, or the closure or poor performance of individual or multiple stores could result in significant lease termination costs, write-offs of equipment and leasehold improvements and employee-related costs. many factors unique to retail operations, some of which are beyond the company's control, pose risks and uncertainties. risks include, but are not limited to: credit card fraud; mismanagement of existing retail channel partners; and inability to manage costs associated with store construction and operation. in addition, extreme weather conditions in the areas in which our stores are located could adversely affect our business. if the technology-based systems that give our customers the ability to shop with us online do not function effectively, our operating results, as well as our ability to grow our digital commerce business globally, could be materially adversely affected. many of our customers shop with us through our digital commerce website and mobile applications. increasingly, customers are using tablets and smart phones to shop online with us and with our competitors and to do comparison shopping. we are increasingly using social media and proprietary mobile applications to interact with our customers and as a means to enhance their shopping experience. any failure on our part to provide attractive, effective, reliable, user-friendly digital commerce platforms that offer a wide assortment of merchandise with rapid delivery options and that continually meet the changing expectations of online shoppers could place us at a competitive disadvantage, result in the loss of digital commerce and other sales, harm our reputation with customers, have a material adverse impact on the growth of our digital commerce business globally and could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. risks specific to our digital commerce business also include diversion of sales from our and our retailers' brick and mortar stores, difficulty in recreating the in-store experience through direct channels and liability for online content. our failure to successfully respond to these risks might adversely affect sales in our digital commerce business, as well as damage our reputation and brands. failure to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights could adversely affect our business. we periodically discover products that are counterfeit reproductions of our products or that otherwise infringe our intellectual property rights. if we are unsuccessful in enforcing our intellectual property, continued sales of these products could adversely affect our sales and our brand and could result in a shift of consumer preference away from our products. the actions we take to establish and protect our intellectual property rights may not be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others. we also may be unable to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as violations of proprietary rights. we may be subject to liability if third parties successfully claim that we infringe their intellectual property rights. defending infringement claims could be expensive and time-consuming and might result in our entering into costly license agreements. we also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development, use, importation and/or sale of certain products. we take various actions to prevent the unauthorized use and/or disclosure of our confidential information and intellectual property rights. such actions include contractual measures such as entering into non-disclosure and non-compete agreements and agreements relating to our collaborations with third parties, and providing confidential information awareness training. our controls and efforts to prevent unauthorized use and/or disclosure of confidential information and intellectual property rights might not always be effective. for example, confidential information that is related to business strategy, new technologies, mergers and acquisitions, unpublished financial results or personal data could be prematurely or inadvertently used and/or disclosed, resulting in a loss of reputation, a decline in our stock price and/or a negative impact on our market position, and could lead to damages, fines, penalties or injunctions. 10 table of contents in addition, the laws of certain countries may not protect or allow enforcement of intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. we may face significant expenses and liability in connection with the protection of our intellectual property rights, including outside the united states, and if we are unable to successfully protect our rights or resolve intellectual property conflicts with others, our business or financial condition may be adversely affected. we are subject to the risk that our licensees may not generate expected sales or maintain the value of our brands. we currently license, and expect to continue licensing, certain of our proprietary rights, such as trademarks or copyrighted material, to third parties. if our licensees fail to successfully market and sell licensed products, or fail to obtain sufficient capital or effectively manage their business operations, customer relationships, labor relationships, supplier relationships or credit risks, it could adversely affect our revenues, both directly from reduced royalties received and indirectly from reduced sales of our other products. we also rely on our licensees to help preserve the value of our brands. although we attempt to protect our brands through approval rights over the design, production processes, quality, packaging, merchandising, distribution, advertising and promotion of our licensed products, we cannot completely control the use of our licensed brands by our licensees. the misuse of a brand by a licensee could have a material adverse effect on that brand and on us. we are subject to data security and privacy risks that could negatively affect our results, operations or reputation. in addition to our own sensitive and proprietary business information, we collect transactional and personal information about our customers and users of our digital experiences, which include online distribution channels and product engagement and personal fitness applications. hackers and data thieves are increasingly sophisticated and operate large-scale and complex automated attacks. any breach of our network, or vendor systems, may result in the loss of confidential business and financial data, misappropriation of our consumers', users' or employees' personal information or a disruption of our business. any of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business, including, unwanted media attention, impairment of our consumer and customer relationships, damage to our reputation and result in lost sales and consumers, fines, or lawsuits. we also may need to expend significant resources to protect against, respond to and/or redress problems caused by any breach. in addition, we must comply with increasingly complex and rigorous regulatory standards enacted to protect business and personal data. compliance with existing and proposed laws and regulations can be costly, and any failure to comply with these regulatory standards could subject us to legal and reputational risks. misuse of or failure to secure personal information could also result in violation of data privacy laws and regulations, proceedings against the company by governmental entities or others, damage to our reputation and credibility and could have a negative impact on revenues and profits. failure of our contractors or our licensees' contractors to comply with our code of conduct, local laws and other standards could harm our business. we work with hundreds of contractors outside of the united states to manufacture our products, and we also have license agreements that permit unaffiliated parties to manufacture or contract for the manufacture of products using our intellectual property. we require the contractors that directly manufacture our products and our licensees that make products using our intellectual property (including, indirectly, their contract manufacturers) to comply with a code of conduct and other environmental, health and safety standards for the benefit of workers. we also require these contractors to comply with applicable standards for product safety. notwithstanding their contractual obligations, from time to time contractors may not comply with such standards or applicable local law or our licensees may fail to enforce such standards or applicable local law on their contractors. significant or continuing noncompliance with such standards and laws by one or more contractors could harm our reputation or result in a product recall and, as a result, could have an adverse effect on our sales and financial condition. our international operations involve inherent risks which could result in harm to our business. virtually all of our athletic footwear and apparel is manufactured outside of the united states, and the majority of our products are sold outside of the united states. accordingly, we are subject to the risks generally associated with global trade and doing business abroad, which include foreign laws and regulations, varying consumer preferences across geographic regions, political unrest, disruptions or delays in cross-border shipments and changes in economic conditions in countries in which our products are manufactured or where we sell products. this includes, for example, the uncertainty surrounding the effect of brexit, including changes to the legal and regulatory framework that apply to the united kingdom and its relationship with the european union, as well as the current proposals affecting trade policy in the u.s. the u.s. presidential administration has indicated a focus on policy reforms that discourage u.s. corporations from outsourcing manufacturing and production activities to foreign jurisdictions, including through potential tariffs or penalties on goods manufactured outside the u.s. if any of these reforms are implemented, it may become necessary for us to change the way we conduct business which may adversely affect our results of operations. the administration has also targeted the specific practices of certain u.s. multinational corporations in public statements which, if directed at us, could harm our reputation or otherwise negatively impact our business. in addition, disease outbreaks, terrorist acts and military conflict have increased the risks of doing business abroad. these factors, among others, could affect our ability to manufacture products or procure materials, our ability to import products, our ability to sell products in international markets and our cost of doing business. if any of these or other factors make the conduct of business in a particular country undesirable or impractical, our business could be adversely affected. in addition, many of our imported products are subject to duties, tariffs or quotas that affect the cost and quantity of various types of goods imported into the united states and other countries. any country in which our products are produced or sold may eliminate, adjust or impose new quotas, duties, tariffs, safeguard measures, anti-dumping duties, cargo restrictions to prevent terrorism, restrictions on the transfer of currency, climate change legislation, product safety regulations or other charges or restrictions, any of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 11 table of contents we could be subject to changes in tax rates, adoption of new tax laws or additional tax liabilities. we are subject to the tax laws in the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. current economic and political conditions make tax rules in any jurisdiction, including the united states, subject to significant change. there have been proposals to reform u.s. and foreign tax laws that could significantly impact how u.s. multinational corporations are taxed on foreign earnings. although we cannot predict whether or in what form these proposals will pass, several of the proposals considered, if enacted into law, could have an adverse impact on our income tax expense and cash flows. we earn a substantial portion of our income in foreign countries and are subject to the tax laws of those jurisdictions. if our capital or financing needs in the united states require us to repatriate earnings from foreign jurisdictions above our current levels, our effective income tax rates for the affected periods could be negatively impacted. portions of our operations are subject to a reduced tax rate or are free of tax under various tax holidays and rulings that expire in whole or in part from time to time. these tax holidays and rulings may be extended when certain conditions are met, or terminated if certain conditions are not met. if the tax holidays and rulings are not extended, or if we fail to satisfy the conditions of the reduced tax rate, our effective income tax rate would increase in the future. we are also subject to the examination of our tax returns by the united states internal revenue service ( irs ) and other tax authorities. we regularly assess the likelihood of an adverse outcome resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of its provision for income taxes. although we believe our tax provisions are adequate, the final determination of tax audits and any related disputes could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. the results of audits or related disputes could have an adverse effect on our financial statements for the period or periods for which the applicable final determinations are made. for example, we and our subsidiaries are engaged in a number of intercompany transactions across multiple tax jurisdictions. although we believe we have clearly reflected the economics of these transactions and the proper local transfer pricing documentation is in place, tax authorities may propose and sustain adjustments that could result in changes that may impact our mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates. proposed changes to u.s. tax law or policy, tariff and import/export regulations may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. during, and following, the recent u.s. presidential election, there has been discussion and commentary regarding potential significant changes to u.s. trade policies, legislation, treaties and tariffs, including nafta and trade policies and tariffs affecting china. there have also been discussions of a disallowance of tax deductions for imported merchandise or the imposition of unilateral tariffs on imported products. it is unknown at this time whether and to what extent new legislation will be passed into law, pending or new regulatory proposals will be adopted, international trade agreements will be negotiated, or the effect that any such action would have, either positively or negatively, on our industry, or on us. the company, similar to many other multinational corporations, does a significant amount of business that would be impacted by these changes. if any new legislation and/or regulations are implemented, or if existing trade agreements are renegotiated, it may be time-consuming and expensive for us to alter our business operations in order to adapt to or comply with such changes. such operational changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if one or more of our counterparty financial institutions default on their obligations to us or fail, we may incur significant losses. as part of our hedging activities, we enter into transactions involving derivative financial instruments, which may include forward contracts, commodity futures contracts, option contracts, collars and swaps with various financial institutions. in addition, we have significant amounts of cash, cash equivalents and other investments on deposit or in accounts with banks or other financial institutions in the united states and abroad. as a result, we are exposed to the risk of default by or failure of counterparty financial institutions. the risk of counterparty default or failure may be heightened during economic downturns and periods of uncertainty in the financial markets. if one of our counterparties were to become insolvent or file for bankruptcy, our ability to recover losses incurred as a result of default or our assets that are deposited or held in accounts with such counterparty may be limited by the counterparty's liquidity or the applicable laws governing the insolvency or bankruptcy proceedings. in the event of default or failure of one or more of our counterparties, we could incur significant losses, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. we rely on a concentrated source base of contract manufacturers to supply a significant portion of our footwear products. nike is supplied by approximately 127 footwear factories located in 15 countries. we do not own or operate any of our own footwear manufacturing facilities and depend upon independent contract manufacturers to manufacture all of the footwear products we sell. in fiscal 2017 , five footwear contract manufacturers each accounted for greater than 10% of fiscal 2017 footwear production and in aggregate accounted for approximately 69% of nike brand footwear production in fiscal 2017 . our ability to meet our customers' needs depends on our ability to maintain a steady supply of products from our independent contract manufacturers. if one or more of our significant suppliers were to sever their relationship with us or significantly alter the terms of our relationship, we may not be able to obtain replacement products in a timely manner, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales, financial condition or results of operations. additionally, if any of our primary contract manufacturers fail to make timely shipments, do not meet our quality standards or otherwise fail to deliver us product in accordance with our plans, there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our products are subject to risks associated with overseas sourcing, manufacturing and financing. the principal materials used in our apparel products natural and synthetic fabrics and threads, specialized performance fabrics designed to efficiently wick moisture away from the body, retain heat or repel rain and/or snow as well as plastic and metal hardware are available in countries where our manufacturing takes place. the principal materials used in our footwear products natural and synthetic rubber, plastic compounds, foam cushioning materials, natural and synthetic leather, natural and synthetic fabrics and threads, nylon, canvas and polyurethane films are also locally available to manufacturers. both our apparel and footwear products are dependent upon the ability of our unaffiliated contract manufacturers to locate, train, employ and retain adequate personnel. nike contractors and suppliers buy raw materials and are subject to wage rates that are oftentimes regulated by the governments of the countries in which our products are manufactured. 12 table of contents there could be a significant disruption in the supply of fabrics or raw materials from current sources or, in the event of a disruption, our contract manufacturers might not be able to locate alternative suppliers of materials of comparable quality at an acceptable price or at all. further, our unaffiliated contract manufacturers have experienced and may continue to experience in the future, unexpected increases in work wages, whether government mandated or otherwise and increases in compliance costs due to governmental regulation concerning certain metals used in the manufacturing of our products. in addition, we cannot be certain that our unaffiliated manufacturers will be able to fill our orders in a timely manner. if we experience significant increases in demand, or reductions in the availability of materials, or need to replace an existing manufacturer, there can be no assurance that additional supplies of fabrics or raw materials or additional manufacturing capacity will be available when required on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all, or that any supplier or manufacturer would allocate sufficient capacity to us in order to meet our requirements. in addition, even if we are able to expand existing or find new manufacturing or sources of materials, we may encounter delays in production and added costs as a result of the time it takes to train suppliers and manufacturers in our methods, products, quality control standards and labor, health and safety standards. any delays, interruption or increased costs in labor or wages, or the supply of materials or manufacture of our products could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet retail customer and consumer demand for our products and result in lower revenues and net income both in the short- and long-term. because independent manufacturers make a majority of our products outside of our principal sales markets, our products must be transported by third parties over large geographic distances. delays in the shipment or delivery of our products due to the availability of transportation, work stoppages, port strikes, infrastructure congestion or other factors, and costs and delays associated with consolidating or transitioning between manufacturers, could adversely impact our financial performance. in addition, manufacturing delays or unexpected demand for our products may require us to use faster, but more expensive, transportation methods such as air freight, which could adversely affect our profit margins. the cost of oil is a significant component in manufacturing and transportation costs, so increases in the price of petroleum products can adversely affect our profit margins. current u.s. trade policy proposals, including potential changes to import tariffs and existing trade policies and agreements, could also have a significant impact on our activities in foreign jurisdictions, and could adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, sojitz america performs significant import-export financing services for the company. during fiscal 2017, sojitz america provided financing and purchasing services for nike brand products sold in certain nike markets including argentina, uruguay, brazil, canada, india, south africa and thailand (collectively the sojitz markets ), excluding products produced and sold in the same country. any failure of sojitz america to provide these services or any failure of sojitz america's banks could disrupt our ability to acquire products from our suppliers and to deliver products to our customers in the sojitz markets. such a disruption could result in canceled orders that would adversely affect sales and profitability. our success depends on our global distribution facilities. we distribute our products to customers directly from the factory and through distribution centers located throughout the world. our ability to meet customer expectations, manage inventory, complete sales and achieve objectives for operating efficiencies and growth, particularly in emerging markets, depends on the proper operation of our distribution facilities, the development or expansion of additional distribution capabilities and the timely performance of services by third parties (including those involved in shipping product to and from our distribution facilities). our distribution facilities could be interrupted by information technology problems and disasters such as earthquakes or fires. any significant failure in our distribution facilities could result in an adverse effect on our business. we maintain business interruption insurance, but it may not adequately protect us from adverse effects that could be caused by significant disruptions in our distribution facilities. we rely significantly on information technology to operate our business, including our supply chain and retail operations, and any failure, inadequacy or interruption of that technology could harm our ability to effectively operate our business. we are heavily dependent on information technology systems and networks, including the internet and third-party services ( information technology systems ), across our supply chain, including product design, production, forecasting, ordering, manufacturing, transportation, sales and distribution, as well as for processing financial information for external and internal reporting purposes, retail operations and other business activities. information technology systems are critical to many of our operating activities and our business processes and may be negatively impacted by any service interruption or shutdown. for example, our ability to effectively manage and maintain our inventory and to ship products to customers on a timely basis depends significantly on the reliability of these information technology systems. over a number of years, we have implemented information technology systems in all of the geographical regions in which we operate. our work to integrate, secure and enhance these systems and related processes in our global operations is ongoing and nike will continue to invest in these efforts. the failure of these systems to operate effectively, including as a result of security breaches, viruses, hackers, malware, natural disasters, vendor business interruptions or other causes, or failure to properly maintain, protect, repair or upgrade systems, or problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems could cause delays in product fulfillment and reduced efficiency of our operations, could require significant capital investments to remediate the problem and may have an adverse effect on our reputation, results of operations and financial condition. we also use information technology systems to process financial information and results of operations for internal reporting purposes and to comply with regulatory financial reporting, legal and tax requirements. if information technology systems suffer severe damage, disruption or shutdown and our business continuity plans, or those of our vendors, do not effectively resolve the issues in a timely manner, we could experience delays in reporting our financial results, which could result in lost revenues and profits, as well as reputational damage. furthermore, we depend on information technology systems and personal data collection and use for digital marketing, digital commerce, consumer engagement and the marketing and use of our digital products and services. we also rely on our ability to engage in electronic communications throughout the world between and among our employees as well as with other third parties, including customers, suppliers, vendors and consumers. any interruption in information technology systems may impede our ability to engage in the digital space and result in lost revenues, damage to our reputation, and loss of users. 13 table of contents the market for prime real estate is competitive. our ability to effectively obtain real estate to open new retail stores and otherwise conduct our operations, both domestically and internationally, depends on the availability of real estate that meets our criteria for traffic, square footage, co-tenancies, lease economics, demographics and other factors. we also must be able to effectively renew our existing real estate leases. in addition, from time to time, we seek to downsize, consolidate, reposition or close some of our real estate locations, which may require modification of an existing lease. failure to secure adequate new locations or successfully modify leases for existing locations, or failure to effectively manage the profitability of our existing fleet of retail stores, could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. additionally, the economic environment may at times make it difficult to determine the fair market rent of real estate properties domestically and internationally. this could impact the quality of our decisions to exercise lease options at previously negotiated rents and to renew expiring leases at negotiated rents. any adverse effect on the quality of these decisions could impact our ability to retain real estate locations adequate to meet our targets or efficiently manage the profitability of our existing fleet of stores, which could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. extreme weather conditions and natural disasters could negatively impact our operating results and financial condition. extreme weather conditions in the areas in which our retail stores, suppliers, customers, distribution centers and vendors are located could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. moreover, natural disasters such as earthquakes, hurricanes and tsunamis, whether occurring in the united states or abroad, and their related consequences and effects, including energy shortages and public health issues, could disrupt our operations, the operations of our vendors and other suppliers or result in economic instability that may negatively impact our operating results and financial condition. our financial results may be adversely affected if substantial investments in businesses and operations fail to produce expected returns. from time to time, we may invest in technology, business infrastructure, new businesses, product offering and manufacturing innovation and expansion of existing businesses, such as our digital commerce operations, which require substantial cash investments and management attention. we believe cost-effective investments are essential to business growth and profitability. however, significant investments are subject to typical risks and uncertainties inherent in developing a new business or expanding an existing business. the failure of any significant investment to provide expected returns or profitability could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and divert management attention from more profitable business operations. we are subject to litigation and other legal and regulatory proceedings, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. as a multinational corporation with operations and distribution channels throughout the world, we are involved in various types of claims, lawsuits, regulatory proceedings and government investigations relating to our business, our products and the actions of our employees and representatives, including contractual and employment relationships, product liability claims, trademark rights and a variety of other matters. it is not possible to predict with certainty the outcome of any such legal or regulatory proceedings or investigations, and we could in the future incur judgments, fines or penalties, or enter into settlements of lawsuits and claims that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and negatively impact our reputation. the global nature of our business means that legal and compliance risks will continue to exist and additional legal proceedings and other contingencies will arise from time to time, which could adversely affect us. in addition, any current or future legal or regulatory proceedings could divert management's attention from our operations and result in substantial legal fees. we depend on key personnel, the loss of whom would harm our business. our future success will depend in part on the continued service of key executive officers and personnel. the loss of the services of any key individual could harm our business. our future success also depends on our ability to recruit, retain and engage our personnel sufficiently, both to maintain our current business and to execute our strategic initiatives. competition for employees in our industry is intense and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. the sale of a large number of shares of common stock by our principal stockholder could depress the market price of our common stock. as of june 30, 2017, swoosh, llc beneficially owned more than 78% of our class a common stock. if, on june 30, 2017, all of these shares were converted into class b common stock, the commensurate ownership percentage of our class b common stock would be approximately 16%. the shares are available for resale, subject to the requirements of the u.s. securities laws and the terms of the limited liability company agreement governing swoosh, llc. the sale or prospect of a sale of a substantial number of these shares could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. swoosh, llc was formed by philip h. knight, our chairman emeritus, to hold the majority of his shares of class a common stock. on june 30, 2016, mr. knight sold his voting interest in swoosh, llc to a trust controlled by his son and nike director, travis knight. changes in our credit ratings or macroeconomic conditions may affect our liquidity, increasing borrowing costs and limiting our financing options. our long-term debt is currently rated investment grade by standard &amp; poor's and moody's investors service. if our credit ratings are lowered, borrowing costs for future long-term debt or short-term credit facilities may increase and our financing options, including our access to the unsecured credit market, could be limited. we may also be subject to restrictive covenants that would reduce our flexibility to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, make restricted payments, pledge assets as security, make investments, loans, advances, guarantees and acquisitions, undergo fundamental changes and enter into transactions with affiliates. failure to comply with such covenants could result in a default, and as a result, the commitments of our lenders under our credit agreements may be terminated and the maturity of amounts owed may be accelerated. in addition, macroeconomic conditions, such as increased volatility or disruption in the credit markets, could adversely affect our ability to refinance existing debt. 14 table of contents if our internal controls are ineffective, our operating results could be adversely affected. our internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls or fraud. even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in their implementation, our business and operating results could be harmed and we could fail to meet our financial reporting obligations. if our estimates or judgments relating to our critical accounting policies prove to be incorrect, our operating results could be adversely affected. the preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. we base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, as provided in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. the results of these estimates form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets, liabilities and equity, and the amount of revenue and expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources. significant assumptions and estimates used in preparing our consolidated financial statements include those related to revenue recognition, allowance for uncollectible accounts receivable, inventory reserves, contingent payments under endorsement contracts, accounting for property, plant and equipment and definite-lived assets, hedge accounting for derivatives, stock-based compensation, income taxes and other contingencies. our operating results may be adversely affected if our assumptions change or if actual circumstances differ from those in our assumptions, which could cause our operating results to fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in the price of our class b common stock. anti-takeover provisions may impair an acquisition of the company or reduce the price of our common stock. there are provisions of our articles of incorporation and oregon law that are intended to protect shareholder interests by providing the board of directors a means to attempt to deny coercive takeover attempts or to negotiate with a potential acquirer in order to obtain more favorable terms. such provisions include a control share acquisition statute, a freeze-out statute, two classes of stock that vote separately on certain issues, and the fact that holders of class a common stock elect three-quarters of the board of directors rounded down to the next whole number. however, such provisions could discourage, delay or prevent an unsolicited merger, acquisition or other change in control of our company that some shareholders might believe to be in their best interests or in which shareholders might receive a premium for their common stock over the prevailing market price. these provisions could also discourage proxy contests for control of the company. we may fail to meet market expectations, which could cause the price of our stock to decline. our class b common stock is traded publicly, and at any given time various securities analysts follow our financial results and issue reports on us. these reports include information about our historical financial results as well as analysts' estimates of our future performance. analysts' estimates are based upon their own opinions and are often different from our estimates or expectations. if our operating results are below the estimates or expectations of public market analysts and investors, our stock price could decline. in the past, securities class action litigation has been brought against nike and other companies following a decline in the market price of their securities. if our stock price is volatile for any reason, we may become involved in this type of litigation in the future. any litigation could result in reputational damage, substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources that are needed to successfully run our business. 15 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 42 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in the normal course of business and consistent with established policies and procedures, we employ a variety of financial instruments to manage exposure to fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies and interest rates. it is our policy to utilize these financial instruments only where necessary to finance our business and manage such exposures; we do not enter into these transactions for trading or speculative purposes. we are exposed to foreign currency fluctuations, primarily as a result of our international sales, product sourcing and funding activities. our foreign exchange risk management program is intended to lessen both the positive and negative effects of currency fluctuations on our consolidated results of operations, financial position and cash flows. we use forward and option contracts to hedge certain anticipated, but not yet firmly committed, transactions as well as certain firm commitments and the related receivables and payables, including third-party and intercompany transactions. we have, in the past, and may in the future, also use forward or options contracts to hedge our investment in the net assets of certain international subsidiaries to offset foreign currency translation adjustments related to our net investment in those subsidiaries. where exposures are hedged, our program has the effect of delaying the impact of exchange rate movements on our consolidated financial statements. the timing for hedging exposures, as well as the type and duration of the hedge instruments employed, are guided by our hedging policies and determined based upon the nature of the exposure and prevailing market conditions. typically, the company may enter into hedge contracts starting up to 12 to 24 months in advance of the forecasted transaction and may place incremental hedges up to 100% of the exposure by the time the forecasted transaction occurs. the majority of derivatives outstanding as of may 31, 2017 are designated as foreign currency cash flow hedges, primarily for euro/u.s. dollar, british pound/euro and japanese yen/u.s. dollar currency pairs. refer to note 16 risk management and derivatives in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements for additional detail. our earnings are also exposed to movements in short- and long-term market interest rates. our objective in managing this interest rate exposure is to limit the impact of interest rate changes on earnings and cash flows and to reduce overall borrowing costs. to achieve these objectives, we maintain a mix of commercial paper, bank loans, and fixed-rate debt of varying maturities. market risk measurement we monitor foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk and related derivatives using a variety of techniques including a review of market value, sensitivity analysis and value-at-risk ( var ). our market-sensitive derivative and other financial instruments are foreign currency forward contracts, foreign currency option contracts, interest rate swaps, intercompany loans denominated in non-functional currencies, fixed interest rate u.s. dollar denominated debt and fixed interest rate japanese yen denominated debt. we use var to monitor the foreign exchange risk of our foreign currency forward and foreign currency option derivative instruments only. the var determines the maximum potential one-day loss in the fair value of these foreign exchange rate-sensitive financial instruments. the var model estimates assume normal market conditions and a 95% confidence level. there are various modeling techniques that can be used in the var computation. our computations are based on interrelationships between currencies and interest rates (a variance/co-variance technique). these interrelationships are a function of foreign exchange currency market changes and interest rate changes over the preceding one year period. the value of foreign currency options does not change on a one-to-one basis with changes in the underlying currency rate. we adjust the potential loss in option value for the estimated sensitivity (the delta and gamma ) to changes in the underlying currency rate. this calculation reflects the impact of foreign currency rate fluctuations on the derivative instruments only and does not include the impact of such rate fluctuations on non-functional currency transactions (such as anticipated transactions, firm commitments, cash balances and accounts and loans receivable and payable), including those which are hedged by these instruments. the var model is a risk analysis tool and does not purport to represent actual losses in fair value that we will incur nor does it consider the potential effect of favorable changes in market rates. it also does not represent the full extent of the possible loss that may occur. actual future gains and losses will differ from those estimated because of changes or differences in market rates and interrelationships, hedging instruments and hedge percentages, timing and other factors. the estimated maximum one-day loss in fair value on our foreign currency sensitive derivative financial instruments, derived using the var model, was $97 million and $109 million at may 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. the var decreased year-over-year as a result of a decrease in foreign currency volatilities at may 31, 2017. such a hypothetical loss in the fair value of our derivatives would be offset by increases in the value of the underlying transactions being hedged. the average monthly change in the fair values of foreign currency forward and foreign currency option derivative instruments was $161 million and $209 million during fiscal 2017 and fiscal 2016, respectively. the instruments not included in the var are intercompany loans denominated in non-functional currencies, fixed interest rate japanese yen denominated debt, fixed interest rate u.s. dollar denominated debt and interest rate swaps. intercompany loans and related interest amounts are eliminated in consolidation. furthermore, our non-functional currency intercompany loans are substantially hedged against foreign exchange risk through the use of forward contracts, which are included in the var calculation above. therefore, we consider the interest rate and foreign currency market risks associated with our non-functional currency intercompany loans to be immaterial to our consolidated financial position, results from operations and cash flows. details of third-party debt are provided in the table below. the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates. 42 table of contents expected maturity date year ending may 31, (dollars in millions) 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 thereafter total fair value foreign exchange risk japanese yen functional currency long-term japanese yen debt fixed rate principal payments $ 6 $ 6 $ 6 $ 3 $ $ $ 21 $ 22 average interest rate 2.4 % 2.4 % 2.4 % 2.4 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 2.4 % interest rate risk japanese yen functional currency long-term japanese yen debt fixed rate principal payments $ 6 $ 6 $ 6 $ 3 $ $ $ 21 $ 22 average interest rate 2.4 % 2.4 % 2.4 % 2.4 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 2.4 % u.s. dollar functional currency long-term u.s. dollar debt fixed rate principal payments $ $ $ $ $ $ 3,500 $ 3,500 $ 3,379 average interest rate 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 3.1 % 3.1 % the fixed interest rate japanese yen denominated debt instruments were issued by and are accounted for by one of our japanese subsidiaries. accordingly, the monthly translation of these instruments, which varies due to changes in foreign exchange rates, is recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income upon consolidation of this subsidiary.risk factors 6 risk factors. we report our nike brand operations based on our internal geographic organization. each nike brand geographic segment operates predominantly in one industry: the design, development, marketing and selling of athletic footwear, apparel and equipment. in june 2017, we announced a new company alignment designed to allow nike to better serve the consumer personally, at scale. as a result of this organizational realignment, the company's reportable operating segments for the nike brand are: north america; europe, middle east &amp; africa (emea); greater china; and asia pacific &amp; latin america (apla), and include results for the nike, jordan and hurley brands. sales through our nike direct operations are managed within each geographic operating segment. converse is also a reportable segment and operates in one industry: the design, marketing, licensing and selling of casual sneakers, apparel and accessories. converse direct to consumer operations, including digital commerce, are reported within the converse operating segment results. united states market for fiscal 2018 , nike brand and converse sales in the united states accounted for approximately 42% of total revenues, compared to 46% and 47% for fiscal 2017 and fiscal 2016 , respectively. we sell our nike brand, jordan brand, hurley and converse products to thousands of retail accounts in the united states, including a mix of footwear stores, sporting goods stores, athletic specialty stores, department stores, skate, tennis and golf shops and other retail accounts. in the united states, we utilize nike sales offices to solicit such sales. during fiscal 2018 , our three largest customers accounted for approximately 21% of sales in the united states. our nike direct and converse direct to consumer operations sell nike brand, jordan brand, hurley and converse products to consumers through various digital platforms. in addition, our nike direct and converse direct to consumer operations sell through the following number of retail stores in the united states: u.s. retail stores number nike brand factory stores 220 nike brand in-line stores (including employee-only stores) 31 converse stores (including factory stores) 112 hurley stores (including factory and employee stores) 29 total 392 in the united states, nike has seven significant distribution centers. five are located in memphis, tennessee, two of which are owned and three of which are leased. two other distribution centers, one located in indianapolis, indiana, and one located in dayton, tennessee, are leased and operated by third-party logistics providers. nike brand apparel and equipment are also shipped from our foothill ranch, california distribution center, which we lease. smaller leased, and third-party leased and operated, distribution facilities are located in various parts of the united states. international markets for fiscal 2018 , non-u.s. nike brand and converse sales accounted for approximately 58% of total revenues, compared to 54% and 53% for fiscal 2017 and fiscal 2016 , respectively. we sell our products to retail accounts, through our own nike direct operations and through a mix of independent distributors, licensees and sales representatives around the world. we sell to thousands of retail accounts and ship products from 62 distribution centers outside of the united states. during fiscal 2018 , nike's three largest customers outside of the united states accounted for approximately 13% of total non-u.s. sales. in addition to nike and converse owned digital commerce platforms in over 45 countries, our nike direct and converse direct to consumer businesses operate the following number of retail stores outside the united states: non-u.s. retail stores number nike brand factory stores 664 nike brand in-line stores (including employee-only stores) 65 converse stores (including factory stores) 61 total 790 2 table of contents international branch offices and subsidiaries of nike are located in argentina, australia, austria, belgium, bermuda, brazil, canada, chile, china, croatia, the czech republic, denmark, finland, france, germany, greece, hong kong, hungary, india, indonesia, ireland, israel, italy, japan, korea, macau, malaysia, mexico, the netherlands, new zealand, norway, panama, the philippines, poland, portugal, russia, singapore, slovakia, slovenia, south africa, spain, sri lanka, sweden, switzerland, taiwan, thailand, turkey, the united arab emirates, the united kingdom, uruguay and vietnam. significant customer no customer accounted for 10% or more of our worldwide net revenues during fiscal 2018 . product research, design and development we believe our research, design and development efforts are key factors in our success. technical innovation in the design and manufacturing process of footwear, apparel and athletic equipment receives continued emphasis as we strive to produce products that help to enhance athletic performance, reduce injury and maximize comfort, while reducing waste. in addition to our own staff of specialists in the areas of biomechanics, chemistry, exercise physiology, engineering, industrial design, sustainability and related fields, we also utilize research committees and advisory boards made up of athletes, coaches, trainers, equipment managers, orthopedists, podiatrists and other experts who consult with us and review designs, materials, concepts for product and manufacturing process improvements and compliance with product safety regulations around the world. employee athletes, athletes engaged under sports marketing contracts and other athletes wear-test and evaluate products during the design and development process. as we continue to develop new technologies, we are simultaneously focused on the design of innovative products incorporating such technologies throughout our product categories. using market intelligence and research, our various design teams identify opportunities to leverage new technologies in existing categories responding to consumer preferences. the proliferation of nike air, lunar, zoom, free, flywire, dri-fit, flyknit, flyweave, zoomx, react and nike+ technologies throughout our running, nike basketball, jordan brand, football (soccer), training and sportswear categories, among others, typifies our dedication to designing innovative products. manufacturing we are supplied by 124 footwear factories located in 13 countries. the largest single footwear factory accounted for approximately 9% of total fiscal 2018 nike brand footwear production. virtually all of our footwear is manufactured outside of the united states by independent contract manufacturers which often operate multiple factories. for fiscal 2018 , contract factories in vietnam, china and indonesia manufactured approximately 47%, 26% and 21% of total nike brand footwear, respectively. we also have manufacturing agreements with independent contract manufacturers in argentina, india, brazil, mexico and italy to manufacture footwear for sale primarily within those countries. for fiscal 2018 , five footwear contract manufacturers each accounted for greater than 10% of footwear production and in the aggregate accounted for approximately 69% of nike brand footwear production. we are supplied by 328 apparel factories located in 37 countries. the largest single apparel factory accounted for approximately 13% of total fiscal 2018 nike brand apparel production. virtually all of our apparel is manufactured outside of the united states by independent contract manufacturers which often operate multiple factories. for fiscal 2018 , contract factories in china, vietnam and thailand produced approximately 26%, 18% and 10% of total nike brand apparel, respectively. for fiscal 2018 , one apparel contract manufacturer accounted for more than 10% of apparel production, and the top five contract manufacturers in the aggregate accounted for approximately 47% of nike brand apparel production. the principal materials used in our footwear products are natural and synthetic rubber, plastic compounds, foam cushioning materials, natural and synthetic leather, nylon, polyester and canvas, as well as polyurethane films used to make nike air-sole cushioning components. during fiscal 2018 , air manufacturing innovation, with facilities near beaverton, oregon and in st. charles, missouri, as well as independent contractors in china and vietnam, were our suppliers of the air-sole cushioning components used in footwear. the principal materials used in our apparel products are natural and synthetic fabrics and threads (both virgin and recycled); specialized performance fabrics designed to efficiently wick moisture away from the body, retain heat and repel rain and/or snow; and plastic and metal hardware. nike's independent contractors and suppliers buy raw materials for the manufacturing of our footwear, apparel and equipment products. most raw materials are available and purchased by those independent contractors and suppliers in the countries where manufacturing takes place. nike's independent contract manufacturers and suppliers have thus far experienced little difficulty in satisfying raw material requirements for the production of our products. since 1972, sojitz corporation of america ( sojitz america ), a large japanese trading company and the sole owner of our redeemable preferred stock, has performed significant import-export financing services for us. during fiscal 2018 , sojitz america provided financing and purchasing services for nike brand products sold in certain nike markets including argentina, brazil, canada, india, south africa and uruguay, excluding products produced and sold in the same country. approximately 6% of nike brand sales occurred in those countries. any failure of sojitz america to provide these services or any failure of sojitz america's banks could disrupt our ability to acquire products from our suppliers and to deliver products to our customers in those markets. such a disruption could result in canceled orders that would adversely affect sales and profitability. however, we believe that any such disruption would be short-term in duration due to the ready availability of alternative sources of financing at competitive rates. our current agreements with sojitz america expire on may 31, 2019. international operations and trade our international operations and sources of supply are subject to the usual risks of doing business abroad, such as the implementation of, or potential changes in, foreign and domestic trade policies, increases in import duties, anti-dumping measures, quotas, safeguard measures, trade restrictions, restrictions on the transfer of funds and, in certain parts of the world, political instability and terrorism. we have not, to date, been materially affected by any such risk, but cannot predict the likelihood of such material effects occurring in the future. 3 table of contents in recent years, uncertain global and regional economic and political conditions have affected international trade and increased protectionist actions around the world. these trends are affecting many global manufacturing and service sectors, and the footwear and apparel industries, as a whole, are not immune. companies in our industry are facing trade protectionism in many different regions, and in nearly all cases we are working together with industry groups to address trade issues and reduce the impact to the industry, while observing applicable competition laws. notwithstanding our efforts, protectionist measures have resulted in increases in the cost of our products, and additional measures, if implemented, could adversely affect sales and/or profitability for nike, as well as the imported footwear and apparel industry as a whole. we monitor protectionist trends and developments throughout the world that may materially impact our industry, and we engage in administrative and judicial processes to mitigate trade restrictions. we are actively monitoring actions that may result in additional anti-dumping measures and could affect our industry. we are also monitoring for and advocating against other impediments that may limit or delay customs clearance for imports of footwear, apparel and equipment. changes in u.s. trade policies, including new and potential tariffs or penalties on imported goods, may negatively affect u.s. corporations with production activities outside the u.s., including nike. there have also been discussions and commentary regarding retaliatory actions by countries affected by the new tariffs and other changes in u.s. trade policy, and certain foreign governments have instituted or are considering imposing trade sanctions on certain u.s. goods, which could negatively affect u.s. corporations with business operations and/or consumer markets in those countries. depending on the extent that certain new or proposed reforms are implemented by the u.s. government and the manner in which foreign governments respond to such reforms, it may become necessary for us to change the way we conduct business, which may adversely affect our results of operations. in addition , with respect to proposed trade restrictions targeting china, which represents an important sourcing country and consumer market for us, we are working with a broad coalition of global businesses and trade associations representing a wide variety of sectors to help ensure that any legislation enacted and implemented (i) addresses legitimate and core concerns, (ii) is consistent with international trade rules and (iii) reflects and considers china ' domestic economy and the important role it has in the global economic community. where trade protection measures are implemented, we believe that we have the ability to develop, over a period of time, adequate alternative sources of supply for the products obtained from our present suppliers. if events prevented us from acquiring products from our suppliers in a particular country, our operations could be temporarily disrupted and we could experience an adverse financial impact. however, we believe we could abate any such disruption, and that much of the adverse impact on supply would, therefore, be of a short-term nature, although alternate sources of supply might not be as cost-effective and could have an ongoing adverse impact on profitability. nike advocates for trade liberalization for footwear and apparel in a number of regional and bilateral free trade agreements. our international operations are also subject to compliance with the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, or fcpa, and other anti-bribery laws applicable to our operations. we source a significant portion of our products from, and have important consumer markets, outside of the united states, and we have policies and procedures to address compliance with the fcpa and similar laws by us, our employees, agents, suppliers and other partners. competition the athletic footwear, apparel and equipment industry is highly competitive on a worldwide basis. we compete internationally with a significant number of athletic and leisure footwear companies, athletic and leisure apparel companies, sports equipment companies and large companies having diversified lines of athletic and leisure footwear, apparel and equipment, including adidas, anta, asics, li ning, lululemon athletica, puma, under armour and v.f. corporation, among others. the intense competition and the rapid changes in technology and consumer preferences in the markets for athletic and leisure footwear and apparel and athletic equipment, constitute significant risk factors in our operations. nike is the largest seller of athletic footwear and apparel in the world. important aspects of competition in this industry are: product attributes such as quality; performance and reliability; new product innovation and development and consumer price/value. consumer connection and affinity for brands and products, developed through marketing and promotion; social media interaction; customer support and service; identification with prominent and influential athletes, public figures, coaches, teams, colleges and sports leagues who endorse our brands and use our products and active engagement through sponsored sporting events and clinics. effective sourcing and distribution of products, with attractive merchandising and presentation at retail, both in-store and online. we believe that we are competitive in all of these areas. trademarks and patents we believe that our intellectual property rights are important to our brand, our success and our competitive position. we pursue available protections of these rights and vigorously protect them against third-party theft and infringement. we utilize trademarks on nearly all of our products and believe having distinctive marks that are readily identifiable is an important factor in creating a market for our goods, in identifying our brands and the company, and in distinguishing our goods from the goods of others. we consider our nike and swoosh trademarks to be among our most valuable assets and we have registered these trademarks in almost 170 jurisdictions worldwide. in addition, we own many other trademarks that we utilize in marketing our products. we own common law rights in the trade dress of several significant shoe designs and elements. for certain trade dress, we have sought and obtained trademark registrations. we have copyright protection in our design, graphics and other original works. in some instances, we also obtain registered copyrights. we own patents and have a license under other patents, which facilitate our use of air technologies. we file for, own and maintain many u.s. and foreign utility patents, as well as many u.s. and foreign design patents protecting components, technologies, materials, manufacturing techniques, features, functionality, and industrial and aesthetic designs used in and for the manufacture of various athletic and leisure footwear and apparel, athletic equipment and digital devices and related software applications. these patents expire at various times. 4 table of contents we believe our success depends upon our capabilities in areas such as design, research and development, production and marketing rather than exclusively upon our patent and trade secret positions. however, we have followed a policy of filing patent applications in the united states and select foreign countries on inventions, designs and improvements that we deem valuable. we also continue to vigorously protect our trademarks and patents against third-party infringement. employees as of may 31, 2018 , we had approximately 73,100 employees worldwide, including retail and part-time employees. management is committed to maintaining an environment where all nike employees have the opportunity to reach their full potential. none of our employees are represented by a union, except for certain employees in the asia pacific &amp; latin america geography, where local law requires those employees to be represented by a trade union. also, in some countries outside of the united states, local laws require employee representation by works councils (which may be entitled to information and consultation on certain company decisions) or by organizations similar to a union. in certain european countries, we are required by local law to enter into and/or comply with industry-wide or national collective bargaining agreements. nike has never experienced a material interruption of operations due to labor disagreements. executive officers of the registrant the executive officers of nike, inc. as of july 24, 2018 are as follows: mark g. parker, chairman, president and chief executive officer mr. parker, 62, was appointed president and chief executive officer in january 2006 and named chairman of the board in june 2016. he has been employed by nike since 1979 with primary responsibilities in product research, design and development, marketing and brand management. mr. parker was appointed divisional vice president in charge of product development in 1987, corporate vice president in 1989, general manager in 1993, vice president of global footwear in 1998 and president of the nike brand in 2001. chris l. abston, vice president and corporate controller mr. abston, 55, joined nike in 2015 from wal-mart stores, inc., where he served as vice president, global controls and governance since february 2015. prior to that he was vice president and controller of walmart international from february 2013 to january 2015, responsible for the oversight of international accounting and reporting, and vice president and assistant controller of wal-mart stores, inc. from may 2011 to january 2013. before joining wal-mart, mr. abston spent 25 years in public accounting with ernst &amp; young llp, most recently leading its strategic growth markets practice as a partner in the dallas office. andrew campion, executive vice president and chief financial officer mr. campion, 46, joined nike in 2007 as vice president of global planning and development, leading strategic and financial planning. he was appointed chief financial officer of the nike brand in 2010, responsible for leading all aspects of financial management for the company's flagship brand. in 2014, he was appointed senior vice president, strategy, finance and investor relations in addition to his role as chief financial officer of nike brand. mr. campion assumed the role of executive vice president and chief financial officer in august 2015. prior to joining nike, he held leadership roles in strategic planning, mergers and acquisitions, financial planning and analysis, operations and planning, investor relations and tax at the walt disney company from 1996 to 2007. elliott hill, president, consumer and marketplace mr. hill, 54, joined nike in 1988, with primary responsibilities in sales and retail. he has served as apparel sales director in europe, retail development director in europe, vice president of sales and retail in emea, general manager of us retail, vice president of us sales, retail and nike.com, and vice president of global retail. m ost recently, mr. hill served as president of geographies and sales and vice president and general manager of north america. mr. hill was appointed president, consumer and marketplace in march 2018. hilary k. krane, executive vice president, chief administrative officer and general counsel ms. krane, 54, joined nike as vice president and general counsel in april 2010. in 2011, her responsibilities expanded, and she became vice president, general counsel and corporate affairs. ms. krane was appointed executive vice president, chief administrative officer and general counsel in 2013. prior to joining nike, ms. krane was general counsel and senior vice president for corporate affairs at levi strauss &amp; co. from 2006 to 2010. from 1996 to 2006, she was a partner and assistant general counsel at pricewaterhousecoopers llp. monique s. matheson, executive vice president, global human resources ms. matheson, 51, joined nike in 1998, with primary responsibilities in the human resources function. she was appointed as vice president and senior business partner in 2011 and vice president, chief talent and diversity officer in 2012. ms. matheson was appointed executive vice president, global human resources in july 2017 . john f. slusher, executive vice president, global sports marketing mr. slusher, 49, joined nike in 1998, with primary responsibilities in global sports marketing. mr. slusher was appointed director of sports marketing for asia pacific and americas in 2006, divisional vice president of asia pacific &amp; americas sports marketing in september 2007 and vice president, global sports marketing in november 2007. prior to joining nike, mr. slusher was an attorney at the law firm of o'melveny &amp; myers from 1995 to 1998. eric d. sprunk, chief operating officer mr. sprunk, 54, joined nike in 1993. he was appointed finance director and general manager of the americas in 1994, finance director for nike europe in 1995, regional general manager of nike europe footwear in 1998 and vice president &amp; general manager of the americas in 2000. mr. sprunk was appointed vice president of global footwear in 2001, vice president of merchandising and product in 2009 and chief operating officer in 2013. prior to joining nike, mr. sprunk was a certified public accountant with price waterhouse from 1987 to 1993. 5 table of contents item 1a. risk factors special note regarding forward-looking statements and analyst reports certain written and oral statements, other than purely historic information, including estimates, projections, statements relating to nike's business plans, objectives and expected operating results and the assumptions upon which those statements are based, made or incorporated by reference from time to time by nike or its representatives in this report, other reports, filings with the sec, press releases, conferences or otherwise, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended. forward-looking statements include, without limitation, any statement that may predict, forecast, indicate or imply future results, performance or achievements, and may contain the words believe, anticipate, expect, estimate, project, will be, will continue, will likely result or words or phrases of similar meaning. forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties which may cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. the risks and uncertainties are detailed from time to time in reports filed by nike with the sec, including reports filed on forms 8-k, 10-q and 10-k, and include, among others, the following: international, national and local general economic and market conditions; the size and growth of the overall athletic footwear, apparel and equipment markets; intense competition among designers, marketers, distributors and sellers of athletic footwear, apparel and equipment for consumers and endorsers; demographic changes; changes in consumer preferences; popularity of particular designs, categories of products and sports; seasonal and geographic demand for nike products; difficulties in anticipating or forecasting changes in consumer preferences, consumer demand for nike products and the various market factors described above; difficulties in implementing, operating and maintaining nike's increasingly complex information technology systems and controls, including, without limitation, the systems related to demand and supply planning and inventory control; interruptions in data and information technology systems; consumer data security; fluctuations and difficulty in forecasting operating results, including, without limitation, the fact that advance orders may not be indicative of future revenues due to changes in shipment timing, the changing mix of orders with shorter lead times, and discounts, order cancellations and returns; the ability of nike to sustain, manage or forecast its growth and inventories; the size, timing and mix of purchases of nike's products; increases in the cost of materials, labor and energy used to manufacture products; new product development and introduction; the ability to secure and protect trademarks, patents and other intellectual property; product performance and quality; customer service; adverse publicity, including without limitation, through social media or in connection with brand damaging events; the loss of significant customers or suppliers; dependence on distributors and licensees; business disruptions; increased costs of freight and transportation to meet delivery deadlines; increases in borrowing costs due to any decline in nike's debt ratings; changes in business strategy or development plans; general risks associated with doing business outside of the united states, including, without limitation, exchange rate fluctuations, inflation, import duties, tariffs, quotas, political and economic instability and terrorism; the impact of recent u.s. tax reform legislation on our results of operations; the potential impact of new laws, regulations or policy, including, without limitation, tariffs, import/export, trade and immigration regulations or policies; changes in government regulations; the impact of, including business and legal developments relating to, climate change and natural disasters; litigation, regulatory proceedings and other claims asserted against nike; the ability to attract and retain qualified employees, and any negative public perception with respect to key personnel; the effects of nike's decision to invest in or divest of businesses and other factors referenced or incorporated by reference in this report and other reports. the risks included here are not exhaustive. other sections of this report may include additional factors which could adversely affect nike's business and financial performance. moreover, nike operates in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. new risks emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risks, nor can it assess the impact of all such risks on nike's business or the extent to which any risk, or combination of risks, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. investors should also be aware that while nike does, from time to time, communicate with securities analysts, it is against nike's policy to disclose to them any material non-public information or other confidential commercial information. accordingly, shareholders should not assume that nike agrees with any statement or report issued by any analyst irrespective of the content of the statement or report. furthermore, nike has a policy against issuing or confirming financial forecasts or projections issued by others. thus, to the extent that reports issued by securities analysts contain any projections, forecasts or opinions, such reports are not the responsibility of nike. our products face intense competition. nike is a consumer products company and the relative popularity of various sports and fitness activities and changing design trends affect the demand for our products. the athletic footwear, apparel and equipment industry is highly competitive both in the united states and worldwide. we compete internationally with a significant number of athletic and leisure footwear companies, athletic and leisure apparel companies, sports equipment companies and large companies having diversified lines of athletic and leisure footwear, apparel and equipment. we also compete with other companies for the production capacity of independent manufacturers that produce our products. our nike direct operations, both through our digital commerce operations and retail stores, also compete with multi-brand retailers selling our products. product offerings, technologies, marketing expenditures (including expenditures for advertising and endorsements), pricing, costs of production, customer service, digital commerce platforms and social media presence are areas of intense competition. this, in addition to rapid changes in technology and consumer preferences in the markets for athletic and leisure footwear and apparel and athletic equipment, constitute significant risk factors in our operations. in addition, the competitive nature of retail including shifts in the ways in which consumers are shopping, and the rising trend of digital commerce, constitutes a risk factor implicating our nike direct and wholesale operations. if we do not adequately and timely anticipate and respond to our competitors, our costs may increase or the consumer demand for our products may decline significantly. failure to maintain our reputation and brand image could negatively impact our business. our iconic brands have worldwide recognition, and our success depends on our ability to maintain and enhance our brand image and reputation. maintaining, promoting and growing our brands will depend on our design and marketing efforts, including advertising and consumer campaigns, product innovation and product quality. our commitment to product innovation and quality and our continuing investment in design (including materials) and marketing may not have the desired impact on our brand image and reputation. in addition, our success in maintaining, extending and expanding our brand image depends on our ability to adapt to a rapidly changing media environment, including our increasing reliance on social media and digital dissemination of advertising campaigns. we could be adversely impacted if we fail to achieve any of these objectives. 6 table of contents our brand value also depends on our ability to maintain a positive consumer perception of our corporate integrity and brand culture. negative claims or publicity involving us, our products or any of our key employees, endorsers, sponsors or suppliers could seriously damage our reputation and brand image, regardless of whether such claims are accurate. social media, which accelerates and potentially amplifies the scope of negative publicity, can increase the challenges of responding to negative claims. adverse publicity about regulatory or legal action against us, or by us, could also damage our reputation and brand image, undermine consumer confidence in us and reduce long-term demand for our products, even if the regulatory or legal action is unfounded or not material to our operations. if the reputation or image of any of our brands is tarnished or if we receive negative publicity, then our product sales, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. if we are unable to anticipate consumer preferences and develop new products, we may not be able to maintain or increase our revenues and profits. our success depends on our ability to identify, originate and define product trends as well as to anticipate, gauge and react to changing consumer demands in a timely manner. however, lead times for many of our products may make it more difficult for us to respond rapidly to new or changing product trends or consumer preferences. all of our products are subject to changing consumer preferences that cannot be predicted with certainty. our new products may not receive consumer acceptance as consumer preferences could shift rapidly to different types of performance products or away from these types of products altogether, and our future success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and respond to these changes. if we fail to anticipate accurately and respond to trends and shifts in consumer preferences by adjusting the mix of existing product offerings, developing new products, designs, styles and categories, and influencing sports and fitness preferences through extensive marketing, we could experience lower sales, excess inventories or lower profit margins, any of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. in addition, we market our products globally through a diverse spectrum of advertising and promotional programs and campaigns, including social media, mobile applications and online advertising. if we do not successfully market our products or if advertising and promotional costs increase, these factors could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we rely on technical innovation and high-quality products to compete in the market for our products. technical innovation and quality control in the design and manufacturing process of footwear, apparel and athletic equipment is essential to the commercial success of our products. research and development play a key role in technical innovation. we rely upon specialists in the fields of biomechanics, chemistry, exercise physiology, engineering, industrial design, sustainability and related fields, as well as research committees and advisory boards made up of athletes, coaches, trainers, equipment managers, orthopedists, podiatrists and other experts to develop and test cutting-edge performance products. while we strive to produce products that help to enhance athletic performance, reduce injury and maximize comfort, if we fail to introduce technical innovation in our products, consumer demand for our products could decline, and if we experience problems with the quality of our products, we may incur substantial expense to remedy the problems. failure to continue to obtain or maintain high-quality endorsers of our products could harm our business. we establish relationships with professional athletes, sports teams and leagues, as well as other public figures, to develop, evaluate and promote our products, as well as establish product authenticity with consumers. however, as competition in our industry has increased, the costs associated with establishing and retaining such sponsorships and other relationships have increased. if we are unable to maintain our current associations with professional athletes, sports teams and leagues, or other public figures, or to do so at a reasonable cost, we could lose the high visibility or on-field authenticity associated with our products, and we may be required to modify and substantially increase our marketing investments. as a result, our brands, net revenues, expenses and profitability could be harmed. furthermore, if certain endorsers were to stop using our products contrary to their endorsement agreements, our business could be adversely affected. in addition, actions taken by athletes, teams or leagues, or other endorsers, associated with our products that harm the reputations of those athletes, teams or leagues, or endorsers, could also seriously harm our brand image with consumers and, as a result, could have an adverse effect on our sales and financial condition. in addition, poor performance by our endorsers, a failure to continue to correctly identify promising athletes, or public figures, to use and endorse our products or a failure to enter into cost-effective endorsement arrangements with prominent athletes, public figures, and sports organizations could adversely affect our brand, sales and profitability. general economic factors beyond our control, and changes in the global economic environment, including fluctuations in inflation and currency exchange rates, could result in lower revenues, higher costs and decreased margins and earnings. a majority of our products are manufactured and sold outside of the united states, and we conduct purchase and sale transactions in various currencies, which increases our exposure to the volatility of global economic conditions, including fluctuations in inflation and foreign currency exchange rates. additionally, there has been, and may continue to be, volatility in currency exchange rates as a result of the united kingdom's impending exit from the european union, commonly referred to as brexit and new or proposed u.s. policy changes. our international revenues and expenses generally are derived from sales and operations in foreign currencies, and these revenues and expenses could be affected by currency fluctuations, specifically amounts recorded in foreign currencies and translated into u.s. dollars for consolidated financial reporting, as weakening of foreign currencies relative to the u.s. dollar adversely affects the u.s. dollar value of the company's foreign currency-denominated sales and earnings. currency exchange rate fluctuations could also disrupt the business of the independent manufacturers that produce our products by making their purchases of raw materials more expensive and more difficult to finance. foreign currency fluctuations have adversely affected and could continue to have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we may hedge certain foreign currency exposures to lessen and delay, but not to completely eliminate, the effects of foreign currency fluctuations on our financial results. since the hedging activities are designed to lessen volatility, they not only reduce the negative impact of a stronger u.s. dollar or other trading currency, but they also reduce the positive impact of a weaker u.s. dollar or other trading currency. our future financial results could be significantly affected by the value of the u.s. dollar in relation to the foreign currencies in which we conduct business. the degree to which our financial results are affected for any given time period will depend in part upon our hedging activities. 7 table of contents global economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. the uncertain state of the global economy continues to impact businesses around the world, most acutely in emerging markets and developing economies. if global economic and financial market conditions do not improve or deteriorate, the following factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition: slower consumer spending may result in reduced demand for our products, reduced orders from retailers for our products, order cancellations, lower revenues, higher discounts, increased inventories and lower gross margins. in the future, we may be unable to access financing in the credit and capital markets at reasonable rates in the event we find it desirable to do so. we conduct transactions in various currencies, which increases our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar. continued volatility in the markets and exchange rates for foreign currencies and contracts in foreign currencies, including in response to certain policies advocated or implemented by the u.s. presidential administration, could have a significant impact on our reported operating results and financial condition. continued volatility in the availability and prices for commodities and raw materials we use in our products and in our supply chain (such as cotton or petroleum derivatives) could have a material adverse effect on our costs, gross margins and profitability. if retailers of our products experience declining revenues or experience difficulty obtaining financing in the capital and credit markets to purchase our products, this could result in reduced orders for our products, order cancellations, late retailer payments, extended payment terms, higher accounts receivable, reduced cash flows, greater expense associated with collection efforts and increased bad debt expense. if retailers of our products experience severe financial difficulty, some may become insolvent and cease business operations, which could negatively impact the sale of our products to consumers. if contract manufacturers of our products or other participants in our supply chain experience difficulty obtaining financing in the capital and credit markets to purchase raw materials or to finance capital equipment and other general working capital needs, it may result in delays or non-delivery of shipments of our products. our business is affected by seasonality, which could result in fluctuations in our operating results. we experience moderate fluctuations in aggregate sales volume during the year. historically, revenues in the first and fourth fiscal quarters have slightly exceeded those in the second and third fiscal quarters. however, the mix of product sales may vary considerably from time to time as a result of changes in seasonal and geographic demand for particular types of footwear, apparel and equipment and in connection with the timing of significant sporting events, such as the nba finals, olympics or the world cup, among others. in addition, our customers may cancel orders, change delivery schedules or change the mix of products ordered with minimal notice. as a result, we may not be able to accurately predict our quarterly sales. accordingly, our results of operations are likely to fluctuate significantly from period to period. this seasonality, along with other factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions, changes in consumer preferences, weather conditions, availability of import quotas, transportation disruptions and currency exchange rate fluctuations, could adversely affect our business and cause our results of operations to fluctuate. our operating margins are also sensitive to a number of additional factors that are beyond our control, including manufacturing and transportation costs, shifts in product sales mix and geographic sales trends, all of which we expect to continue. results of operations in any period should not be considered indicative of the results to be expected for any future period. we may be adversely affected by the financial health of our customers. we extend credit to our customers based on an assessment of a customer's financial condition, generally without requiring collateral. to assist in the scheduling of production and the shipping of our products, we offer certain customers the opportunity to place orders five to six months ahead of delivery under our futures ordering program. these advance orders may be canceled under certain conditions, and the risk of cancellation may increase when dealing with financially unstable retailers or retailers struggling with economic uncertainty. in the past, some customers have experienced financial difficulties up to and including bankruptcies, which have had an adverse effect on our sales, our ability to collect on receivables and our financial condition. when the retail economy weakens or as consumer behavior shifts, retailers may be more cautious with orders. a slowing or changing economy in our key markets could adversely affect the financial health of our customers, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. in addition, product sales are dependent in part on high quality merchandising and an appealing retail environment to attract consumers, which requires continuing investments by retailers. retailers that experience financial difficulties may fail to make such investments or delay them, resulting in lower sales and orders for our products. failure to accurately forecast consumer demand could lead to excess inventories or inventory shortages, which could result in decreased operating margins, reduced cash flows and harm to our business. to meet anticipated demand for our products, we purchase products from manufacturers outside of our futures ordering program and in advance of customer orders, which we hold in inventory and resell to customers. there is a risk we may be unable to sell excess products ordered from manufacturers. inventory levels in excess of customer demand may result in inventory write-downs, and the sale of excess inventory at discounted prices could significantly impair our brand image and have an adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. conversely, if we underestimate consumer demand for our products or if our manufacturers fail to supply products we require at the time we need them, we may experience inventory shortages. inventory shortages might delay shipments to customers, negatively impact retailer, distributor and consumer relationships and diminish brand loyalty. the difficulty in forecasting demand also makes it difficult to estimate our future results of operations, financial condition and cash flows from period to period. a failure to accurately predict the level of demand for our products could adversely affect our net revenues and net income, and we are unlikely to forecast such effects with any certainty in advance. 8 table of contents consolidation of retailers or concentration of retail market share among a few retailers may increase and concentrate our credit risk and impair our ability to sell products. the athletic footwear, apparel and equipment retail markets in some countries are dominated by a few large athletic footwear, apparel and equipment retailers with many stores. these retailers have in the past increased their market share by expanding through acquisitions and construction of additional stores. these situations concentrate our credit risk with a relatively small number of retailers, and, if any of these retailers were to experience a shortage of liquidity or consumer behavior shifts away from traditional retail, it would increase the risk that their outstanding payables to us may not be paid. in addition, increasing market share concentration among one or a few retailers in a particular country or region increases the risk that if any one of them substantially reduces their purchases of our products, we may be unable to find a sufficient number of other retail outlets for our products to sustain the same level of sales and revenues. our nike direct operations have required and will continue to require a substantial investment and commitment of resources and are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties. our nike direct stores have required substantial fixed investment in equipment and leasehold improvements, information systems and personnel. we have entered into substantial operating lease commitments for retail space. certain stores have been designed and built to serve as high-profile venues to promote brand awareness and marketing activities. because of their unique design elements, locations and size, these stores require substantially more investment than other stores. due to the high fixed-cost structure associated with our nike direct operations, a decline in sales, a shift in consumer behavior away from brick-and-mortar retail, or the closure or poor performance of individual or multiple stores could result in significant lease termination costs, write-offs of equipment and leasehold improvements and employee-related costs. many factors unique to retail operations, some of which are beyond the company's control, pose risks and uncertainties. risks include, but are not limited to: credit card fraud; mismanagement of existing retail channel partners; and inability to manage costs associated with store construction and operation. in addition, extreme weather conditions in the areas in which our stores are located could adversely affect our business. if the technology-based systems that give our customers the ability to shop with us online do not function effectively, our operating results, as well as our ability to grow our digital commerce business globally, could be materially adversely affected. many of our customers shop with us through our digital platforms. increasingly, customers are using mobile-based devices and applications to shop online with us and with our competitors, and to do comparison shopping. we are increasingly using social media and proprietary mobile applications to interact with our customers and as a means to enhance their shopping experience. any failure on our part to provide attractive, effective, reliable, user-friendly digital commerce platforms that offer a wide assortment of merchandise with rapid delivery options and that continually meet the changing expectations of online shoppers could place us at a competitive disadvantage, result in the loss of digital commerce and other sales, harm our reputation with customers, have a material adverse impact on the growth of our digital commerce business globally and could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. risks specific to our digital commerce business also include diversion of sales from our and our retailers' brick and mortar stores, difficulty in recreating the in-store experience through direct channels and liability for online content. our failure to successfully respond to these risks might adversely affect sales in our digital commerce business, as well as damage our reputation and brands. failure to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights could adversely affect our business. we periodically discover counterfeit reproductions of our products or products that otherwise infringe our intellectual property rights. if we are unsuccessful in enforcing our intellectual property rights, continued sales of these products could adversely affect our sales and our brand and could result in a shift of consumer preference away from our products. the actions we take to establish and protect our intellectual property rights may not be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others. we also may be unable to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as violations of proprietary rights. we may be subject to liability if third parties successfully claim we infringe on their intellectual property rights. defending infringement claims could be expensive and time-consuming and might result in our entering into costly license agreements. we also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development, use, importation and/or sale of certain products. we take various actions to prevent the unauthorized use and/or disclosure of our confidential information and intellectual property rights. these actions include contractual measures such as entering into non-disclosure and non-compete agreements and agreements relating to our collaborations with third parties and providing confidential information awareness training. our controls and efforts to prevent unauthorized use and/or disclosure of confidential information and intellectual property rights might not always be effective. for example, confidential information related to business strategy, new technologies, mergers and acquisitions, unpublished financial results or personal data could be prematurely or inadvertently used and/or disclosed, resulting in a loss of reputation, a decline in our stock price and/or a negative impact on our market position, and could lead to damages, fines, penalties or injunctions. in addition, the laws of certain countries may not protect or allow enforcement of intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. we may face significant expenses and liability in connection with the protection of our intellectual property rights, including outside the united states, and if we are unable to successfully protect our rights or resolve intellectual property conflicts with others, our business or financial condition may be adversely affected. we are subject to the risk our licensees may not generate expected sales or maintain the value of our brands. we currently license, and expect to continue licensing, certain of our proprietary rights, such as trademarks or copyrighted material, to third parties. if our licensees fail to successfully market and sell licensed products, or fail to obtain sufficient capital or effectively manage their business operations, customer relationships, labor relationships, supplier relationships or credit risks, it could adversely affect our revenues, both directly from reduced royalties received and indirectly from reduced sales of our other products. 9 table of contents we also rely on our licensees to help preserve the value of our brands. although we attempt to protect our brands through approval rights over the design, production processes, quality, packaging, merchandising, distribution, advertising and promotion of our licensed products, we cannot completely control the use of our licensed brands by our licensees. the misuse of a brand by or negative publicity involving a licensee could have a material adverse effect on that brand and on us. we are subject to data security and privacy risks that could negatively affect our results, operations or reputation. in addition to our own sensitive and proprietary business information, we collect transactional and personal information about our customers and users of our digital experiences, which include online distribution channels and product engagement and personal fitness applications. hackers and data thieves are increasingly sophisticated and operate large-scale and complex automated attacks. any breach of our or our service providers' network, or other vendor systems, may result in the loss of confidential business and financial data, misappropriation of our consumers', users' or employees' personal information or a disruption of our business. any of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business, including unwanted media attention, impairment of our consumer and customer relationships, damage to our reputation; resulting in lost sales and consumers, fines, lawsuits, or significant legal and remediation expenses. we also may need to expend significant resources to protect against, respond to and/or redress problems caused by any breach. in addition, we must comply with increasingly complex and rigorous regulatory standards enacted to protect business and personal data in the u.s., europe and elsewhere. for example, the european union adopted the general data protection regulation (the gdpr ), which became effective on may 25, 2018. the gdpr imposes additional obligations on companies regarding the handling of personal data and provides certain individual privacy rights to persons whose data is stored. compliance with existing, proposed and recently enacted laws (including implementation of the privacy and process enhancements called for under gdpr) and regulations can be costly; any failure to comply with these regulatory standards could subject us to legal and reputational risks. misuse of or failure to secure personal information could also result in violation of data privacy laws and regulations, proceedings against the company by governmental entities or others, damage to our reputation and credibility and could have a negative impact on revenues and profits. failure of our contractors or our licensees' contractors to comply with our code of conduct, local laws and other standards could harm our business. we work with hundreds of contractors outside of the united states to manufacture our products, and we also have license agreements that permit unaffiliated parties to manufacture or contract for the manufacture of products using our intellectual property. we require the contractors that directly manufacture our products and our licensees that make products using our intellectual property (including, indirectly, their contract manufacturers) to comply with a code of conduct and other environmental, health and safety standards for the benefit of workers. we also require these contractors to comply with applicable standards for product safety. notwithstanding their contractual obligations, from time to time contractors may not comply with such standards or applicable local law or our licensees may fail to enforce such standards or applicable local law on their contractors. significant or continuing noncompliance with such standards and laws by one or more contractors could harm our reputation or result in a product recall and, as a result, could have an adverse effect on our sales and financial condition. negative publicity regarding production methods, alleged practices or workplace or related conditions of any of our suppliers, manufacturers or licensees could adversely affect our brand image and sales and force us to locate alternative suppliers, manufacturers or licenses. our international operations involve inherent risks which could result in harm to our business. virtually all of our athletic footwear and apparel is manufactured outside of the united states, and the majority of our products are sold outside of the united states. accordingly, we are subject to the risks generally associated with global trade and doing business abroad, which include foreign laws and regulations, varying consumer preferences across geographic regions, political unrest, disruptions or delays in cross-border shipments and changes in economic conditions in countries in which our products are manufactured or where we sell products. this includes, for example, the uncertainty surrounding the effect of brexit, including changes to the legal and regulatory framework that apply to the united kingdom and its relationship with the european union, as well as new and proposed changes affecting tax laws and trade policy in the u.s. and elsewhere as further described below under we could be subject to changes in tax rates, adoption of new tax laws, additional tax liabilities or increased volatility in our effective tax rate and changes to u.s. trade policy, tariff and import/export regulations may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations . the u.s. presidential administration has indicated a focus on policy reforms that discourage u.s. corporations from outsourcing manufacturing and production activities to foreign jurisdictions, including through tariffs or penalties on goods manufactured outside the u.s., which may require us to change the way we conduct business and adversely affect our results of operations. the administration has also targeted the specific practices of certain u.s. multinational corporations in public statements which, if directed at us, could harm our reputation or otherwise negatively impact our business. in addition, disease outbreaks, terrorist acts and military conflict have increased the risks of doing business abroad. these factors, among others, could affect our ability to manufacture products or procure materials, our ability to import products, our ability to sell products in international markets and our cost of doing business. if any of these or other factors make the conduct of business in a particular country undesirable or impractical, our business could be adversely affected. in addition, many of our imported products are subject to duties, tariffs or quotas that affect the cost and quantity of various types of goods imported into the united states and other countries. any country in which our products are produced or sold may eliminate, adjust or impose new quotas, duties, tariffs, safeguard measures, anti-dumping duties, cargo restrictions to prevent terrorism, restrictions on the transfer of currency, climate change legislation, product safety regulations or other charges or restrictions, any of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we could be subject to changes in tax rates, adoption of new tax laws, additional tax liabilities or increased volatility in our effective tax rate. we are subject to the tax laws in the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. current economic and political conditions make tax laws and regulations, or their interpretation and application, in any jurisdiction subject to significant change. on december 22, 2017, the u.s. enacted the tax cuts and jobs act (the tax act ), which includes a number of significant changes to previous u.s. tax laws that impact us, including provisions for a one-time transition tax on deemed repatriation of undistributed foreign earnings, and a reduction in the corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% for tax years beginning after december 31, 2017, among other changes. the tax act also transitions u.s. international taxation from a worldwide system to a modified territorial system and includes base erosion prevention measures on non-u.s. earnings, which has the effect of subjecting certain earnings of our foreign subsidiaries to u.s. taxation. 10 table of contents implementation of the tax act required us to record incremental provisional tax expense in fiscal 2018, which increased our effective tax rate in fiscal 2018. adjustments to the incremental provisional tax expense may be made in future periods as actual amounts may differ due to, among other factors, a change in interpretation of the applicable revisions to the u.s. tax code and related tax accounting guidance, changes in assumptions made in developing these estimates, regulatory guidance that may be issued with respect to the applicable revisions to the u.s. tax code, and state tax implications. as we complete our analysis of the tax act, we may make adjustments to provisional amounts we have recorded, which could negatively impact our business, results of operations or financial condition. changes or challenges to or the repeal of the tax act cannot be predicted with certainty and could have a material impact on our future tax expense. we earn a substantial portion of our income in foreign countries and are subject to the tax laws of those jurisdictions. there have been proposals to reform foreign tax laws that could significantly impact how u.s. multinational corporations are taxed on foreign earnings. although we cannot predict whether or in what form these proposals will pass, several of the proposals considered, if enacted into law, could have an adverse impact on our income tax expense and cash flows. portions of our operations are subject to a reduced tax rate or are free of tax under various tax holidays and rulings that expire in whole or in part from time to time. these tax holidays and rulings may be extended when certain conditions are met, or terminated if certain conditions are not met. if the tax holidays and rulings are not extended, or if we fail to satisfy the conditions of the reduced tax rate, our effective income tax rate would increase in the future. we are also subject to the examination of our tax returns by the united states internal revenue service ( irs ) and other tax authorities. we regularly assess the likelihood of an adverse outcome resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of its provision for income taxes. although we believe our tax provisions are adequate, the final determination of tax audits and any related disputes could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals, particularly in light of the enactment of the tax act. the results of audits or related disputes could have an adverse effect on our financial statements for the period or periods for which the applicable final determinations are made. for example, we and our subsidiaries are engaged in a number of intercompany transactions across multiple tax jurisdictions. although we believe we have clearly reflected the economics of these transactions and the proper local transfer pricing documentation is in place, tax authorities may propose and sustain adjustments that could result in changes that may impact our mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates. changes to u.s. trade policy, tariff and import/export regulations may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. changes in u.s. or international social, political, regulatory and economic conditions or in laws and policies governing foreign trade, manufacturing, development and investment in the territories or countries where we currently sell our products or conduct our business, as well as any negative sentiment toward the u.s. as a result of such changes, could adversely affect our business. the u.s. presidential administration has instituted or proposed changes in trade policies that include the negotiation or termination of trade agreements, the imposition of higher tariffs on imports into the u.s., economic sanctions on individuals, corporations or countries, and other government regulations affecting trade between the u.s. and other countries where we conduct our business. it may be time-consuming and expensive for us to alter our business operations in order to adapt to or comply with any such changes. as a result of recent policy changes of the u.s. presidential administration and recent u.s. government proposals, there may be greater restrictions and economic disincentives on international trade. the new tariffs and other changes in u.s. trade policy could trigger retaliatory actions by affected countries, and certain foreign governments have instituted or are considering imposing trade sanctions on certain u.s. goods. the company, similar to many other multinational corporations, does a significant amount of business that would be impacted by changes to the trade policies of the u.s. and foreign countries (including governmental action related to tariffs, international trade agreements, or economic sanctions). such changes have the potential to adversely impact the u.s. economy or certain sectors thereof, our industry and the global demand for our products, and as a result, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if one or more of our counterparty financial institutions default on their obligations to us or fail, we may incur significant losses. as part of our hedging activities, we enter into transactions involving derivative financial instruments, which may include forward contracts, commodity futures contracts, option contracts, collars and swaps with various financial institutions. in addition, we have significant amounts of cash, cash equivalents and other investments on deposit or in accounts with banks or other financial institutions in the united states and abroad. as a result, we are exposed to the risk of default by or failure of counterparty financial institutions. the risk of counterparty default or failure may be heightened during economic downturns and periods of uncertainty in the financial markets. if one of our counterparties were to become insolvent or file for bankruptcy, our ability to recover losses incurred as a result of default, or our assets deposited or held in accounts with such counterparty, may be limited by the counterparty's liquidity or the applicable laws governing the insolvency or bankruptcy proceedings. in the event of default or failure of one or more of our counterparties, we could incur significant losses, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. we rely on a concentrated source base of contract manufacturers to supply a significant portion of our footwear products. nike is supplied by 124 footwear factories located in 13 countries. we do not own or operate any of the footwear manufacturing facilities and depend upon independent contract manufacturers to manufacture all of the footwear products we sell. in fiscal 2018 , five footwear contract manufacturers each accounted for greater than 10% of fiscal 2018 footwear production and in aggregate accounted for approximately 69% of nike brand footwear production in fiscal 2018 . our ability to meet our customers' needs depends on our ability to maintain a steady supply of products from our independent contract manufacturers. if one or more of our significant suppliers were to sever their relationship with us or significantly alter the terms of our relationship, including due to changes in applicable trade policies, we may not be able to obtain replacement products in a timely manner, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales, financial condition or results of operations. additionally, if any of our primary contract manufacturers fail to make timely shipments, do not meet our quality standards or otherwise fail to deliver us product in accordance with our plans, there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 11 table of contents our products are subject to risks associated with overseas sourcing, manufacturing and financing. the principal materials used in our apparel products natural and synthetic fabrics and threads, specialized performance fabrics designed to efficiently wick moisture away from the body, retain heat or repel rain and/or snow as well as plastic and metal hardware are available in countries where our manufacturing takes place. the principal materials used in our footwear products natural and synthetic rubber, plastic compounds, foam cushioning materials, natural and synthetic leather, natural and synthetic fabrics and threads, nylon, canvas and polyurethane films are also locally available to manufacturers. both our apparel and footwear products are dependent upon the ability of our unaffiliated contract manufacturers to locate, train, employ and retain adequate personnel. nike contractors and suppliers buy raw materials and are subject to wage rates that are oftentimes regulated by the governments of the countries in which our products are manufactured. there could be a significant disruption in the supply of fabrics or raw materials from current sources or, in the event of a disruption, our contract manufacturers might not be able to locate alternative suppliers of materials of comparable quality at an acceptable price or at all. further, our unaffiliated contract manufacturers have experienced and may continue to experience in the future, unexpected increases in work wages, whether government mandated or otherwise and increases in compliance costs due to governmental regulation concerning certain metals used in the manufacturing of our products. in addition, we cannot be certain that our unaffiliated manufacturers will be able to fill our orders in a timely manner. if we experience significant increases in demand, or reductions in the availability of materials, or need to replace an existing manufacturer, there can be no assurance additional supplies of fabrics or raw materials or additional manufacturing capacity will be available when required on terms acceptable to us, or at all, or that any supplier or manufacturer would allocate sufficient capacity to us in order to meet our requirements. in addition, even if we are able to expand existing or find new manufacturing or sources of materials, we may encounter delays in production and added costs as a result of the time it takes to train suppliers and manufacturers in our methods, products, quality control standards and labor, health and safety standards. any delays, interruption or increased costs in labor or wages, or the supply of materials or manufacture of our products could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet retail customer and consumer demand for our products and result in lower revenues and net income both in the short- and long-term. because independent manufacturers make a majority of our products outside of our principal sales markets, our products must be transported by third parties over large geographic distances. delays in the shipment or delivery of our products due to the availability of transportation, work stoppages, port strikes, infrastructure congestion or other factors, and costs and delays associated with consolidating or transitioning between manufacturers, could adversely impact our financial performance. in addition, manufacturing delays or unexpected demand for our products may require us to use faster, but more expensive, transportation methods such as air freight, which could adversely affect our profit margins. the cost of oil is a significant component in manufacturing and transportation costs, so increases in the price of petroleum products can adversely affect our profit margins. changes in u.s. trade policies, including new and potential changes to import tariffs and existing trade policies and agreements, could also have a significant impact on our activities in foreign jurisdictions, and could adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, sojitz america performs significant import-export financing services for the company. during fiscal 2018, sojitz america provided financing and purchasing services for nike brand products sold in certain nike markets including argentina, brazil, canada, india, south africa and uruguay (collectively the sojitz markets ), excluding products produced and sold in the same country. any failure of sojitz america to provide these services or any failure of sojitz america's banks could disrupt our ability to acquire products from our suppliers and to deliver products to our customers in the sojitz markets. such a disruption could result in canceled orders that would adversely affect sales and profitability. our success depends on our global distribution facilities. we distribute our products to customers directly from the factory and through distribution centers located throughout the world. our ability to meet customer expectations, manage inventory, complete sales and achieve objectives for operating efficiencies and growth, particularly in emerging markets, depends on the proper operation of our distribution facilities, the development or expansion of additional distribution capabilities and the timely performance of services by third parties (including those involved in shipping product to and from our distribution facilities). our distribution facilities could be interrupted by information technology problems and disasters such as earthquakes or fires. any significant failure in our distribution facilities could result in an adverse effect on our business. we maintain business interruption insurance, but it may not adequately protect us from adverse effects caused by significant disruptions in our distribution facilities. we rely significantly on information technology to operate our business, including our supply chain and retail operations, and any failure, inadequacy or interruption of that technology could harm our ability to effectively operate our business. we are heavily dependent on information technology systems and networks, including the internet and third-party services ( information technology systems ), across our supply chain, including product design, production, forecasting, ordering, manufacturing, transportation, sales and distribution, as well as for processing financial information for external and internal reporting purposes, retail operations and other business activities. information technology systems are critical to many of our operating activities and our business processes and may be negatively impacted by any service interruption or shutdown. for example, our ability to effectively manage and maintain our inventory and to ship products to customers on a timely basis depends significantly on the reliability of these information technology systems. over a number of years, we have implemented information technology systems in all of the geographical regions in which we operate. our work to integrate, secure and enhance these systems and related processes in our global operations is ongoing and nike will continue to invest in these efforts. the failure of these systems to operate effectively, including as a result of security breaches, viruses, hackers, malware, natural disasters, vendor business interruptions or other causes, or failure to properly maintain, protect, repair or upgrade systems, or problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems could cause delays in product fulfillment and reduced efficiency of our operations, could require significant capital investments to remediate the problem, and may have an adverse effect on our reputation, results of operations and financial condition. we also use information technology systems to process financial information and results of operations for internal reporting purposes and to comply with regulatory financial reporting, legal and tax requirements. if information technology systems suffer severe damage, disruption or shutdown and our business continuity plans, or those of our vendors, do not effectively resolve the issues in a timely manner, we could experience delays in reporting our financial results, which could result in lost revenues and profits, as well as reputational damage. furthermore, we depend on information technology systems and personal data collection for digital marketing, digital commerce, consumer engagement and the marketing and use of our digital products and services. we also rely on our ability to engage in electronic communications throughout the world between and among our employees as well as with other third parties, including customers, suppliers, vendors and consumers. any interruption in information technology systems may impede our ability to engage in the digital space and result in lost revenues, damage to our reputation, and loss of users. 12 table of contents the market for prime real estate is competitive. our ability to effectively obtain real estate to open new retail stores and otherwise conduct our operations, both domestically and internationally, depends on the availability of real estate that meets our criteria for traffic, square footage, co-tenancies, lease economics, demographics and other factors. we also must be able to effectively renew our existing real estate leases. in addition, from time to time, we seek to downsize, consolidate, reposition or close some of our real estate locations, which may require modification of an existing lease. failure to secure adequate new locations or successfully modify leases for existing locations, or failure to effectively manage the profitability of our existing fleet of retail stores, could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. additionally, the economic environment may make it difficult to determine the fair market rent of real estate properties domestically and internationally. this could impact the quality of our decisions to exercise lease options at previously negotiated rents and to renew expiring leases at negotiated rents. any adverse effect on the quality of these decisions could impact our ability to retain real estate locations adequate to meet our targets or efficiently manage the profitability of our existing fleet of stores, which could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. extreme weather conditions and natural disasters could negatively impact our operating results and financial condition. extreme weather conditions in the areas in which our retail stores, suppliers, customers, distribution centers and vendors are located could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. moreover, natural disasters such as earthquakes, hurricanes and tsunamis, whether occurring in the united states or abroad, and their related consequences and effects, including energy shortages and public health issues, could disrupt our operations, the operations of our vendors and other suppliers or result in economic instability that may negatively impact our operating results and financial condition. our financial results may be adversely affected if substantial investments in businesses and operations fail to produce expected returns. from time to time, we may invest in technology, business infrastructure, new businesses, product offering and manufacturing innovation and expansion of existing businesses, such as our digital commerce operations, which require substantial cash investments and management attention. we believe cost-effective investments are essential to business growth and profitability; however, significant investments are subject to typical risks and uncertainties inherent in developing a new business or expanding an existing business. the failure of any significant investment to provide expected returns or profitability could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and divert management attention from more profitable business operations. we are subject to litigation and other legal and regulatory proceedings, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. as a multinational corporation with operations and distribution channels throughout the world, we are subject to extensive laws and regulations in the u.s. and other jurisdictions in which we have operations and distribution channels. we are involved in various types of claims, lawsuits, regulatory proceedings and government investigations relating to our business, our products and the actions of our employees and representatives, including contractual and employment relationships, product liability, antitrust, trademark rights and a variety of other matters. it is not possible to predict with certainty the outcome of any such legal or regulatory proceedings or investigations, and we could in the future incur judgments, fines or penalties, or enter into settlements of lawsuits and claims that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and negatively impact our reputation. the global nature of our business means legal and compliance risks will continue to exist and additional legal proceedings and other contingencies will arise from time to time, which could adversely affect us. in addition, the adoption of new laws or regulations, or changes in the interpretation of existing laws or regulations, may result in significant unanticipated legal and reputational risks. any current or future legal or regulatory proceedings could divert management's attention from our operations and result in substantial legal fees. the success of our business depends, in part, on high-quality employees, including key personnel. our success depends in part on the continued service of high-quality employees, including key executive officers and personnel. the loss of the services of key individuals, or any negative perception with respect to these individuals, could harm our business. our success also depends on our ability to recruit, retain and engage our personnel sufficiently, both to maintain our current business and to execute our strategic initiatives. competition for employees in our industry is intense and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. in addition, shifts in u.s. immigration policy could negatively impact our ability to attract, hire and retain highly skilled employees who are from outside the u.s. the sale of a large number of shares of common stock by our principal stockholder could depress the market price of our common stock. as of june 30, 2018, swoosh, llc beneficially owned more than 77% of our class a common stock. if, on june 30, 2018, all of these shares were converted into class b common stock, the commensurate ownership percentage of our class b common stock would be approximately 17%. the shares are available for resale, subject to the requirements of the u.s. securities laws and the terms of the limited liability company agreement governing swoosh, llc. the sale or prospect of a sale of a substantial number of these shares could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. swoosh, llc was formed by philip h. knight, our chairman emeritus, to hold the majority of his shares of class a common stock. swoosh, llc is controlled by mr. knight's son and nike director, travis knight. changes in our credit ratings or macroeconomic conditions may affect our liquidity, increasing borrowing costs and limiting our financing options. our long-term debt is currently rated investment grade by standard &amp; poor's and moody's investors service. if our credit ratings are lowered, borrowing costs for future long-term debt or short-term credit facilities may increase and our financing options, including our access to the unsecured credit market, could be limited. we may also be subject to restrictive covenants that would reduce our flexibility to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, make restricted payments, pledge assets as security, make investments, loans, advances, guarantees and acquisitions, undergo fundamental changes and enter into transactions with affiliates. failure to comply with such covenants could result in a default, and as a result, the commitments of our lenders under our credit agreements may be terminated and the maturity of amounts owed may be accelerated. in addition, macroeconomic conditions, such as increased volatility or disruption in the credit markets, could adversely affect our ability to refinance existing debt. 13 table of contents if our internal controls are ineffective, our operating results could be adversely affected. our internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls or fraud. even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in their implementation, our business and operating results could be harmed and we could fail to meet our financial reporting obligations. if our estimates or judgments relating to our critical accounting policies prove to be incorrect, our operating results could be adversely affected. the preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. we base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, as provided in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. the results of these estimates form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets, liabilities and equity, and the amount of revenue and expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources. significant assumptions and estimates used in preparing our consolidated financial statements include those related to revenue recognition, allowance for uncollectible accounts receivable, inventory reserves, contingent payments under endorsement contracts, accounting for property, plant and equipment and definite-lived assets, hedge accounting for derivatives, stock-based compensation, income taxes and other contingencies. our operating results may be adversely affected if our assumptions change or if actual circumstances differ from those in our assumptions, which could cause our operating results to fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in the price of our class b common stock. anti-takeover provisions may impair an acquisition of the company or reduce the price of our common stock. there are provisions within our articles of incorporation and oregon law intended to protect shareholder interests by providing the board of directors a means to attempt to deny coercive takeover attempts or to negotiate with a potential acquirer in order to obtain more favorable terms. such provisions include a control share acquisition statute, a freeze-out statute, two classes of stock that vote separately on certain issues, and the fact that holders of class a common stock elect three-quarters of the board of directors rounded down to the next whole number. however, such provisions could discourage, delay or prevent an unsolicited merger, acquisition or other change in control of our company that some shareholders might believe to be in their best interests or in which shareholders might receive a premium for their common stock over the prevailing market price. these provisions could also discourage proxy contests for control of the company. we may fail to meet market expectations, which could cause the price of our stock to decline. our class b common stock is traded publicly, and at any given time various securities analysts follow our financial results and issue reports on us. these reports include information about our historical financial results as well as analysts' estimates of our future performance. analysts' estimates are based upon their own opinions and are often different from our estimates or expectations. if our operating results are below the estimates or expectations of public market analysts and investors, our stock price could decline. in the past, securities class action litigation has been brought against nike and other companies following a decline in the market price of their securities. if our stock price is volatile for any reason, we may become involved in this type of litigation in the future. any litigation could result in reputational damage, substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources needed to successfully run our business. 14 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 40 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in the normal course of business and consistent with established policies and procedures, we employ a variety of financial instruments to manage exposure to fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies and interest rates. it is our policy to utilize these financial instruments only where necessary to finance our business and manage such exposures; we do not enter into these transactions for trading or speculative purposes. we are exposed to foreign currency fluctuations, primarily as a result of our international sales, product sourcing and funding activities. our foreign exchange risk management program is intended to lessen both the positive and negative effects of currency fluctuations on our consolidated results of operations, financial position and cash flows. we use forward and option contracts to hedge certain anticipated, but not yet firmly committed, transactions as well as certain firm commitments and the related receivables and payables, including third-party and intercompany transactions. we have, in the past, and may in the future, also use forward or options contracts to hedge our investment in the net assets of certain international subsidiaries to offset foreign currency translation adjustments related to our net investment in those subsidiaries. where exposures are hedged, our program has the effect of delaying the impact of exchange rate movements on our consolidated financial statements. the timing for hedging exposures, as well as the type and duration of the hedge instruments employed, are guided by our hedging policies and determined based upon the nature of the exposure and prevailing market conditions. typically, the company may enter into hedge contracts starting up to 12 to 24 months in advance of the forecasted transaction and may place incremental hedges up to 100% of the exposure by the time the forecasted transaction occurs. the majority of derivatives outstanding as of may 31, 2018 are designated as foreign currency cash flow hedges, primarily for euro/u.s. dollar, british pound/euro and japanese yen/u.s. dollar currency pairs. refer to note 16 risk management and derivatives in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. our earnings are also exposed to movements in short- and long-term market interest rates. our objective in managing this interest rate exposure is to limit the impact of interest rate changes on earnings and cash flows and to reduce overall borrowing costs. to achieve these objectives, we maintain a mix of commercial paper, bank loans, and fixed-rate debt of varying maturities. market risk measurement we monitor foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk and related derivatives using a variety of techniques including a review of market value, sensitivity analysis and value-at-risk ( var ). our market-sensitive derivative and other financial instruments are foreign currency forward contracts, foreign currency option contracts, interest rate swaps, intercompany loans denominated in non-functional currencies, fixed interest rate u.s. dollar denominated debt and fixed interest rate japanese yen denominated debt. we use var to monitor the foreign exchange risk of our foreign currency forward and foreign currency option derivative instruments only. the var determines the maximum potential one-day loss in the fair value of these foreign exchange rate-sensitive financial instruments. the var model estimates assume normal market conditions and a 95% confidence level. there are various modeling techniques that can be used in the var computation. our computations are based on interrelationships between currencies and interest rates (a variance/co-variance technique). these interrelationships are a function of foreign exchange currency market changes and interest rate changes over the preceding one-year period. the value of foreign currency options does not change on a one-to-one basis with changes in the underlying currency rate. we adjust the potential loss in option value for the estimated sensitivity (the delta and gamma ) to changes in the underlying currency rate. this calculation reflects the impact of foreign currency rate fluctuations on the derivative instruments only and does not include the impact of such rate fluctuations on non-functional currency transactions (such as anticipated transactions, firm commitments, cash balances and accounts and loans receivable and payable), including those which are hedged by these instruments. the var model is a risk analysis tool and does not purport to represent actual losses in fair value we will incur nor does it consider the potential effect of favorable changes in market rates. it also does not represent the full extent of the possible loss that may occur. actual future gains and losses will differ from those estimated because of changes or differences in market rates and interrelationships, hedging instruments and hedge percentages, timing and other factors. the estimated maximum one-day loss in fair value on our foreign currency sensitive derivative financial instruments, derived using the var model, was $93 million and $97 million at may 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. the var decreased year-over-year as a result of a decrease in foreign currency volatilities at may 31, 2018. such a hypothetical loss in the fair value of our derivatives would be offset by increases in the value of the underlying transactions being hedged. the average monthly change in the fair values of foreign currency forward and foreign currency option derivative instruments was $260 million and $161 million during fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017, respectively. the instruments not included in the var are intercompany loans denominated in non-functional currencies, fixed interest rate japanese yen denominated debt, fixed interest rate u.s. dollar denominated debt and interest rate swaps. intercompany loans and related interest amounts are eliminated in consolidation. furthermore, our non-functional currency intercompany loans are substantially hedged against foreign exchange risk through the use of forward contracts, which are included in the var calculation above. therefore, we consider the interest rate and foreign currency market risks associated with our non-functional currency intercompany loans to be immaterial to our consolidated financial position, results from operations and cash flows. details of third-party debt are provided in the table below. the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates. 40 table of contents expected maturity date year ending may 31, (dollars in millions) 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 thereafter total fair value foreign exchange risk japanese yen functional currency long-term japanese yen debt fixed rate principal payments $ 6 $ 6 $ 3 $ $ $ $ 15 $ 16 average interest rate 2.4 % 2.4 % 2.4 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 2.4 % interest rate risk japanese yen functional currency long-term japanese yen debt fixed rate principal payments $ 6 $ 6 $ 3 $ $ $ $ 15 $ 16 average interest rate 2.4 % 2.4 % 2.4 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 2.4 % u.s. dollar functional currency long-term u.s. dollar debt fixed rate principal payments $ $ $ $ $ 500 $ 3,000 $ 3,500 $ 3,279 average interest rate 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 2.3 % 3.3 % 3.1 % the fixed interest rate japanese yen denominated debt instruments were issued by and are accounted for by one of our japanese subsidiaries. accordingly, the monthly translation of these instruments, which varies due to changes in foreign exchange rates, is recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income upon consolidation of this subsidiary.risk factors 8 risk factors. we report our nike brand operations based on our internal geographic organization. each nike brand geographic segment operates predominantly in one industry: the design, development, marketing and selling of athletic footwear, apparel and equipment. the company's reportable operating segments for the nike brand are: north america; europe, middle east &amp; africa (emea); greater china; and asia pacific &amp; latin america (apla), and include results for the nike, jordan and hurley brands. sales through our nike direct operations are managed within each geographic operating segment. converse is also a reportable operating segment and operates predominately in one industry: the design, marketing, licensing and selling of casual sneakers, apparel and accessories. converse direct to consumer operations, including digital commerce, are reported within the converse operating segment results. united states market for fiscal 2019 , nike brand and converse sales in the united states accounted for approximately 41% of total revenues, compared to 42% and 46% for fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017 , respectively. we sell our nike brand, jordan brand, hurley and converse products to thousands of retail accounts in the united states, including a mix of footwear stores, sporting goods stores, athletic specialty stores, department stores, skate, tennis and golf shops and other retail accounts. in the united states, we utilize nike sales offices to solicit such sales. during fiscal 2019 , our three largest united states customers accounted for approximately 24% of sales in the united states. 2 nike, inc. table of contents our nike direct and converse direct to consumer operations sell nike brand, jordan brand, hurley and converse products to consumers through various digital platforms. in addition, our nike direct and converse direct to consumer operations sell through the following number of retail stores in the united states: u.s. retail stores number nike brand factory stores 217 nike brand in-line stores (including employee-only stores) 29 converse stores (including factory stores) 109 hurley stores (including factory and employee-only stores) 29 total 384 in the united states, nike has six significant distribution centers. four are located in memphis, tennessee, two of which are owned and two of which are leased. two other distribution centers, one located in indianapolis, indiana and one located in dayton, tennessee, are leased and operated by third-party logistics providers. nike brand apparel and equipment are also shipped from our foothill ranch, california distribution center, which we lease. smaller leased and third-party leased and operated distribution facilities are located in various parts of the united states. international markets for fiscal 2019 , non-u.s. nike brand and converse sales accounted for approximately 59% of total revenues, compared to 58% and 54% for fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017 , respectively. we sell our products to retail accounts, through our own nike direct operations and through a mix of independent distributors, licensees and sales representatives around the world. we sell to thousands of retail accounts and ship products from 67 distribution centers outside of the united states. during fiscal 2019 , nike's three largest customers outside of the united states accounted for approximately 14% of total non-u.s. sales. in addition to nike and converse owned digital commerce platforms in over 45 countries, our nike direct and converse direct to consumer businesses operate the following number of retail stores outside the united states: non-u.s. retail stores number nike brand factory stores 648 nike brand in-line stores (including employee-only stores) 57 converse stores (including factory stores) 63 total 768 international branch offices and subsidiaries of nike are located in argentina, australia, austria, belgium, bermuda, brazil, canada, chile, china, croatia, the czech republic, denmark, finland, france, germany, greece, hong kong, hungary, india, indonesia, ireland, israel, italy, japan, korea, macau, malaysia, mexico, the netherlands, new zealand, norway, panama, the philippines, poland, portugal, russia, singapore, slovakia, slovenia, south africa, spain, sri lanka, sweden, switzerland, taiwan, thailand, turkey, the united arab emirates, the united kingdom, uruguay and vietnam. significant customer no customer accounted for 10% or more of our worldwide net revenues during fiscal 2019 . 2019 form 10-k 3 table of contents product research, design and development we believe our research, design and development efforts are key factors in our success. technical innovation in the design and manufacturing process of footwear, apparel and athletic equipment receives continued emphasis as we strive to produce products that help to enhance athletic performance, reduce injury and maximize comfort, while reducing waste. in addition to our own staff of specialists in the areas of biomechanics, chemistry, exercise physiology, engineering, industrial design, sustainability and related fields, we also utilize research committees and advisory boards made up of athletes, coaches, trainers, equipment managers, orthopedists, podiatrists and other experts who consult with us and review designs, materials, concepts for product and manufacturing process improvements and compliance with product safety regulations around the world. employee athletes, athletes engaged under sports marketing contracts and other athletes wear-test and evaluate products during the design and development process. as we continue to develop new technologies, we are simultaneously focused on the design of innovative products incorporating such technologies throughout our product categories. using market intelligence and research, our various design teams identify opportunities to leverage new technologies in existing categories responding to consumer preferences. the proliferation of nike air, lunar, zoom, free, flywire, dri-fit, flyknit, flyweave, zoomx, react, adaptive and nike+ technologies, among others, throughout our running, nike basketball, jordan brand, football (soccer), training and sportswear categories typifies our dedication to designing innovative products. manufacturing we are supplied by 112 footwear factories located in 12 countries. the largest single footwear factory accounted for approximately 9% of total fiscal 2019 nike brand footwear production. virtually all of our footwear is manufactured outside of the united states by independent contract manufacturers which often operate multiple factories. for fiscal 2019 , contract factories in vietnam, china and indonesia manufactured approximately 49%, 23% and 21% of total nike brand footwear, respectively. we also have manufacturing agreements with independent contract manufacturers in argentina and india to manufacture footwear for sale primarily within those countries. for fiscal 2019 , four footwear contract manufacturers each accounted for greater than 10% of footwear production and in the aggregate accounted for approximately 61% of nike brand footwear production. we are supplied by 334 apparel factories located in 36 countries. the largest single apparel factory accounted for approximately 14% of total fiscal 2019 nike brand apparel production. virtually all of our apparel is manufactured outside of the united states by independent contract manufacturers which often operate multiple factories. for fiscal 2019 , contract factories in china, vietnam and thailand produced approximately 27%, 22% and 10% of total nike brand apparel, respectively. for fiscal 2019 , one apparel contract manufacturer accounted for more than 10% of apparel production, and the top five contract manufacturers in the aggregate accounted for approximately 49% of nike brand apparel production. the principal materials used in our footwear products are natural and synthetic rubber, plastic compounds, foam cushioning materials, natural and synthetic leather, nylon, polyester and canvas, as well as polyurethane films used to make nike air-sole cushioning components. during fiscal 2019 , air manufacturing innovation, a wholly-owned subsidiary, with facilities near beaverton, oregon and in st. charles, missouri, as well as independent contractors in china and vietnam, were our suppliers of the air-sole cushioning components used in footwear. the principal materials used in our apparel products are natural and synthetic fabrics and threads (both virgin and recycled); specialized performance fabrics designed to efficiently wick moisture away from the body, retain heat and repel rain and/or snow; and plastic and metal hardware. nike's independent contractors and suppliers buy raw materials for the manufacturing of our footwear, apparel and equipment products. most raw materials are available and purchased by those independent contractors and suppliers in the countries where manufacturing takes place. nike's independent contract manufacturers and suppliers have thus far experienced little difficulty in satisfying raw material requirements for the production of our products. since 1972, sojitz corporation of america ( sojitz america ), a large japanese trading company and the sole owner of our redeemable preferred stock, has performed import-export financing services for us. during fiscal 2019 , sojitz america provided financing and purchasing services for nike brand products sold in certain nike markets including argentina, brazil, canada, india, south africa and uruguay, excluding products produced and sold in the same country. approximately 5% of nike brand sales occurred in those countries. any failure of sojitz america to provide these services or any failure of sojitz america's banks could disrupt our ability to acquire products from our suppliers and to deliver products to our customers in those markets. such a disruption could result in canceled orders that would adversely affect sales and profitability. however, we believe that any such disruption would be short-term in duration due to the ready availability of alternative sources of financing at competitive rates. 4 nike, inc. table of contents international operations and trade our international operations and sources of supply are subject to the usual risks of doing business abroad, such as the implementation of, or potential changes in, foreign and domestic trade policies, increases in import duties, anti-dumping measures, quotas, safeguard measures, trade restrictions, restrictions on the transfer of funds and, in certain parts of the world, political instability and terrorism. we have not, to date, been materially affected by any such risk, but cannot predict the likelihood of such material effects occurring in the future. in recent years, uncertain global and regional economic and political conditions have affected international trade and increased protectionist actions around the world. these trends are affecting many global manufacturing and service sectors, and the footwear and apparel industries, as a whole, are not immune. companies in our industry are facing trade protectionism in many different regions, and in nearly all cases we are working together with industry groups to address trade issues and reduce the impact to the industry, while observing applicable competition laws. notwithstanding our efforts, protectionist measures have resulted in increases in the cost of our products, and additional measures, if implemented, could adversely affect sales and/or profitability for nike, as well as the imported footwear and apparel industry as a whole. we monitor protectionist trends and developments throughout the world that may materially impact our industry, and we engage in administrative and judicial processes to mitigate trade restrictions. we are actively monitoring actions that may result in additional anti-dumping measures and could affect our industry. we are also monitoring for and advocating against other impediments that may limit or delay customs clearance for imports of footwear, apparel and equipment. nike also advocates for trade liberalization for footwear and apparel in a number of regional and bilateral free trade agreements. changes in u.s. trade policies, including new and potential tariffs or penalties on imported goods, may negatively affect u.s. corporations with production activities outside the u.s., including nike. there have also been discussions and commentary regarding retaliatory actions by countries affected by the new tariffs and other changes in u.s. trade policy, and certain foreign governments have instituted or are considering imposing retaliatory measures on certain u.s. goods, which could negatively affect u.s. corporations with business operations and/or consumer markets in those countries. depending on the extent that certain new or proposed reforms are implemented by the u.s. government and the manner in which foreign governments respond to such reforms, it may become necessary for us to change the way we conduct business, which may adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, with respect to proposed trade restrictions targeting china, which represents an important sourcing country and consumer market for us, we are working with a broad coalition of global businesses and trade associations representing a wide variety of sectors to help ensure that any legislation enacted and implemented (i) addresses legitimate and core concerns, (ii) is consistent with international trade rules and (iii) reflects and considers china's domestic economy and the important role it has in the global economic community. where trade protection measures are implemented, we believe that we have the ability to develop, over a period of time, adequate alternative sources of supply for the products obtained from our present suppliers. if events prevented us from acquiring products from our suppliers in a particular country, our operations could be temporarily disrupted and we could experience an adverse financial impact. however, we believe we could abate any such disruption, and that much of the adverse impact on supply would, therefore, be of a short-term nature, although alternate sources of supply might not be as cost-effective and could have an ongoing adverse impact on profitability. our international operations are also subject to compliance with the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, or "fcpa", and other anti-bribery laws applicable to our operations. we source a significant portion of our products from, and have important consumer markets, outside of the united states, and we have an ethics and compliance program to address compliance with the fcpa and similar laws by us, our employees, agents, suppliers and other partners. competition the athletic footwear, apparel and equipment industry is highly competitive on a worldwide basis. we compete internationally with a significant number of athletic and leisure footwear companies, athletic and leisure apparel companies, sports equipment companies and large companies having diversified lines of athletic and leisure footwear, apparel and equipment, including adidas, anta, asics, li ning, lululemon athletica, puma, under armour and v.f. corporation, among others. the intense competition and the rapid changes in technology and consumer preferences in the markets for athletic and leisure footwear and apparel and athletic equipment, constitute significant risk factors in our operations. 2019 form 10-k 5 table of contents nike is the largest seller of athletic footwear and apparel in the world. important aspects of competition in this industry are: product attributes such as quality; performance and reliability; new product innovation and development and consumer price/value. consumer connection and affinity for brands and products, developed through marketing and promotion; social media interaction; customer support and service; identification with prominent and influential athletes, public figures, coaches, teams, colleges and sports leagues who endorse our brands and use our products and active engagement through sponsored sporting events and clinics. effective sourcing and distribution of products, with attractive merchandising and presentation at retail, both in-store and digital platforms. we believe that we are competitive in all of these areas. trademarks and patents we believe that our intellectual property rights are important to our brand, our success and our competitive position. we pursue available protections of these rights and vigorously protect them against third-party theft and infringement. we use trademarks on nearly all of our products and believe having distinctive marks that are readily identifiable is an important factor in creating a market for our goods, in identifying our brands and the company, and in distinguishing our goods from the goods of others. we consider our nike and swoosh design trademarks to be among our most valuable assets and we have registered these trademarks in almost 170 jurisdictions worldwide. in addition, we own many other trademarks that we use in marketing our products. we own common law rights in the trade dress of several significant shoe designs and elements. for certain trade dress, we have sought and obtained trademark registrations. we have copyright protection in our design, graphics and other original works. in some instances, we also obtain registered copyrights. we file for, own and maintain many u.s. and foreign utility and design patents protecting components, technologies, materials, manufacturing techniques, features, functionality, and industrial and aesthetic designs used in and for the manufacture of various athletic and leisure footwear and apparel, athletic equipment and digital devices and related software applications. these patents expire at various times. we believe our success depends upon our capabilities in areas such as design, research and development, production and marketing and is supported by our intellectual property rights, such as trademarks, patents and trade secrets, among others. we have followed a policy of applying for and registering intellectual property rights in the united states and select foreign countries on trademarks, inventions, innovations and designs that we deem valuable. we also continue to vigorously protect our intellectual property, including trademarks, patents and trade secrets against third-party infringement. employees as of may 31, 2019 , we had approximately 76,700 employees worldwide, including retail and part-time employees. management is committed to maintaining an environment where all nike employees have the opportunity to reach their full potential. none of our employees are represented by a union, except for certain employees in the apla geography, where local law requires those employees to be represented by a trade union. also, in some countries outside of the united states, local laws require employee representation by works councils (which may be entitled to information and consultation on certain company decisions) or by organizations similar to a union. in certain european countries, we are required by local law to enter into and/or comply with industry-wide or national collective bargaining agreements. nike has never experienced a material interruption of operations due to labor disagreements. 6 nike, inc. table of contents information about our executive officers the executive officers of nike, inc. as of july 23, 2019 are as follows: mark g. parker , chairman, president and chief executive officer mr. parker, 63, was appointed president and chief executive officer in january 2006 and named chairman of the board in 2016. he has been employed by nike since 1979 with primary responsibilities in product research, design and development, marketing and brand management. mr. parker was appointed divisional vice president in charge of product development in 1987, corporate vice president in 1989, general manager in 1993, vice president of global footwear in 1998 and president of the nike brand in 2001. andrew campion , executive vice president and chief financial officer mr. campion, 47, joined nike in 2007 as vice president of global planning and development, leading strategic and financial planning. he was appointed chief financial officer of the nike brand in 2010, responsible for leading all aspects of financial management for the company's flagship brand. in 2014, he was appointed senior vice president, strategy, finance and investor relations in addition to his role as chief financial officer of nike brand. mr. campion assumed the role of executive vice president and chief financial officer in august 2015. prior to joining nike, he held leadership roles in strategic planning, mergers and acquisitions, financial planning and analysis, operations and planning, investor relations and tax at the walt disney company from 1996 to 2007. elliott hill , president, consumer and marketplace mr. hill, 55, joined nike in 1988, with primary responsibilities in sales and retail. he has served as apparel sales director in europe, retail development director in europe, vice president of sales and retail in emea, general manager of us retail, vice president of us sales, retail and nike.com, and vice president of global retail. most recently, mr. hill served as president of geographies and sales and vice president and general manager of north america. mr. hill was appointed president, consumer and marketplace in 2018. hilary k. krane , executive vice president, chief administrative officer and general counsel ms. krane, 55, joined nike as vice president and general counsel in 2010. in 2011, her responsibilities expanded, and she became vice president, general counsel and corporate affairs. ms. krane was appointed executive vice president, chief administrative officer and general counsel in 2013. prior to joining nike, ms. krane was general counsel and senior vice president for corporate affairs at levi strauss &amp; co. from 2006 to 2010. from 1996 to 2006, she was a partner and assistant general counsel at pricewaterhousecoopers llp. monique s. matheson , executive vice president, global human resources ms. matheson, 52, joined nike in 1998, with primary responsibilities in the human resources function. she was appointed as vice president and senior business partner in 2011 and vice president, chief talent and diversity officer in 2012. ms. matheson was appointed executive vice president, global human resources in 2017. john f. slusher , executive vice president, global sports marketing mr. slusher, 50, joined nike in 1998, with primary responsibilities in global sports marketing. mr. slusher was appointed director of sports marketing for asia pacific and americas in 2006, divisional vice president of asia pacific &amp; americas sports marketing in september 2007 and vice president, global sports marketing in november 2007. prior to joining nike, mr. slusher was an attorney at the law firm of o'melveny &amp; myers from 1995 to 1998. eric d. sprunk , chief operating officer mr. sprunk, 55, joined nike in 1993. he was appointed finance director and general manager of the americas in 1994, finance director for nike europe in 1995, regional general manager of nike europe footwear in 1998 and vice president &amp; general manager of the americas in 2000. mr. sprunk was appointed vice president of global footwear in 2001, vice president of merchandising and product in 2009 and chief operating officer in 2013. prior to joining nike, mr. sprunk was a certified public accountant with price waterhouse from 1987 to 1993. 2019 form 10-k 7 table of contents item 1a. risk factors special note regarding forward-looking statements and analyst reports certain written and oral statements, other than purely historic information, including estimates, projections, statements relating to nike's business plans, objectives and expected operating results and the assumptions upon which those statements are based, made or incorporated by reference from time to time by nike or its representatives in this report, other reports, filings with the sec, press releases, conferences or otherwise, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended. forward-looking statements include, without limitation, any statement that may predict, forecast, indicate or imply future results, performance or achievements, and may contain the words believe, anticipate, expect, estimate, project, will be, will continue, will likely result or words or phrases of similar meaning. forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties which may cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. the risks and uncertainties are detailed from time to time in reports filed by nike with the sec, including reports filed on forms 8-k, 10-q and 10-k, and include, among others, the following: international, national and local general economic and market conditions; the size and growth of the overall athletic footwear, apparel and equipment markets; intense competition among designers, marketers, distributors and sellers of athletic footwear, apparel and equipment for consumers and endorsers; demographic changes; changes in consumer preferences; popularity of particular designs, categories of products and sports; seasonal and geographic demand for nike products; difficulties in anticipating or forecasting changes in consumer preferences, consumer demand for nike products and the various market factors described above; difficulties in implementing, operating and maintaining nike's increasingly complex information technology systems and controls, including, without limitation, the systems related to demand and supply planning and inventory control; interruptions in data and information technology systems; consumer data security; fluctuations and difficulty in forecasting operating results, including, without limitation, the fact that advance orders may not be indicative of future revenues due to changes in shipment timing, the changing mix of orders with shorter lead times, and discounts, order cancellations and returns; the ability of nike to sustain, manage or forecast its growth and inventories; the size, timing and mix of purchases of nike's products; increases in the cost of materials, labor and energy used to manufacture products; new product development and introduction; the ability to secure and protect trademarks, patents and other intellectual property; product performance and quality; customer service; adverse publicity, including without limitation, through social media or in connection with brand damaging events; the loss of significant customers or suppliers; dependence on distributors and licensees; business disruptions; increased costs of freight and transportation to meet delivery deadlines; increases in borrowing costs due to any decline in nike's debt ratings; changes in business strategy or development plans; general risks associated with doing business outside of the united states, including, without limitation, exchange rate fluctuations, inflation, import duties, tariffs, quotas, political and economic instability and terrorism; the impact of u.s. tax reform legislation on our results of operations; the potential impact of new laws, regulations or policy, including, without limitation, tariffs, import/export, trade and immigration regulations or policies; changes in government regulations; the impact of, including business and legal developments relating to, climate change and natural disasters; litigation, regulatory proceedings, sanctions or any other claims asserted against nike; the ability to attract and retain qualified employees, and any negative public perception with respect to key personnel; the effects of nike's decision to invest in or divest of businesses and other factors referenced or incorporated by reference in this report and other reports. the risks included here are not exhaustive. other sections of this report may include additional factors which could adversely affect nike's business and financial performance. moreover, nike operates in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. new risks emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risks, nor can it assess the impact of all such risks on nike's business or the extent to which any risk, or combination of risks, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. investors should also be aware that while nike does, from time to time, communicate with securities analysts, it is against nike's policy to disclose to them any material non-public information or other confidential commercial information. accordingly, shareholders should not assume that nike agrees with any statement or report issued by any analyst irrespective of the content of the statement or report. furthermore, nike has a policy against confirming financial forecasts or projections issued by others. thus, to the extent that reports issued by securities analysts contain any projections, forecasts or opinions, such reports are not the responsibility of nike. our products face intense competition. nike is a consumer products company and the relative popularity of various sports and fitness activities and changing design trends affect the demand for our products. the athletic footwear, apparel and equipment industry is highly competitive both in the united states and worldwide. we compete internationally with a significant number of athletic and leisure footwear companies, athletic and leisure apparel companies, sports equipment companies and large companies having diversified lines of athletic and leisure footwear, apparel and equipment. we also compete with other companies for the production capacity of independent manufacturers that produce our products. our nike direct operations, both through our digital commerce operations and retail stores, also compete with multi-brand retailers selling our products. 8 nike, inc. table of contents product offerings, technologies, marketing expenditures (including expenditures for advertising and endorsements), pricing, costs of production, customer service, digital commerce platforms and social media presence are areas of intense competition. this, in addition to rapid changes in technology and consumer preferences in the markets for athletic and leisure footwear and apparel and athletic equipment, constitute significant risk factors in our operations. in addition, the competitive nature of retail including shifts in the ways in which consumers are shopping, and the rising trend of digital commerce, constitutes a risk factor implicating our nike direct and wholesale operations. if we do not adequately and timely anticipate and respond to our competitors, our costs may increase or the consumer demand for our products may decline significantly. failure to maintain our reputation and brand image could negatively impact our business. our iconic brands have worldwide recognition, and our success depends on our ability to maintain and enhance our brand image and reputation. maintaining, promoting and growing our brands will depend on our design and marketing efforts, including advertising and consumer campaigns, product innovation and product quality. our commitment to product innovation and quality and our continuing investment in design (including materials) and marketing may not have the desired impact on our brand image and reputation. in addition, our success in maintaining, extending and expanding our brand image depends on our ability to adapt to a rapidly changing media environment, including our increasing reliance on social media and digital dissemination of advertising campaigns. we could be adversely impacted if we fail to achieve any of these objectives. our brand value also depends on our ability to maintain a positive consumer perception of our corporate integrity and brand culture. negative claims or publicity involving us, our products, consumer data, or any of our key employees, endorsers, sponsors or suppliers could seriously damage our reputation and brand image, regardless of whether such claims are accurate. for example, while we require our suppliers of our products to operate their business in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, we do not control their practices. negative publicity relating to a violation or an alleged violation of policies or laws by such suppliers could damage our brand image. social media, which accelerates and potentially amplifies the scope of negative publicity, can increase the challenges of responding to negative claims. adverse publicity about regulatory or legal action against us, or by us, could also damage our reputation and brand image, undermine consumer confidence in us and reduce long-term demand for our products, even if the regulatory or legal action is unfounded or not material to our operations. if the reputation or image of any of our brands is tarnished or if we receive negative publicity, then our sales, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. if we are unable to anticipate consumer preferences and develop new products, we may not be able to maintain or increase our revenues and profits. our success depends on our ability to identify, originate and define product trends as well as to anticipate, gauge and react to changing consumer demands in a timely manner. however, lead times for many of our products may make it more difficult for us to respond rapidly to new or changing product trends or consumer preferences. all of our products are subject to changing consumer preferences that cannot be predicted with certainty. our new products may not receive consumer acceptance as consumer preferences could shift rapidly to different types of performance products or away from these types of products altogether, and our future success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and respond to these changes. if we fail to anticipate accurately and respond to trends and shifts in consumer preferences by adjusting the mix of existing product offerings, developing new products, designs, styles and categories, and influencing sports and fitness preferences through extensive marketing, we could experience lower sales, excess inventories or lower profit margins, any of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. in addition, we market our products globally through a diverse spectrum of advertising and promotional programs and campaigns, including social media, mobile applications and online advertising. if we do not successfully market our products or if advertising and promotional costs increase, these factors could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we rely on technical innovation and high-quality products to compete in the market for our products. technical innovation and quality control in the design and manufacturing process of footwear, apparel and athletic equipment is essential to the commercial success of our products. research and development play a key role in technical innovation. we rely upon specialists in the fields of biomechanics, chemistry, exercise physiology, engineering, industrial design, sustainability and related fields, as well as research committees and advisory boards made up of athletes, coaches, trainers, equipment managers, orthopedists, podiatrists and other experts to develop and test cutting-edge performance products. while we strive to produce products that help to enhance athletic performance, reduce injury and maximize comfort, if we fail to introduce technical innovation in our products, consumer demand for our products could decline, and if we experience problems with the quality of our products, we may incur substantial expense to remedy the problems. failure to continue to obtain or maintain high-quality endorsers of our products could harm our business. we establish relationships with professional athletes, sports teams and leagues, as well as other public figures, including artists, designers and influencers, to develop, evaluate and promote our products, as well as establish product authenticity with consumers. however, as competition in our industry has increased, the costs associated with establishing and retaining such sponsorships and other relationships have increased. if we are unable to maintain our current associations with professional 2019 form 10-k 9 table of contents athletes, sports teams and leagues, or other public figures, or to do so at a reasonable cost, we could lose the high visibility or on-field authenticity associated with our products, and we may be required to modify and substantially increase our marketing investments. as a result, our brands, net revenues, expenses and profitability could be harmed. furthermore, if certain endorsers were to stop using our products contrary to their endorsement agreements, our business could be adversely affected. in addition, actions taken by athletes, teams or leagues, or other endorsers, associated with our products that harm the reputations of those athletes, teams or leagues, or endorsers, could also seriously harm our brand image with consumers and, as a result, could have an adverse effect on our sales and financial condition. in addition, poor performance by our endorsers, a failure to continue to correctly identify promising athletes, public figures or sports organizations, to use and endorse our products or a failure to enter into cost-effective endorsement arrangements with prominent athletes, public figures, and sports organizations could adversely affect our brand, sales and profitability. general economic factors beyond our control, and changes in the global economic environment, including fluctuations in inflation and currency exchange rates, could result in lower revenues, higher costs and decreased margins and earnings. a majority of our products are manufactured and sold outside of the united states, and we conduct purchase and sale transactions in various currencies, which increases our exposure to the volatility of global economic conditions, including fluctuations in inflation and foreign currency exchange rates. additionally, there has been, and may continue to be, volatility in currency exchange rates as a result of the united kingdom's impending exit from the european union, commonly referred to as brexit or new or proposed u.s. policy changes that impact the u.s. dollar value relative to other international currencies. our international revenues and expenses generally are derived from sales and operations in foreign currencies, and these revenues and expenses could be affected by currency fluctuations, specifically amounts recorded in foreign currencies and translated into u.s. dollars for consolidated financial reporting, as weakening of foreign currencies relative to the u.s. dollar adversely affects the u.s. dollar value of the company's foreign currency-denominated sales and earnings. currency exchange rate fluctuations could also disrupt the business of the independent manufacturers that produce our products by making their purchases of raw materials more expensive and more difficult to finance. foreign currency fluctuations have adversely affected and could continue to have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we may hedge certain foreign currency exposures to lessen and delay, but not to completely eliminate, the effects of foreign currency fluctuations on our financial results. since the hedging activities are designed to lessen volatility, they not only reduce the negative impact of a stronger u.s. dollar or other trading currency, but they also reduce the positive impact of a weaker u.s. dollar or other trading currency. our future financial results could be significantly affected by the value of the u.s. dollar in relation to the foreign currencies in which we conduct business. the degree to which our financial results are affected for any given time period will depend in part upon our hedging activities. global economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. the uncertain state of the global economy continues to impact businesses around the world, most acutely in emerging markets and developing economies. if global economic and financial market conditions do not improve or deteriorate, the following factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition: slower consumer spending may result in reduced demand for our products, reduced orders from retailers for our products, order cancellations, lower revenues, higher discounts, increased inventories and lower gross margins. in the future, we may be unable to access financing in the credit and capital markets at reasonable rates in the event we find it desirable to do so. we conduct transactions in various currencies, which increases our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar. continued volatility in the markets and exchange rates for foreign currencies and contracts in foreign currencies, including in response to certain policies advocated or implemented by the u.s. presidential administration, could have a significant impact on our reported operating results and financial condition. continued volatility in the availability and prices for commodities and raw materials we use in our products and in our supply chain (such as cotton or petroleum derivatives) could have a material adverse effect on our costs, gross margins and profitability. if retailers of our products experience declining revenues or experience difficulty obtaining financing in the capital and credit markets to purchase our products, this could result in reduced orders for our products, order cancellations, late retailer payments, extended payment terms, higher accounts receivable, reduced cash flows, greater expense associated with collection efforts and increased bad debt expense. if retailers of our products experience severe financial difficulty, some may become insolvent and cease business operations, which could negatively impact the sale of our products to consumers. 10 nike, inc. table of contents if contract manufacturers of our products or other participants in our supply chain experience difficulty obtaining financing in the capital and credit markets to purchase raw materials or to finance capital equipment and other general working capital needs, it may result in delays or non-delivery of shipments of our products. our business is affected by seasonality, which could result in fluctuations in our operating results. we experience moderate fluctuations in aggregate sales volume during the year. historically, revenues in the first and fourth fiscal quarters have slightly exceeded those in the second and third fiscal quarters. however, the mix of product sales may vary considerably from time to time as a result of changes in seasonal and geographic demand for particular types of footwear, apparel and equipment and in connection with the timing of significant sporting events, such as the nba finals, olympics or the world cup, among others. in addition, our customers may cancel orders, change delivery schedules or change the mix of products ordered with minimal notice. as a result, we may not be able to accurately predict our quarterly sales. accordingly, our results of operations are likely to fluctuate significantly from period to period. this seasonality, along with other factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions, changes in consumer preferences, weather conditions, availability of import quotas, transportation disruptions and currency exchange rate fluctuations, could adversely affect our business and cause our results of operations to fluctuate. our operating margins are also sensitive to a number of additional factors that are beyond our control, including manufacturing and transportation costs, shifts in product sales mix and geographic sales trends, all of which we expect to continue. results of operations in any period should not be considered indicative of the results to be expected for any future period. we may be adversely affected by the financial health of our customers. we extend credit to our customers based on an assessment of a customer's financial condition, generally without requiring collateral. to assist in the scheduling of production and the shipping of our products, we offer certain customers the opportunity to place orders five to six months ahead of delivery under our futures ordering program. these advance orders may be canceled under certain conditions, and the risk of cancellation may increase when dealing with financially unstable retailers or retailers struggling with economic uncertainty. in the past, some customers have experienced financial difficulties up to and including bankruptcies, which have had an adverse effect on our sales, our ability to collect on receivables and our financial condition. when the retail economy weakens or as consumer behavior shifts, retailers may be more cautious with orders. a slowing or changing economy in our key markets could adversely affect the financial health of our customers, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. in addition, product sales are dependent in part on high quality merchandising and an appealing retail environment to attract consumers, which requires continuing investments by retailers. retailers that experience financial difficulties may fail to make such investments or delay them, resulting in lower sales and orders for our products. failure to accurately forecast consumer demand could lead to excess inventories or inventory shortages, which could result in decreased operating margins, reduced cash flows and harm to our business. to meet anticipated demand for our products, we purchase products from manufacturers outside of our futures ordering program and in advance of customer orders, which we hold in inventory and resell to customers. there is a risk we may be unable to sell excess products ordered from manufacturers. inventory levels in excess of customer demand may result in inventory write-downs, and the sale of excess inventory at discounted prices could significantly impair our brand image and have an adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. conversely, if we underestimate consumer demand for our products or if our manufacturers fail to supply products we require at the time we need them, we may experience inventory shortages. inventory shortages might delay shipments to customers, negatively impact retailer, distributor and consumer relationships and diminish brand loyalty. the difficulty in forecasting demand also makes it difficult to estimate our future results of operations, financial condition and cash flows from period to period. a failure to accurately predict the level of demand for our products could adversely affect our net revenues and net income, and we are unlikely to forecast such effects with any certainty in advance. consolidation of retailers or concentration of retail market share among a few retailers may increase and concentrate our credit risk and impair our ability to sell products. the athletic footwear, apparel and equipment retail markets in some countries are dominated by a few large athletic footwear, apparel and equipment retailers with many stores. these retailers have in the past increased their market share by expanding through acquisitions and construction of additional stores. these situations concentrate our credit risk with a relatively small number of retailers, and, if any of these retailers were to experience a shortage of liquidity or consumer behavior shifts away from traditional retail, it would increase the risk that their outstanding payables to us may not be paid. in addition, increasing market share concentration among one or a few retailers in a particular country or region increases the risk that if any one of them substantially reduces their purchases of our products, we may be unable to find a sufficient number of other retail outlets for our products to sustain the same level of sales and revenues. 2019 form 10-k 11 table of contents our nike direct operations have required and will continue to require a substantial investment and commitment of resources and are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties. our nike direct stores have required substantial fixed investment in equipment and leasehold improvements, information systems and personnel. we have entered into substantial operating lease commitments for retail space. certain stores have been designed and built to serve as high-profile venues to promote brand awareness and marketing activities. because of their unique design elements, locations and size, these stores require substantially more investment than other stores. due to the high fixed-cost structure associated with our nike direct operations, a decline in sales, a shift in consumer behavior away from brick-and-mortar retail, or the closure or poor performance of individual or multiple stores could result in significant lease termination costs, write-offs of equipment and leasehold improvements and employee-related costs. many factors unique to retail operations, some of which are beyond the company's control, pose risks and uncertainties. risks include, but are not limited to: credit card fraud; mismanagement of existing retail channel partners; and inability to manage costs associated with store construction and operation. in addition, extreme weather conditions in the areas in which our stores are located could adversely affect our business. if the technology-based systems that give our consumers the ability to shop with us online do not function effectively, our operating results, as well as our ability to grow our digital commerce business globally, could be materially adversely affected. many of our consumers shop with us through our digital platforms. increasingly, consumers are using mobile-based devices and applications to shop online with us and with our competitors, and to do comparison shopping. we are increasingly using social media and proprietary mobile applications to interact with our consumers and as a means to enhance their shopping experience. any failure on our part to provide attractive, effective, reliable, user-friendly digital commerce platforms that offer a wide assortment of merchandise with rapid delivery options and that continually meet the changing expectations of online shoppers could place us at a competitive disadvantage, result in the loss of digital commerce and other sales, harm our reputation with consumers, have a material adverse impact on the growth of our digital commerce business globally and could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. risks specific to our digital commerce business also include diversion of sales from our and our retailers' brick and mortar stores, difficulty in recreating the in-store experience through direct channels and liability for online content. our failure to successfully respond to these risks might adversely affect sales in our digital commerce business, as well as damage our reputation and brands. failure to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights could adversely affect our business. we periodically discover counterfeit reproductions of our products or products that otherwise infringe our intellectual property rights. if we are unsuccessful in enforcing our intellectual property rights, continued sales of these products could adversely affect our sales and our brand and could result in a shift of consumer preference away from our products. the actions we take to establish and protect our intellectual property rights may not be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others. we also may be unable to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as violations of proprietary rights. we may be subject to liability if third parties successfully claim we infringe on their intellectual property rights. defending infringement claims could be expensive and time-consuming and might result in our entering into costly license agreements. we also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development, use, importation and/or sale of certain products. we take various actions to prevent the unauthorized use and/or disclosure of our confidential information and intellectual property rights. these actions include contractual measures such as entering into non-disclosure and non-compete agreements and agreements relating to our collaborations with third parties and providing confidential information awareness training. our controls and efforts to prevent unauthorized use and/or disclosure of confidential information and intellectual property rights might not always be effective. for example, confidential information related to business strategy, new technologies, mergers and acquisitions, unpublished financial results or personal data could be prematurely, inadvertently, or improperly used and/or disclosed, resulting in a loss of reputation, a decline in our stock price and/or a negative impact on our market position, and could lead to damages, fines, penalties or injunctions. in addition, the laws of certain countries may not protect or allow enforcement of intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. we may face significant expenses and liability in connection with the protection of our intellectual property rights, including outside the united states, and if we are unable to successfully protect our rights or resolve intellectual property conflicts with others, our business or financial condition may be adversely affected. we are subject to data security and privacy risks that could negatively affect our results, operations or reputation. in addition to our own sensitive and proprietary business information, we handle transactional and personal information about our customers and users of our digital experiences, which include online distribution channels and product engagement, adaptive products and personal fitness applications. hackers and data thieves are increasingly sophisticated and operate social 12 nike, inc. table of contents engineering, such as phishing, and large-scale, complex automated attacks that can evade detection for long periods of time. any breach of our or our service providers' network, or other vendor systems, may result in the loss of confidential business and financial data, misappropriation of our consumers', users' or employees' personal information or a disruption of our business. any of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business, including unwanted media attention, impairment of our consumer and customer relationships, damage to our reputation; resulting in lost sales and consumers, fines, lawsuits, or significant legal and remediation expenses. we also may need to expend significant resources to protect against, respond to and/or redress problems caused by any breach. in addition, we must comply with increasingly complex and rigorous regulatory standards enacted to protect business and personal data in the u.s., europe and elsewhere. for example, the european union adopted the general data protection regulation (the gdpr ), which became effective on may 25, 2018; and california passed the california consumer privacy act (the "ccpa") which will go into effect in 2020. these laws impose additional obligations on companies regarding the handling of personal data and provides certain individual privacy rights to persons whose data is stored. compliance with existing, proposed and recently enacted laws (including implementation of the privacy and process enhancements called for under gdpr and ccpa) and regulations can be costly; any failure to comply with these regulatory standards could subject us to legal and reputational risks. misuse of or failure to secure personal information could also result in violation of data privacy laws and regulations, proceedings against the company by governmental entities or others, damage to our reputation and credibility and could have a negative impact on revenues and profits. we are subject to the risk our licensees may not generate expected sales or maintain the value of our brands. we currently license, and expect to continue licensing, certain of our proprietary rights, such as trademarks or copyrighted material, to third parties. if our licensees fail to successfully market and sell licensed products, or fail to obtain sufficient capital or effectively manage their business operations, customer relationships, labor relationships, supplier relationships or credit risks, it could adversely affect our revenues, both directly from reduced royalties received and indirectly from reduced sales of our other products. we also rely on our licensees to help preserve the value of our brands. although we attempt to protect our brands through approval rights over the design, production processes, quality, packaging, merchandising, distribution, advertising and promotion of our licensed products, we cannot completely control the use of our licensed brands by our licensees. the misuse of a brand by or negative publicity involving a licensee could have a material adverse effect on that brand and on us. failure of our contractors or our licensees' contractors to comply with our code of conduct, local laws and other standards could harm our business. we work with hundreds of contractors outside of the united states to manufacture our products, and we also have license agreements that permit unaffiliated parties to manufacture or contract for the manufacture of products using our intellectual property. we require the contractors that directly manufacture our products and our licensees that make products using our intellectual property (including, indirectly, their contract manufacturers) to comply with a code of conduct and other environmental, health and safety standards for the benefit of workers. we also require these contractors to comply with applicable standards for product safety. notwithstanding their contractual obligations, from time to time contractors may not comply with such standards or applicable local law or our licensees may fail to enforce such standards or applicable local law on their contractors. significant or continuing noncompliance with such standards and laws by one or more contractors could harm our reputation or result in a product recall and, as a result, could have an adverse effect on our sales and financial condition. negative publicity regarding production methods, alleged practices or workplace or related conditions of any of our suppliers, manufacturers or licensees could adversely affect our brand image and sales and force us to locate alternative suppliers, manufacturers or licenses. our international operations involve inherent risks which could result in harm to our business. virtually all of our athletic footwear and apparel is manufactured outside of the united states, and the majority of our products are sold outside of the united states. accordingly, we are subject to the risks generally associated with global trade and doing business abroad, which include foreign laws and regulations, varying consumer preferences across geographic regions, political unrest, disruptions or delays in cross-border shipments and changes in economic conditions in countries in which our products are manufactured or where we sell products. this includes, for example, the uncertainty surrounding the effect of brexit, including changes to the legal and regulatory framework that apply to the united kingdom and its relationship with the european union, as well as new and proposed changes affecting tax laws and trade policy in the u.s. and elsewhere as further described below under we could be subject to changes in tax rates, adoption of new tax laws, additional tax liabilities or increased volatility in our effective tax rate and changes to u.s. trade policy, tariff and import/export regulations may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the u.s. presidential administration has indicated a focus on policy reforms that discourage u.s. corporations from outsourcing manufacturing and production activities to foreign jurisdictions, including through tariffs or penalties on goods manufactured outside the u.s., which may require us to change the way we conduct business and adversely affect our results of operations. the administration has also targeted the specific practices of certain u.s. multinational corporations in public statements which, if directed at us, could harm our reputation or otherwise negatively impact our business. 2019 form 10-k 13 table of contents in addition, disease outbreaks, terrorist acts and military conflict have increased the risks of doing business abroad. these factors, among others, could affect our ability to manufacture products or procure materials, our ability to import products, our ability to sell products in international markets and our cost of doing business. if any of these or other factors make the conduct of business in a particular country undesirable or impractical, our business could be adversely affected. in addition, many of our imported products are subject to duties, tariffs or quotas that affect the cost and quantity of various types of goods imported into the united states and other countries. any country in which our products are produced or sold may eliminate, adjust or impose new quotas, duties, tariffs, safeguard measures, anti-dumping duties, cargo restrictions to prevent terrorism, restrictions on the transfer of currency, climate change legislation, product safety regulations or other charges or restrictions, any of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we could be subject to changes in tax rates, adoption of new tax laws, additional tax liabilities or increased volatility in our effective tax rate. we are subject to the tax laws in the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. current economic and political conditions make tax laws and regulations, or their interpretation and application, in any jurisdiction subject to significant change. on december 22, 2017, the u.s. enacted the tax cuts and jobs act (the tax act ), which includes a number of significant changes to previous u.s. tax laws that impact us, including provisions for a one-time transition tax on deemed repatriation of undistributed foreign earnings, and a reduction in the corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% for tax years beginning after december 31, 2017, among other changes. the tax act also transitions u.s. international taxation from a worldwide system to a modified territorial system and includes base erosion prevention measures on non-u.s. earnings, which has the effect of subjecting certain earnings of our foreign subsidiaries to u.s. taxation. implementation of the tax act required us to record incremental provisional tax expense in fiscal 2018, which increased our effective tax rate in fiscal 2018. we completed our analysis of the tax act in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 and no adjustments were made to the provisional amounts recorded. we earn a substantial portion of our income in foreign countries and are subject to the tax laws of those jurisdictions. there have been proposals to reform foreign tax laws that could significantly impact how u.s. multinational corporations are taxed on foreign earnings. although we cannot predict whether or in what form these proposals will pass, several of the proposals considered, if enacted into law, could have an adverse impact on our income tax expense and cash flows. portions of our operations are subject to a reduced tax rate or are free of tax under various tax holidays and rulings. we also utilize tax rulings and other agreements to obtain certainty in treatment of certain tax matters. these holidays and rulings expire in whole or in part from time to time and may be extended when certain conditions are met, or terminated if certain conditions are not met. the impact of any changes in conditions would be the loss of certainty in treatment thus potentially impacting our effective income tax rate. for example, in january 2019, the european commission opened a formal investigation to examine whether the netherlands has breached state aid rules when granting certain tax rulings to the company. if this matter is adversely resolved, the netherlands may be required to assess additional amounts with respect to current and prior periods and the company's netherlands income taxes in the future could increase. we are also subject to the examination of our tax returns by the united states internal revenue service ( irs ) and other tax authorities. we regularly assess the likelihood of an adverse outcome resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of its provision for income taxes. although we believe our tax provisions are adequate, the final determination of tax audits and any related disputes could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. the results of audits or related disputes could have an adverse effect on our financial statements for the period or periods for which the applicable final determinations are made. for example, we and our subsidiaries are also engaged in a number of intercompany transactions across multiple tax jurisdictions. although we believe we have clearly reflected the economics of these transactions and the proper local transfer pricing documentation is in place, tax authorities may propose and sustain adjustments that could result in changes that may impact our mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates. changes to u.s. trade policy, tariff and import/export regulations or our failure to comply with such regulations may have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. changes in u.s. or international social, political, regulatory and economic conditions or in laws and policies governing foreign trade, manufacturing, development and investment in the territories or countries where we currently sell our products or conduct our business, as well as any negative sentiment toward the u.s. as a result of such changes, could adversely affect our business. the u.s. presidential administration has instituted or proposed changes in trade policies that include the negotiation or termination of trade agreements, the imposition of higher tariffs on imports into the u.s., economic sanctions on individuals, corporations or countries, and other government regulations affecting trade between the u.s. and other countries where we conduct our business. it may be time-consuming and expensive for us to alter our business operations in order to adapt to or comply with any such changes. as a result of recent policy changes of the u.s. presidential administration and recent u.s. government proposals, there may be greater restrictions and economic disincentives on international trade. the new tariffs and other changes in u.s. trade policy has in the past and could continue to trigger retaliatory actions by affected countries, and certain foreign governments have instituted 14 nike, inc. table of contents or are considering imposing retaliatory measures on certain u.s. goods. the company, similar to many other multinational corporations, does a significant amount of business that would be impacted by changes to the trade policies of the u.s. and foreign countries (including governmental action related to tariffs, international trade agreements, or economic sanctions). such changes have the potential to adversely impact the u.s. economy or certain sectors thereof, our industry and the global demand for our products, and as a result, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if one or more of our counterparty financial institutions default on their obligations to us or fail, we may incur significant losses. as part of our hedging activities, we enter into transactions involving derivative financial instruments, which may include forward contracts, commodity futures contracts, option contracts, collars and swaps with various financial institutions. in addition, we have significant amounts of cash, cash equivalents and other investments on deposit or in accounts with banks or other financial institutions in the united states and abroad. as a result, we are exposed to the risk of default by or failure of counterparty financial institutions. the risk of counterparty default or failure may be heightened during economic downturns and periods of uncertainty in the financial markets. if one of our counterparties were to become insolvent or file for bankruptcy, our ability to recover losses incurred as a result of default, or our assets deposited or held in accounts with such counterparty, may be limited by the counterparty's liquidity or the applicable laws governing the insolvency or bankruptcy proceedings. in the event of default or failure of one or more of our counterparties, we could incur significant losses, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. we rely on a concentrated source base of contract manufacturers to supply a significant portion of our footwear products. nike is supplied by 112 footwear factories located in 12 countries. we do not own or operate any of the footwear manufacturing facilities and depend upon independent contract manufacturers to manufacture all of the footwear products we sell. in fiscal 2019 , four footwear contract manufacturers each accounted for greater than 10% of fiscal 2019 footwear production and in aggregate accounted for approximately 61% of nike brand footwear production in fiscal 2019 . our ability to meet our customers' needs depends on our ability to maintain a steady supply of products from our independent contract manufacturers. if one or more of our significant suppliers were to sever their relationship with us or significantly alter the terms of our relationship, including due to changes in applicable trade policies, we may not be able to obtain replacement products in a timely manner, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales, financial condition or results of operations. additionally, if any of our primary contract manufacturers fail to make timely shipments, do not meet our quality standards or otherwise fail to deliver us product in accordance with our plans, there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our products are subject to risks associated with overseas sourcing, manufacturing and financing. the principal materials used in our apparel products natural and synthetic fabrics and threads, specialized performance fabrics designed to efficiently wick moisture away from the body, retain heat or repel rain and/or snow as well as plastic and metal hardware are available in countries where our manufacturing takes place. the principal materials used in our footwear products natural and synthetic rubber, plastic compounds, foam cushioning materials, natural and synthetic leather, natural and synthetic fabrics and threads, nylon, canvas and polyurethane films are also locally available to manufacturers. both our apparel and footwear products are dependent upon the ability of our unaffiliated contract manufacturers to locate, train, employ and retain adequate personnel. nike contractors and suppliers buy raw materials and are subject to wage rates that are oftentimes regulated by the governments of the countries in which our products are manufactured. there could be a significant disruption in the supply of fabrics or raw materials from current sources or, in the event of a disruption, our contract manufacturers might not be able to locate alternative suppliers of materials of comparable quality at an acceptable price or at all. further, our unaffiliated contract manufacturers have experienced and may continue to experience in the future, unexpected increases in work wages, whether government mandated or otherwise and increases in compliance costs due to governmental regulation concerning certain metals used in the manufacturing of our products. in addition, we cannot be certain that our unaffiliated manufacturers will be able to fill our orders in a timely manner. if we experience significant increases in demand, or reductions in the availability of materials, or need to replace an existing manufacturer, there can be no assurance additional supplies of fabrics or raw materials or additional manufacturing capacity will be available when required on terms acceptable to us, or at all, or that any supplier or manufacturer would allocate sufficient capacity to us in order to meet our requirements. in addition, even if we are able to expand existing or find new manufacturing or sources of materials, we may encounter delays in production and added costs as a result of the time it takes to train suppliers and manufacturers in our methods, products, quality control standards and labor, health and safety standards. any delays, interruption or increased costs in labor or wages, or the supply of materials or manufacture of our products could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet retail customer and consumer demand for our products and result in lower revenues and net income both in the short- and long-term. 2019 form 10-k 15 table of contents because independent manufacturers make a majority of our products outside of our principal sales markets, our products must be transported by third parties over large geographic distances. delays in the shipment or delivery of our products due to the availability of transportation, work stoppages, port strikes, infrastructure congestion or other factors, and costs and delays associated with consolidating or transitioning between manufacturers, could adversely impact our financial performance. in addition, manufacturing delays or unexpected demand for our products may require us to use faster, but more expensive, transportation methods such as air freight, which could adversely affect our profit margins. the cost of oil is a significant component in manufacturing and transportation costs, so increases in the price of petroleum products can adversely affect our profit margins. changes in u.s. trade policies, including new and potential changes to import tariffs and existing trade policies and agreements, could also have a significant impact on our activities in foreign jurisdictions, and could adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, sojitz america performs significant import-export financing services for the company. during fiscal 2019, sojitz america provided financing and purchasing services for nike brand products sold in certain nike markets including argentina, brazil, canada, india, south africa and uruguay (collectively the sojitz markets ), excluding products produced and sold in the same country. any failure of sojitz america to provide these services or any failure of sojitz america's banks could disrupt our ability to acquire products from our suppliers and to deliver products to our customers in the sojitz markets. such a disruption could result in canceled orders that would adversely affect sales and profitability. our success depends on our global distribution facilities. we distribute our products to customers directly from the factory and through distribution centers located throughout the world. our ability to meet customer expectations, manage inventory, complete sales and achieve objectives for operating efficiencies and growth, particularly in emerging markets, depends on the proper operation of our distribution facilities, the development or expansion of additional distribution capabilities and the timely performance of services by third parties (including those involved in shipping product to and from our distribution facilities). our distribution facilities could be interrupted by information technology problems and disasters such as earthquakes or fires. any significant failure in our distribution facilities could result in an adverse effect on our business. we maintain business interruption insurance, but it may not adequately protect us from adverse effects caused by significant disruptions in our distribution facilities. we rely significantly on information technology to operate our business, including our supply chain and retail operations, and any failure, inadequacy or interruption of that technology could harm our ability to effectively operate our business. we are heavily dependent on information technology systems and networks, including the internet and third-party services ( information technology systems ), across our supply chain, including product design, production, forecasting, ordering, manufacturing, transportation, sales and distribution, as well as for processing financial information for external and internal reporting purposes, retail operations and other business activities. information technology systems are critical to many of our operating activities and our business processes and may be negatively impacted by any service interruption or shutdown. for example, our ability to effectively manage and maintain our inventory and to ship products to customers on a timely basis depends significantly on the reliability of these information technology systems. over a number of years, we have implemented information technology systems in all of the geographical regions in which we operate. our work to integrate, secure and enhance these systems and related processes in our global operations is ongoing and nike will continue to invest in these efforts. the failure of these systems to operate effectively, including as a result of security breaches, viruses, hackers, malware, natural disasters, vendor business interruptions or other causes, or failure to properly maintain, protect, repair or upgrade systems, or problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems could cause delays in product fulfillment and reduced efficiency of our operations, could require significant capital investments to remediate the problem which may not be sufficient to cover all eventualities, and may have an adverse effect on our reputation, results of operations and financial condition. we also use information technology systems to process financial information and results of operations for internal reporting purposes and to comply with regulatory financial reporting, legal and tax requirements. if information technology systems suffer severe damage, disruption or shutdown and our business continuity plans, or those of our vendors, do not effectively resolve the issues in a timely manner, we could experience delays in reporting our financial results, which could result in lost revenues and profits, as well as reputational damage. furthermore, we depend on information technology systems and personal data collection for digital marketing, digital commerce, consumer engagement and the marketing and use of our digital products and services. we also rely on our ability to engage in electronic communications throughout the world between and among our employees as well as with other third parties, including customers, suppliers, vendors and consumers. any interruption in information technology systems may impede our ability to engage in the digital space and result in lost revenues, damage to our reputation, and loss of users. the market for prime real estate is competitive. our ability to effectively obtain real estate to open new retail stores and otherwise conduct our operations, both domestically and internationally, depends on the availability of real estate that meets our criteria for traffic, square footage, co-tenancies, lease 16 nike, inc. table of contents economics, demographics and other factors. we also must be able to effectively renew our existing real estate leases. in addition, from time to time, we seek to downsize, consolidate, reposition or close some of our real estate locations, which may require modification of an existing lease. failure to secure adequate new locations or successfully modify leases for existing locations, or failure to effectively manage the profitability of our existing fleet of retail stores, could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. additionally, the economic environment may make it difficult to determine the fair market rent of real estate properties domestically and internationally. this could impact the quality of our decisions to exercise lease options at previously negotiated rents and to renew expiring leases at negotiated rents. any adverse effect on the quality of these decisions could impact our ability to retain real estate locations adequate to meet our targets or efficiently manage the profitability of our existing fleet of stores, which could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. extreme weather conditions and natural disasters could negatively impact our operating results and financial condition. extreme weather conditions in the areas in which our retail stores, suppliers, customers, distribution centers, headquarters and vendors are located could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. moreover, natural disasters such as earthquakes, hurricanes and tsunamis, whether occurring in the united states or abroad, and their related consequences and effects, including energy shortages and public health issues, could disrupt our operations, the operations of our vendors and other suppliers or result in economic instability that may negatively impact our operating results and financial condition. our financial results may be adversely affected if substantial investments in businesses and operations fail to produce expected returns. from time to time, we may invest in technology, business infrastructure, new businesses, product offering and manufacturing innovation and expansion of existing businesses, such as our digital commerce operations, which require substantial cash investments and management attention. we believe cost-effective investments are essential to business growth and profitability; however, significant investments are subject to typical risks and uncertainties inherent in developing a new business or expanding an existing business. the failure of any significant investment to provide expected returns or profitability could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and divert management attention from more profitable business operations. we are subject to a complex array of laws and regulations and litigation and other legal and regulatory proceedings, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. as a multinational corporation with operations and distribution channels throughout the world, we are subject to and must comply with extensive laws and regulations in the u.s. and other jurisdictions in which we have operations and distribution channels. if we or our employees, agents, suppliers, and other partners fail to comply with any of these laws or regulations, such failure could subject us to fines, sanctions or other penalties that could negatively affect our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. we are involved in various types of claims, lawsuits, regulatory proceedings and government investigations relating to our business, our products and the actions of our employees and representatives, including contractual and employment relationships, product liability, antitrust, trademark rights and a variety of other matters. it is not possible to predict with certainty the outcome of any such legal or regulatory proceedings or investigations, and we could in the future incur judgments, fines or penalties, or enter into settlements of lawsuits and claims that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and negatively impact our reputation. the global nature of our business means legal and compliance risks, such as anti-bribery, anti-corruption, fraud, trade, environmental, competition, privacy and other regulatory matters, will continue to exist and additional legal proceedings and other contingencies will arise from time to time, which could adversely affect us. in addition, the adoption of new laws or regulations, or changes in the interpretation of existing laws or regulations, may result in significant unanticipated legal and reputational risks. any current or future legal or regulatory proceedings could divert management's attention from our operations and result in substantial legal fees. the success of our business depends, in part, on high-quality employees, including key personnel. our success depends in part on the continued service of high-quality employees, including key executive officers and personnel. the loss of the services of key individuals, or any negative perception with respect to these individuals, could harm our business. our success also depends on our ability to recruit, retain and engage our personnel sufficiently, both to maintain our current business and to execute our strategic initiatives. competition for employees in our industry is intense and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. in addition, shifts in u.s. immigration policy could negatively impact our ability to attract, hire and retain highly skilled employees who are from outside the u.s. the sale of a large number of shares of common stock by our principal stockholder could depress the market price of our common stock. as of june 30, 2019, swoosh, llc beneficially owned approximately 78% of our class a common stock. if, on june 30, 2019, all of these shares were converted into class b common stock, the commensurate ownership percentage of our class b common stock would be approximately 16%. the shares are available for resale, subject to the requirements of the u.s. securities laws and the terms of the limited liability company agreement governing swoosh, llc. the sale or prospect of a sale of a substantial 2019 form 10-k 17 table of contents number of these shares could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. swoosh, llc was formed by philip h. knight, our chairman emeritus, to hold the majority of his shares of class a common stock. swoosh, llc is controlled by mr. knight's son and nike director, travis knight. changes in our credit ratings or macroeconomic conditions may affect our liquidity, increasing borrowing costs and limiting our financing options. our long-term debt is currently rated investment grade by standard &amp; poor's and moody's investors service. if our credit ratings are lowered, borrowing costs for future long-term debt or short-term credit facilities may increase and our financing options, including our access to the unsecured credit market, could be limited. we may also be subject to restrictive covenants that would reduce our flexibility to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, make restricted payments, pledge assets as security, make investments, loans, advances, guarantees and acquisitions, undergo fundamental changes and enter into transactions with affiliates. failure to comply with such covenants could result in a default, and as a result, the commitments of our lenders under our credit agreements may be terminated and the maturity of amounts owed may be accelerated. in addition, macroeconomic conditions, such as increased volatility or disruption in the credit markets, could adversely affect our ability to refinance existing debt. if our internal controls are ineffective, our operating results could be adversely affected. our internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls or fraud. even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in their implementation, our business and operating results could be harmed and we could fail to meet our financial reporting obligations. if our estimates or judgments relating to our critical accounting policies prove to be incorrect, our operating results could be adversely affected. the preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. we base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, as provided in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. the results of these estimates form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets, liabilities and equity, and the amount of revenue and expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources. significant assumptions and estimates used in preparing our consolidated financial statements include those related to revenue recognition, inventory reserves, contingent payments under endorsement contracts, accounting for property, plant and equipment and definite-lived assets, hedge accounting for derivatives, stock-based compensation, income taxes and other contingencies. our operating results may be adversely affected if our assumptions change or if actual circumstances differ from those in our assumptions, which could cause our operating results to fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in the price of our class b common stock. anti-takeover provisions may impair an acquisition of the company or reduce the price of our common stock. there are provisions within our articles of incorporation and oregon law intended to protect shareholder interests by providing the board of directors a means to attempt to deny coercive takeover attempts or to negotiate with a potential acquirer in order to obtain more favorable terms. such provisions include a control share acquisition statute, a freeze-out statute, two classes of stock that vote separately on certain issues, and the fact that holders of class a common stock elect three-quarters of the board of directors rounded down to the next whole number. however, such provisions could discourage, delay or prevent an unsolicited merger, acquisition or other change in control of our company that some shareholders might believe to be in their best interests or in which shareholders might receive a premium for their common stock over the prevailing market price. these provisions could also discourage proxy contests for control of the company. we may fail to meet market expectations, which could cause the price of our stock to decline. our class b common stock is traded publicly, and at any given time various securities analysts follow our financial results and issue reports on us. these reports include information about our historical financial results as well as analysts' opinions of our future performance, which may, in part, be based upon any guidance we have provided. analysts' estimates are often different from our estimates or expectations. if our operating results are below the estimates or expectations of public market analysts and investors, our stock price could decline. in the past, securities class action litigation has been brought against nike and other companies following a decline in the market price of their securities. if our stock price is volatile for any reason, we may become involved in this type of litigation in the future. any litigation could result in reputational damage, substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources needed to successfully run our business. 18 nike, inc. table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 43 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in the normal course of business and consistent with established policies and procedures, we employ a variety of financial instruments to manage exposure to fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies and interest rates. it is our policy to utilize these financial instruments only where necessary to finance our business and manage such exposures; we do not enter into these transactions for trading or speculative purposes. we are exposed to foreign currency fluctuations, primarily as a result of our international sales, product sourcing and funding activities. our foreign exchange risk management program is intended to lessen both the positive and negative effects of currency fluctuations on our consolidated results of operations, financial position and cash flows. we use forward and option contracts to hedge certain anticipated, but not yet firmly committed, transactions as well as certain firm commitments and the related receivables and payables, including third-party and intercompany transactions. we have, in the past, and may in the future, also use forward or options contracts to hedge our investment in the net assets of certain international subsidiaries to offset foreign currency translation adjustments related to our net investment in those subsidiaries. where exposures are hedged, our program has the effect of delaying the impact of exchange rate movements on our consolidated financial statements. the timing for hedging exposures, as well as the type and duration of the hedge instruments employed, are guided by our hedging policies and determined based upon the nature of the exposure and prevailing market conditions. typically, the company may enter into hedge contracts starting up to 12 to 24 months in advance of the forecasted transaction and may place incremental hedges up to 100% of the exposure by the time the forecasted transaction occurs. the majority of derivatives outstanding as of may 31, 2019 are designated as foreign currency cash flow hedges, primarily for euro/u.s. dollar, british pound/euro, chinese yuan/u.s. dollar and japanese yen/u.s. dollar currency pairs. refer to note 14 risk management and derivatives in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. our earnings are also exposed to movements in short- and long-term market interest rates. our objective in managing this interest rate exposure is to limit the impact of interest rate changes on earnings and cash flows and to reduce overall borrowing costs. to achieve these objectives, we maintain a mix of commercial paper, bank loans, and fixed-rate debt of varying maturities. market risk measurement we monitor foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk and related derivatives using a variety of techniques including a review of market value, sensitivity analysis and value-at-risk ( var ). our market-sensitive derivative and other financial instruments are foreign currency forward contracts, foreign currency option contracts, interest rate swaps, intercompany loans denominated in non-functional currencies, fixed interest rate u.s. dollar denominated debt and fixed interest rate japanese yen denominated debt. we use var to monitor the foreign exchange risk of our foreign currency forward and foreign currency option derivative instruments only. the var determines the maximum potential one-day loss in the fair value of these foreign exchange rate-sensitive financial instruments. the var model estimates assume normal market conditions and a 95% confidence level. there are various modeling techniques that can be used in the var computation. our computations are based on interrelationships between currencies and interest rates (a variance/co-variance technique). these interrelationships are a function of foreign exchange currency market changes and interest rate changes over the preceding one-year period. the value of foreign currency options does not change on a one-to-one basis with changes in the underlying currency rate. we adjust the potential loss in option value for the estimated sensitivity (the delta and gamma ) to changes in the underlying currency rate. this calculation reflects the impact of foreign currency rate fluctuations on the derivative instruments only and does not include the impact of such rate fluctuations on non-functional currency transactions (such as anticipated transactions, firm commitments, cash balances and accounts and loans receivable and payable), including those which are hedged by these instruments. the var model is a risk analysis tool and does not purport to represent actual losses in fair value we will incur nor does it consider the potential effect of favorable changes in market rates. it also does not represent the full extent of the possible loss that may occur. actual future gains and losses will differ from those estimated because of changes or differences in market rates and interrelationships, hedging instruments and hedge percentages, timing and other factors. the estimated maximum one-day loss in fair value on our foreign currency sensitive derivative financial instruments, derived using the var model, was $34 million and $93 million at may 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. the var decreased year-over-year as a result of a decrease in foreign currency volatilities at may 31, 2019. such a hypothetical loss in the fair value of our derivatives would be offset by increases in the value of the underlying transactions being hedged. the average monthly change in the fair values of foreign currency forward and foreign currency option derivative instruments was $83 million and $260 million during fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018, respectively. 44 nike, inc. table of contents the instruments not included in the var are intercompany loans denominated in non-functional currencies, fixed interest rate japanese yen denominated debt, fixed interest rate u.s. dollar denominated debt and interest rate swaps. intercompany loans and related interest amounts are eliminated in consolidation. furthermore, our non-functional currency intercompany loans are substantially hedged against foreign exchange risk through the use of forward contracts, which are included in the var calculation above. therefore, we consider the interest rate and foreign currency market risks associated with our non-functional currency intercompany loans to be immaterial to our consolidated financial position, results from operations and cash flows. details of third-party debt are provided in the table below. the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates. expected maturity date year ending may 31, (dollars in millions) 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 thereafter total fair value foreign exchange risk japanese yen functional currency long-term japanese yen debt fixed rate principal payments $ 6 $ 3 $ $ $ $ $ 9 $ 9 average interest rate 2.4 % 2.4 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 2.4 % interest rate risk japanese yen functional currency long-term japanese yen debt fixed rate principal payments $ 6 $ 3 $ $ $ $ $ 9 $ 9 average interest rate 2.4 % 2.4 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 2.4 % u.s. dollar functional currency long-term u.s. dollar debt fixed rate principal payments $ $ $ $ 500 $ $ 3,000 $ 3,500 $ 3,515 average interest rate 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 2.3 % 0.0 % 3.3 % 3.1 % the fixed interest rate japanese yen denominated debt instruments were issued by and are accounted for by one of our japanese subsidiaries. accordingly, the monthly translation of these instruments, which varies due to changes in foreign exchange rates, is recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) upon consolidation of this subsidiary. 2019 form 10-k 45 table of contentsrisk factors 8 risk factors. we report our nike brand operations based on our internal geographic organization. each nike brand geographic segment operates predominantly in one industry: the design, development, marketing and selling of athletic footwear, apparel and equipment. the company's reportable operating segments for the nike brand are: north america; europe, middle east &amp; africa (emea); greater china; and asia pacific &amp; latin america (apla), and include results for the nike and jordan brands. the hurley brand results, prior to its divestiture in the beginning of the third quarter of fiscal 2020, are included in north america. sales through our nike direct operations are managed within each geographic operating segment. converse is also a reportable operating segment and operates predominately in one industry: the design, marketing, licensing and selling of casual sneakers, apparel and accessories. converse direct to consumer operations, including digital commerce, are reported within the converse operating segment results. united states market for fiscal 2020 , nike brand and converse sales in the united states accounted for approximately 39% of total revenues, compared to 41% and 42% for fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018 , respectively. we sell our nike brand, jordan brand and converse products to thousands of retail accounts in the united states, including a mix of footwear stores, sporting goods stores, athletic specialty stores, department stores, skate, tennis and golf shops and other retail accounts. in the united states, we utilize nike sales offices to solicit such sales. during fiscal 2020 , our three largest united states customers accounted for approximately 24% of sales in the united states. our nike direct and converse direct to consumer operations sell nike brand, jordan brand and converse products to consumers through various digital platforms. in addition, our nike direct and converse direct to consumer operations sell products through the following number of retail stores in the united states: u.s. retail stores number nike brand factory stores 212 nike brand in-line stores (including employee-only stores) 28 converse stores (including factory stores) 98 total 338 in the united states, nike has seven significant distribution centers. four are located in memphis, tennessee, two of which are owned and two of which are leased. two other distribution centers, one located in indianapolis, indiana and one located in dayton, tennessee, are leased and operated by third-party logistics providers. one distribution center for converse is located in ontario, california, which is leased. there are other smaller distribution facilities located in various parts of the united states, some of which are leased or operated by third-parties. international markets for fiscal 2020 , non-u.s. nike brand and converse sales accounted for approximately 61% of total revenues, compared to 59% and 58% for fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018 , respectively. we sell our products to retail accounts, through our own nike direct operations and through a mix of independent distributors, licensees and sales representatives around the world. we sell to thousands of retail accounts and ship products from 74 distribution centers outside of the united states. during fiscal 2020 , nike's three largest customers outside of the united states accounted for approximately 15% of total non-u.s. sales. 2020 form 10-k 2 table of contents in addition to nike and converse owned digital commerce platforms in over 45 countries, our nike direct and converse direct to consumer businesses operate the following number of retail stores outside the united states: non-u.s. retail stores number nike brand factory stores 643 nike brand in-line stores (including employee-only stores) 52 converse stores (including factory stores) 63 total 758 international branch offices and subsidiaries of nike are located in argentina, australia, austria, belgium, bermuda, brazil, canada, chile, china, croatia, the czech republic, denmark, finland, france, germany, greece, hong kong, hungary, india, indonesia, ireland, israel, italy, japan, korea, macau, malaysia, mexico, the netherlands, new zealand, norway, panama, the philippines, poland, portugal, russia, singapore, slovakia, slovenia, south africa, spain, sri lanka, sweden, switzerland, taiwan, thailand, turkey, the united arab emirates, the united kingdom, uruguay and vietnam. significant customer no customer accounted for 10% or more of our consolidated net revenues during fiscal 2020 . product research, design and development we believe our research, design and development efforts are key factors in our success. technical innovation in the design and manufacturing process of footwear, apparel and athletic equipment receives continued emphasis as we strive to produce products that help to enhance athletic performance, reduce injury and maximize comfort, while reducing waste. in addition to our own staff of specialists in the areas of biomechanics, chemistry, exercise physiology, engineering, digital technologies, industrial design, sustainability and related fields, we also utilize research committees and advisory boards made up of athletes, coaches, trainers, equipment managers, orthopedists, podiatrists, physicians and other experts who consult with us and review designs, materials, concepts for product and manufacturing process improvements and compliance with product safety regulations around the world. employee athletes, athletes engaged under sports marketing contracts and other athletes wear-test and evaluate products during the design and development process. as we continue to develop new technologies, we are simultaneously focused on the design of innovative products and experiences incorporating such technologies throughout our product categories and consumer applications. using market intelligence and research, our various design teams identify opportunities to leverage new technologies in existing categories to respond to consumer preferences. the proliferation of nike air, zoom, free, flywire, dri-fit, flyknit, flyweave, flyease, zoomx, react and adaptive technologies, among others, throughout our running, nike basketball, jordan brand, football (soccer), training and sportswear categories, as well as converse, typifies our dedication to designing innovative products. manufacturing we are supplied by 122 footwear factories located in 12 countries. virtually all of our footwear is manufactured outside of the united states by over 15 independent contract manufacturers, which often operate multiple factories. the largest single footwear factory accounted for approximately 9% of total fiscal 2020 nike brand footwear production. for fiscal 2020 , contract factories in vietnam, indonesia and china manufactured approximately 50% , 24% and 22% of total nike brand footwear, respectively. we also have manufacturing agreements with independent contract manufacturers in argentina and india to manufacture footwear for sale primarily within those countries. for fiscal 2020 , four footwear contract manufacturers each accounted for greater than 10% of footwear production and in the aggregate accounted for approximately 61% of nike brand footwear production. we are supplied by 329 apparel factories located in 38 countries. the largest single apparel factory accounted for approximately 11% of total fiscal 2020 nike brand apparel production. virtually all of our apparel is manufactured outside of the united states by independent contract manufacturers which often operate multiple factories. for fiscal 2020 , contract factories in vietnam, china and cambodia produced approximately 28% , 23% and 12% of total nike brand apparel, respectively. for fiscal 2020 , two apparel contract manufacturers accounted for more than 10% of apparel production, and the top five contract manufacturers in the aggregate accounted for approximately 48% of nike brand apparel production. the principal materials used in our footwear products are natural and synthetic rubber, plastic compounds, foam cushioning materials, natural and synthetic leather, nylon, polyester and canvas, as well as polyurethane films used to make nike air-sole cushioning components. during fiscal 2020 , air manufacturing innovation, a wholly-owned subsidiary, with facilities near beaverton, oregon, in dong nai province, vietnam and st. charles, missouri, as well as independent contractors in china and 2020 form 10-k 3 table of contents vietnam, were our suppliers of materials and cushioning components used in footwear. air manufacturing innovation also manufactures and sells small amounts of various other plastic products to other manufacturers. the principal materials used in our apparel products are natural and synthetic fabrics and threads (both virgin and recycled); specialized performance fabrics designed to efficiently wick moisture away from the body, retain heat and repel rain and/or snow; and plastic and metal hardware. nike's independent contractors and suppliers buy raw materials for the manufacturing of our footwear, apparel and equipment products. most raw materials are available and purchased by those independent contractors and suppliers in the countries where manufacturing takes place. nike's independent contract manufacturers and suppliers have thus far experienced little difficulty in satisfying raw material requirements for the production of our products. since 1972, sojitz corporation of america ( sojitz america ), a large japanese trading company and the sole owner of our redeemable preferred stock, has performed import-export financing services for us. during fiscal 2020 , sojitz america provided financing and purchasing services for nike brand products sold in certain nike markets including argentina, brazil, canada, india, south africa and uruguay, excluding products produced and sold in the same country. approximately 4% of nike brand sales occurred in those countries. any failure of sojitz america to provide these services or any failure of sojitz america's banks could disrupt our ability to acquire products from our suppliers and to deliver products to our customers in those markets. such a disruption could result in canceled orders that would adversely affect sales and profitability. however, we believe that any such disruption would be short-term in duration due to the ready availability of alternative sources of financing at competitive rates. 2020 form 10-k 4 table of contents international operations and trade our international operations and sources of supply are subject to the usual risks of doing business abroad, such as the implementation of, or potential changes in, foreign and domestic trade policies, increases in import duties, anti-dumping measures, quotas, safeguard measures, trade restrictions, restrictions on the transfer of funds and, in certain parts of the world, political instability and terrorism. we have not, to date, been materially affected by any such risk, but cannot predict the likelihood of such material effects occurring in the future. in recent years, uncertain global and regional economic and political conditions have affected international trade and increased protectionist actions around the world. these trends are affecting many global manufacturing and service sectors, and the footwear and apparel industries, as a whole, are not immune. companies in our industry are facing trade protectionism in many different regions, and in nearly all cases we are working together with industry groups to address trade issues and reduce the impact to the industry, while observing applicable competition laws. notwithstanding our efforts, protectionist measures have resulted in increases in the cost of our products, and additional measures, if implemented, could adversely affect sales and/or profitability for nike, as well as the imported footwear and apparel industry as a whole. we monitor protectionist trends and developments throughout the world that may materially impact our industry, and we engage in administrative and judicial processes to mitigate trade restrictions. we are actively monitoring actions that may result in additional anti-dumping measures and could affect our industry. we are also monitoring for and advocating against other impediments that may limit or delay customs clearance for imports of footwear, apparel and equipment. nike also advocates for trade liberalization for footwear and apparel in a number of regional and bilateral free trade agreements. changes in u.s. trade policies, including new and potential tariffs or penalties on imported goods, may negatively affect u.s. corporations with production activities outside the u.s., including nike. there have also been discussions and commentary regarding retaliatory actions by countries affected by the new tariffs and other changes in u.s. trade policy, and certain foreign governments have instituted or are considering imposing retaliatory measures on certain u.s. goods, which could negatively affect u.s. corporations with business operations and/or consumer markets in those countries. depending on the extent that certain new or proposed reforms are implemented by the u.s. government and the manner in which foreign governments respond to such reforms, it may become necessary for us to change the way we conduct business, which may adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, with respect to proposed trade restrictions targeting china, which represents an important sourcing country and consumer market for us, we are working with a broad coalition of global businesses and trade associations representing a wide variety of sectors to help ensure that any legislation enacted and implemented (i) addresses legitimate and core concerns, (ii) is consistent with international trade rules and (iii) reflects and considers china's domestic economy and the important role it has in the global economic community. where trade protection measures are implemented, we believe that we have the ability to develop, over a period of time, adequate alternative sources of supply for the products obtained from our present suppliers. if events prevented us from acquiring products from our suppliers in a particular country, our operations could be temporarily disrupted and we could experience an adverse financial impact. however, we believe we could abate any such disruption, and that much of the adverse impact on supply would, therefore, be of a short-term nature, although alternate sources of supply might not be as cost-effective and could have an ongoing adverse impact on profitability. our international operations are also subject to compliance with the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, or "fcpa", and other anti-bribery laws applicable to our operations. we source a significant portion of our products from, and have important consumer markets, outside of the united states, and we have an ethics and compliance program to address compliance with the fcpa and similar laws by us, our employees, agents, suppliers and other partners. competition the athletic footwear, apparel and equipment industry is highly competitive on a worldwide basis. we compete internationally with a significant number of athletic and leisure footwear companies, athletic and leisure apparel companies, sports equipment companies and large companies having diversified lines of athletic and leisure footwear, apparel and equipment, including adidas, anta, asics, li ning, lululemon athletica, puma, under armour and v.f. corporation, among others. the intense competition and the rapid changes in technology and consumer preferences in the markets for athletic and leisure footwear and apparel and athletic equipment, constitute significant risk factors in our operations. 2020 form 10-k 5 table of contents nike is the largest seller of athletic footwear and apparel in the world. important aspects of competition in this industry are: product attributes such as quality; performance and reliability; new product style, design, innovation and development, as well as consumer price/value. consumer connection, engagement and affinity for brands and products, developed through marketing, promotion and digital experiences; social media interaction; customer support and service; identification with prominent and influential athletes, influencers, public figures, coaches, teams, colleges and sports leagues who endorse our brands and use our products and active engagement through sponsored sporting events and clinics. effective sourcing and distribution of products, with attractive merchandising and presentation at retail, both in-store and on digital platforms. we believe that we are competitive in all of these areas. trademarks and patents we believe that our intellectual property rights are important to our brand, our success and our competitive position. we strategically pursue available protections of these rights and vigorously protect them against third-party theft and infringement. we use trademarks on nearly all of our products and believe having distinctive marks that are readily identifiable is an important factor in creating a market for our goods, in identifying our brands and the company, and in distinguishing our goods from the goods of others. we consider our nike and swoosh design trademarks to be among our most valuable assets and we have registered these trademarks in almost 170 jurisdictions worldwide. in addition, we own many other trademarks that we use in marketing our products. we own common law rights in the trade dress of several significant shoe designs and elements. for certain trade dress, we have sought and obtained trademark registrations. we have copyright protection in our design, graphics and other original works. when appropriate, we also obtain registered copyrights. we file for, own and maintain many u.s. and foreign utility and design patents protecting components, technologies, materials, manufacturing techniques, features, functionality, and industrial and aesthetic designs used in and for the manufacture of various athletic and leisure footwear and apparel, athletic equipment and digital devices and related software applications. these patents expire at various times. we believe our success depends upon our capabilities in areas such as design, research and development, production and marketing and is supported by our intellectual property rights, such as trademarks, patents and trade secrets, among others. we have followed a policy of applying for and registering intellectual property rights in the united states and select foreign countries on trademarks, inventions, innovations and designs that we deem valuable. we also continue to vigorously protect our intellectual property, including trademarks, patents and trade secrets against third-party infringement. employees as of may 31, 2020 , we had approximately 75,400 employees worldwide, including retail and part-time employees. management is committed to maintaining an environment where all nike employees have the opportunity to reach their full potential. none of our employees are represented by a union, except for certain employees in the apla geography, where local law requires those employees to be represented by a trade union. also, in some countries outside of the united states, local laws require employee representation by works councils (which may be entitled to information and consultation on certain company decisions) or by organizations similar to a union. in certain european countries, we are required by local law to enter into and/or comply with industry-wide or national collective bargaining agreements. nike has never experienced a material interruption of operations due to labor disagreements. 2020 form 10-k 6 table of contents information about our executive officers the executive officers of nike, inc. as of july 24, 2020 are as follows: mark g. parker , executive chairman mr. parker, 64, is executive chairman of the board of directors and served as president and chief executive officer from 2006 - january 2020. he has been employed by nike since 1979 with primary responsibilities in product research, design and development, marketing and brand management. mr. parker was appointed divisional vice president in charge of product development in 1987, corporate vice president in 1989, general manager in 1993, vice president of global footwear in 1998 and president of the nike brand in 2001. john j. donahoe ii , president and chief executive officer mr. donahoe, 60, was appointed president and chief executive officer in january 2020 and has been a director since 2014. he brings expertise in digital commerce, technology and global strategy. he previously served as president and chief executive officer at servicenow, inc. prior to joining servicenow, inc., he served as president and chief executive officer of ebay, inc. he also held leadership roles at bain &amp; company for two decades. andrew campion , chief operating officer mr. campion, 48, joined nike in 2007 as vice president of global planning and development, leading strategic and financial planning. he was appointed chief financial officer of the nike brand in 2010, responsible for leading all aspects of financial management for the company's flagship brand. in 2014, he was appointed senior vice president, strategy, finance and investor relations. mr. campion assumed the role of executive vice president and chief financial officer in august 2015. in april 2020, he was appointed chief operating officer and leads nike's global technology and digital transformation, demand and supply management, manufacturing, distribution and logistics, sustainability, workplace design and connectivity, and procurement. prior to joining nike, he held leadership roles in strategic planning, mergers and acquisitions, financial planning and analysis, operations and planning, investor relations and tax at the walt disney company. matthew friend , executive vice president and chief financial officer mr. friend, 42, joined nike in 2009 as senior director of corporate strategy and development, and was appointed chief financial officer of emerging markets in 2011. in 2014, mr. friend was appointed chief financial officer of global categories, product and functions, and was subsequently appointed chief financial officer of the nike brand in 2016. he was also appointed vice president of investor relations in 2019. mr. friend was appointed as executive vice president and chief financial officer of nike, inc. in april 2020. prior to joining nike, he worked in the financial industry including roles as vp of investment banking and mergers and acquisitions at goldman sachs and morgan stanley. hilary k. krane , executive vice president, chief administrative officer and general counsel ms. krane, 56, joined nike as vice president and general counsel in 2010. in 2011, her responsibilities expanded, and she became vice president, general counsel and corporate affairs. ms. krane was appointed executive vice president, chief administrative officer and general counsel in 2013. prior to joining nike, ms. krane was general counsel and senior vice president for corporate affairs at levi strauss &amp; co. from 2006 to 2010. from 1996 to 2006, she was a partner and assistant general counsel at pricewaterhousecoopers llp. monique s. matheson , executive vice president, global human resources ms. matheson, 53, joined nike in 1998, with primary responsibilities in the human resources function. she was appointed as vice president and senior business partner in 2011 and vice president, chief talent and diversity officer in 2012. ms. matheson was appointed executive vice president, global human resources in 2017. heidi o'neill , president of consumer and marketplace ms. o'neill, 55, joined nike in 1998, and held a variety of leadership roles, including president of nike direct, where she was responsible for nike's connection to its consumer globally through the company's retail and digital-commerce business. she also led nike's women's business for seven years, growing it into a multi-billion dollar business, and leading the company's north america apparel business as vp/gm. ms. o'neill was appointed as president of consumer and marketplace in april 2020 and is responsible for nike's direct business, including all stores, e-commerce and apps globally. 2020 form 10-k 7 table of contents item 1a. risk factors special note regarding forward-looking statements and analyst reports certain written and oral statements, other than purely historic information, including estimates, projections, statements relating to nike's business plans, objectives and expected operating results and the assumptions upon which those statements are based, made or incorporated by reference from time to time by nike or its representatives in this report, other reports, filings with the sec, press releases, conferences or otherwise, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended. forward-looking statements include, without limitation, any statement that may predict, forecast, indicate or imply future results, performance or achievements, and may contain the words believe, anticipate, expect, estimate, project, will be, will continue, will likely result or words or phrases of similar meaning. forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties which may cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. the risks and uncertainties are detailed from time to time in reports filed by nike with the sec, including reports filed on forms 8-k, 10-q and 10-k, and include, among others, the following: health epidemics, pandemics and similar outbreaks, including the covid-19 pandemic; international, national and local political, civil, economic and market conditions; the size and growth of the overall athletic footwear, apparel and equipment markets; intense competition among designers, marketers, distributors and sellers of athletic footwear, apparel and equipment for consumers and endorsers; demographic changes; changes in consumer preferences; popularity of particular designs, categories of products and sports; seasonal and geographic demand for nike products; difficulties in anticipating or forecasting changes in consumer preferences, consumer demand for nike products and the various market factors described above; difficulties in implementing, operating and maintaining nike's increasingly complex information technology systems and controls, including, without limitation, the systems related to demand and supply planning and inventory control; interruptions in data and information technology systems; consumer data security; fluctuations and difficulty in forecasting operating results, including, without limitation, the fact that advance orders may not be indicative of future revenues due to changes in shipment timing, the changing mix of orders with shorter lead times, and discounts, order cancellations and returns; the ability of nike to sustain, manage or forecast its growth and inventories; the size, timing and mix of purchases of nike's products; increases in the cost of materials, labor and energy used to manufacture products; new product development and introduction; the ability to secure and protect trademarks, patents and other intellectual property; product performance and quality; customer service; adverse publicity, including without limitation, through social media or in connection with brand damaging events; the loss of significant customers or suppliers; dependence on distributors and licensees; business disruptions; increased costs of freight and transportation to meet delivery deadlines; increases in borrowing costs due to any decline in nike's debt ratings; changes in business strategy or development plans; general risks associated with doing business outside of the united states, including, without limitation, exchange rate fluctuations, inflation, import duties, tariffs, quotas, political and economic instability and terrorism; the potential impact of new laws, regulations or policy, including, without limitation, tariffs, import/export, trade and immigration regulations or policies; changes in government regulations; the impact of, including business and legal developments relating to, climate change and natural disasters; litigation, regulatory proceedings, sanctions or any other claims asserted against nike; the ability to attract and retain qualified employees, and any negative public perception with respect to key personnel or our corporate culture, values or purpose; the effects of nike's decision to invest in or divest of businesses and other factors referenced or incorporated by reference in this report and other reports. risk factors the risks included here are not exhaustive. other sections of this report may include additional factors which could adversely affect nike's business and financial performance. moreover, nike operates in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. new risks emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risks, nor can it assess the impact of all such risks on nike's business or the extent to which any risk, or combination of risks, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. investors should also be aware that while nike does, from time to time, communicate with securities analysts, it is against nike's policy to disclose to them any material non-public information or other confidential commercial information. accordingly, shareholders should not assume that nike agrees with any statement or report issued by any analyst irrespective of the content of the statement or report. furthermore, nike has a policy against confirming financial forecasts or projections issued by others. thus, to the extent that reports issued by securities analysts contain any projections, forecasts or opinions, such reports are not the responsibility of nike. our financial condition and results of operations have been and are expected to continue to be adversely affected by the coronavirus pandemic. a n ovel strain of coronavirus (covid-19) was first identified in wuhan, china in december 2019, and subsequently declared a pandemic by the world health organization. to date, this pandemic and preventative measures taken to contain or mitigate the pandemic have caused, and are expected to continue to cause, business slowdown or shutdown in affected areas and significant disruption in the 2020 form 10-k 8 table of contents financial markets, both globally and in the united states. these events have led to and could continue to lead to a decline in discretionary spending by consumers, and in turn materially impact, our business, sales, financial condition and results of operations. we have experienced a negative i mpact on our sales, operations and financial results, and we cannot predict the degree to, or the time period over, which our sales, operations and financial results will continue to be affected by the pandemic and preventative measures. risks presented by the covid-19 pandemic include, but are not limited to: deterioration in economic conditions in the united states and globally; reduced consumer demand for our products as consumers seek to reduce or delay discretionary spending in response to the impacts of covid-19, including as a result of a rise in unemployment rates and diminished consumer confidence; cancellation or postponement of sports seasons and sporting events in multiple countries, including in the united states, and bans on large public gatherings, which have reduced consumer spending on our products and could impact the effectiveness of our arrangements with key endorsers; decreased retail traffic as a result of store closures, reduced operating hours, social distancing restrictions and/or changes in consumer behavior; the risk that any safety protocols in nike-owned or affiliated facilities will not be effective or not be perceived as effective, or that any virus-related illnesses will be linked or alleged to be linked to such facilities, whether accurate or not; incremental costs resulting from the adoption of preventative measures, including providing facial coverings and hand sanitizer, rearranging operations to follow social distancing protocols, conducting temperature checks and undertaking regular and thorough disinfecting of surfaces; disruption to our distribution centers and our third-party manufacturing partners and other vendors, including through the effects of facility closures, reductions in operating hours, labor shortages, and real time changes in operating procedures, including for additional cleaning and disinfection procedures; bankruptcies or other financial difficulties facing our wholesale customers, which could cause them to be unable to make or delay making payments to us, or result in cancellation or reduction of their orders; operational risk, including but not limited to cybersecurity risks, as a result of extended workforce remote work arrangements, and restrictions on employee travel; impacts to our distribution and logistics providers' ability to operate or increases in their operating costs. these supply chain effects may have an adverse effect on our ability to meet consumer demand, including digital demand, and could result in an increase in our costs of production and distribution, including increased freight and logistics costs and other expenses; and significant disruption of and volatility in global financial markets, which could have a negative impact on our ability to access capital in the future. we continue to monitor the latest developments regarding the pandemic and have made certain assumptions regarding the pandemic for purposes of our operating, financial and tax planning projections, including assumptions regarding the duration and severity of the pandemic and the global macroeconomic impacts of the pandemic. however, we are unable to accurately predict the extent of the impact of the pandemic on our business, operations and financial condition due to the uncertainty of future developments. in particular, we believe the ultimate impacts on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition will depend on, among other things, the further spread and duration of covid-19, the requirements to take action to help limit the spread of the illness, the availability, safety and efficacy of a vaccine and treatments for covid-19 and the economic impacts of the pandemic. even in those regions where we are beginning to experience business recovery should those regions fail to fully contain covid-19 or suffer a covid-19 relapse, those markets may not recover as quickly or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. the pandemic may also affect our business, operations or financial condition in a manner that is not presently known to us or that we currently do not consider to present significant risks. in addition, the impact of covid-19 may also exacerbate other risks discussed in this item 1a. risk factors, any of which could have a material effect on us. global economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. the uncertain state of the global economy continues to impact businesses around the world. if global economic and financial market conditions further deteriorate or do not improve, the following factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition: our sales are impacted by discretionary spending by consumers. declines in consumer spending may result in reduced demand for our products, increased inventories, reduced orders from retailers for our products, order cancellations, lower revenues, higher discounts and lower gross margins. in the future, we may be unable to access financing in the credit and capital markets at reasonable rates in the event we find it desirable to do so. 2020 form 10-k 9 table of contents we conduct transactions in various currencies, which creates exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar. continued volatility in the markets and exchange rates for foreign currencies and contracts in foreign currencies could have a significant impact on our reported operating results and financial condition. continued volatility in the availability and prices for commodities and raw materials we use in our products and in our supply chain (such as cotton or petroleum derivatives) could have a material adverse effect on our costs, gross margins and profitability. if retailers of our products experience declining revenues or experience difficulty obtaining financing in the capital and credit markets to purchase our products, this could result in reduced orders for our products, order cancellations, late retailer payments, extended payment terms, higher accounts receivable, reduced cash flows, greater expense associated with collection efforts and increased bad debt expense. if retailers of our products experience severe financial difficulty, some may become insolvent and cease business operations, which could negatively impact the sale of our products to consumers. if contract manufacturers of our products or other participants in our supply chain experience difficulty obtaining financing in the capital and credit markets to purchase raw materials or to finance capital equipment and other general working capital needs, it may result in delays or non-delivery of shipments of our products. our products, services and experiences face intense competition. nike is a consumer products company and the relative popularity of various sports and fitness activities and changing design trends affect the demand for our products. the athletic footwear, apparel and equipment industry is highly competitive both in the united states and worldwide. we compete internationally with a significant number of athletic and leisure footwear companies, athletic and leisure apparel companies, sports equipment companies, private labels and large companies that have diversified lines of athletic and leisure footwear, apparel and equipment. we also compete with other companies for the production capacity of independent manufacturers that produce our products. our nike direct operations, both through our digital commerce operations and retail stores, also compete with multi-brand retailers, which sell our products through their digital platforms and physical stores, and with digital commerce platforms. in addition, we compete with respect to the digital experiences we are able to offer our consumers. product offerings, technologies, marketing expenditures (including expenditures for advertising and endorsements), pricing, costs of production, customer service, digital commerce platforms, digital services and experiences and social media presence are areas of intense competition. this, in addition to ongoing rapid changes in technology, a reduction in barriers to the creation of new footwear and apparel companies and consumer preferences in the markets for athletic and leisure footwear and apparel, athletic equipment, services and experiences, constitute significant risk factors in our operations. in addition, the competitive nature of retail, including shifts in the ways in which consumers shop, and the continued proliferation of digital commerce, constitutes a risk factor implicating our nike direct and wholesale operations. if we do not adequately and timely anticipate and respond to our competitors, our costs may increase, demand for our products may decline, possibly significantly, or we may need to reduce wholesale or suggested retail prices for our products. failure to maintain our reputation, brand image and culture could negatively impact our business. our iconic brands have worldwide recognition, and our success depends on our ability to maintain and enhance our brand image and reputation. maintaining, promoting and growing our brands will depend on our design and marketing efforts, including advertising and consumer campaigns, product innovation and product quality. our commitment to product innovation and quality and our continuing investment in design (including materials) and marketing may not have the desired impact on our brand image and reputation. in addition, our success in maintaining, extending and expanding our brand image depends on our ability to adapt to a rapidly changing media environment, including our increasing reliance on social media and digital dissemination of advertising campaigns on our digital platforms and through our digital experiences. we could be adversely impacted if we fail to achieve any of these objectives. our brand value also depends on our ability to maintain a positive consumer perception of our corporate integrity, purpose and brand culture. negative claims or publicity involving us, our culture and values, our products, services and experiences, consumer data, or any of our key employees, endorsers, sponsors or suppliers could seriously damage our reputation and brand image, regardless of whether such claims are accurate. for example, while we require our suppliers of our products to operate their business in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, we do not control their practices. negative publicity relating to a violation or an alleged violation of policies or laws by such suppliers could damage our brand image and diminish consumer trust in our brand. social media, which accelerates and potentially amplifies the scope of negative publicity, can increase the challenges of responding to negative claims. adverse publicity about regulatory or legal action against us, or by us, could also damage our reputation and brand image, undermine consumer confidence in us and reduce long-term demand for our products, even if the regulatory or legal action is unfounded or not material to our operations. if the reputation, culture or image of any of our brands is tarnished or if we receive negative publicity, then our sales, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 2020 form 10-k 10 table of contents our business is affected by seasonality, which could result in fluctuations in our operating results. we experience moderate fluctuations in aggregate sales volume during the year. historically, revenues in the first and fourth fiscal quarters have slightly exceeded those in the second and third fiscal quarters. however, the mix of product sales may vary considerably from time to time as a result of changes in seasonal or covid-19 related cancellations or postponements and geographic demand for particular types of footwear, apparel and equipment and in connection with the timing of significant sporting events, such as the nba finals, olympics or the world cup, among others. in addition, our customers may cancel orders, change delivery schedules or change the mix of products ordered with minimal notice. as a result, we may not be able to accurately predict our quarterly sales. accordingly, our results of operations are likely to fluctuate significantly from period to period. this seasonality, along with other factors that are beyond our control, including economic conditions, changes in consumer preferences, weather conditions, outbreaks of disease, social or political unrest, availability of import quotas, transportation disruptions and currency exchange rate fluctuations, could adversely affect our business and cause our results of operations to fluctuate. our operating margins are also sensitive to a number of additional factors that are beyond our control, including manufacturing and transportation costs, shifts in product sales mix and geographic sales trends, all of which we expect to continue. results of operations in any period should not be considered indicative of the results to be expected for any future period. if we are unable to anticipate consumer preferences and develop new products, we may not be able to maintain or increase our revenues and profits. our success depends on our ability to identify, originate and define product trends as well as to anticipate, gauge and react to changing consumer demands in a timely manner. however, lead times for many of our products may make it more difficult for us to respond rapidly to new or changing product trends or consumer preferences. all of our products are subject to changing consumer preferences that cannot be predicted with certainty. our new products may not receive consumer acceptance as consumer preferences could shift rapidly to different types of performance products or away from these types of products altogether, and our future success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and respond to these changes. if we fail to anticipate accurately and respond to trends and shifts in consumer preferences by adjusting the mix of existing product offerings, developing new products, designs, styles and categories, and influencing sports and fitness preferences through extensive marketing, we could experience lower sales, excess inventories or lower profit margins, any of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. in addition, we market our products globally through a diverse spectrum of advertising and promotional programs and campaigns, including social media, mobile applications and online advertising. if we do not successfully market our products or if advertising and promotional costs increase, these factors could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we rely on technical innovation and high-quality products to compete in the market for our products. technical innovation and quality control in the design and manufacturing process of footwear, apparel and athletic equipment is essential to the commercial success of our products. research and development play a key role in technical innovation. we rely upon specialists in the fields of biomechanics, chemistry, exercise physiology, engineering, digital technologies, industrial design, sustainability and related fields, as well as research committees and advisory boards made up of athletes, coaches, trainers, equipment managers, orthopedists, podiatrists and other experts to develop and test cutting-edge performance products. while we strive to produce products that help to enhance athletic performance, reduce injury and maximize comfort, if we fail to introduce technical innovation in our products, consumer demand for our products could decline, and if we experience problems with the quality of our products, we may incur substantial expense to remedy the problems and loss of consumer confidence. failure to continue to obtain or maintain high-quality endorsers of our products could harm our business. we establish relationships with professional athletes, sports teams and leagues, as well as other public figures, including artists, designers and influencers, to develop, evaluate and promote our products, as well as establish product authenticity with consumers. however, as competition in our industry has increased, the costs associated with establishing and retaining such sponsorships and other relationships have increased. if we are unable to maintain our current associations with professional athletes, sports teams and leagues, or other public figures, or to do so at a reasonable cost, we could lose the high visibility or on-field authenticity associated with our products, and we may be required to modify and substantially increase our marketing investments. as a result, our brands, net revenues, expenses and profitability could be harmed. furthermore, if certain endorsers were to stop using our products contrary to their endorsement agreements, our business could be adversely affected. in addition, actions taken or statements made by athletes, teams or leagues, or other endorsers, associated with our products that harm the reputations of those athletes, teams or leagues, or endorsers, could also seriously harm our brand image with consumers and, as a result, could have an adverse effect on our sales and financial condition. in addition, poor performance by our endorsers, a failure to continue to correctly identify promising athletes, public figures or sports organizations, to use and endorse our products or a failure to enter into cost-effective endorsement arrangements with prominent athletes, public figures and sports organizations could adversely affect our brand, sales and profitability. 2020 form 10-k 11 table of contents economic factors beyond our control, and changes in the global economic environment, including fluctuations in inflation and currency exchange rates, could result in lower revenues, higher costs and decreased margins and earnings. a majority of our products are manufactured and sold outside of the united states, and we conduct purchase and sale transactions in various currencies, which creates exposure to the volatility of global economic conditions, including fluctuations in inflation and foreign currency exchange rates. additionally, there has been, and may continue to be, volatility in currency exchange rates as a result of the united kingdom's exit from the european union, commonly referred to as brexit or new or proposed u.s. policy changes that impact the u.s. dollar value relative to other international currencies. our international revenues and expenses generally are derived from sales and operations in foreign currencies, and these revenues and expenses could be affected by currency fluctuations, specifically amounts recorded in foreign currencies and translated into u.s. dollars for consolidated financial reporting, as weakening of foreign currencies relative to the u.s. dollar adversely affects the u.s. dollar value of the company's foreign currency-denominated sales and earnings. currency exchange rate fluctuations could also disrupt the business of the independent manufacturers that produce our products by making their purchases of raw materials more expensive and more difficult to finance. foreign currency fluctuations have adversely affected and could continue to have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we may hedge certain foreign currency exposures to lessen and delay, but not to completely eliminate, the effects of foreign currency fluctuations on our financial results. since the hedging activities are designed to lessen volatility, they not only reduce the negative impact of a stronger u.s. dollar or other trading currency, but they also reduce the positive impact of a weaker u.s. dollar or other trading currency. our future financial results could be significantly affected by the value of the u.s. dollar in relation to the foreign currencies in which we conduct business. the degree to which our financial results are affected for any given time period will depend in part upon our hedging activities. we may be adversely affected by the financial health of our customers. we extend credit to our customers based on an assessment of a customer's financial condition, generally without requiring collateral. to assist in the scheduling of production and the shipping of our products, we offer certain customers the opportunity to place orders five to six months ahead of delivery under our futures ordering program. these advance orders may be canceled under certain conditions, and the risk of cancellation may increase when dealing with financially unstable retailers or retailers struggling with economic uncertainty. in the past, some customers have experienced financial difficulties up to and including bankruptcies, which have had an adverse effect on our sales, our ability to collect on receivables and our financial condition. when the retail economy weakens or as consumer behavior shifts, retailers may be more cautious with orders. a slowing or changing economy in our key markets could adversely affect the financial health of our customers, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. in addition, product sales are dependent in part on high quality merchandising and an appealing retail environment to attract consumers, which requires continuing investments by retailers. retailers that experience financial difficulties may fail to make such investments or delay them, resulting in lower sales and orders for our products. failure to accurately forecast consumer demand could lead to excess inventories or inventory shortages, which could result in decreased operating margins, reduced cash flows and harm to our business. to meet anticipated demand for our products, we purchase products from manufacturers outside of our futures ordering program and in advance of customer orders, which we hold in inventory and resell to customers. there is a risk we may be unable to sell excess products ordered from manufacturers. inventory levels in excess of customer demand may result in inventory write-downs, and the sale of excess inventory at discounted prices could significantly impair our brand image and have an adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. conversely, if we underestimate consumer demand for our products or if our manufacturers fail to supply products we require at the time we need them, we may experience inventory shortages. inventory shortages might delay shipments to customers, negatively impact retailer, distributor and consumer relationships and diminish brand loyalty. the difficulty in forecasting demand also makes it difficult to estimate our future results of operations, financial condition and cash flows from period to period. a failure to accurately predict the level of demand for our products could adversely affect our net revenues and net income, and we are unlikely to forecast such effects with any certainty in advance. our nike direct operations have required and will continue to require a substantial investment and commitment of resources and are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties. our nike direct operations, including our retail stores and digital platforms, have required and will continue to require significant investment. our nike direct stores have required and will continue to require substantial fixed investment in equipment and leasehold improvements and personnel. we have entered into substantial operating lease commitments for retail space. certain stores have been designed and built to serve as high-profile venues to promote brand awareness and marketing activities and to integrate with our digital platforms. because of their unique design and technological elements, locations and size, these stores require substantially more investment than other stores. due to the high fixed-cost structure associated with our nike direct retail stores, a decline in sales, a shift in consumer behavior away from brick-and-mortar retail, or the closure, temporary or 2020 form 10-k 12 table of contents otherwise, or poor performance of individual or multiple stores could result in significant lease termination costs, write-offs of equipment and leasehold improvements and employee-related costs. many factors unique to retail operations, some of which are beyond our control, pose risks and uncertainties. risks include, but are not limited to: credit card fraud; mismanagement of existing retail channel partners; and inability to manage costs associated with store construction and operation. in addition, we have made significant investments in digital technologies and information systems for the digital aspect of our nike direct operations, and our digital offerings will require co ntinued investment in the development and upgrading of our technology platforms. in order to deliver high-quality digital experiences, our digital platforms must be designed effectively and work well with a range of other technologies, systems, networks, and standards that we do not control. we may not be successful in developing platforms that operate effectively with these technologies, systems, networks or standards. a growing portion of consumers access our nike direct digital platforms, but in the event that it is more difficult for consumers to access and use our digital platforms, consumers find that our digital platforms do not effectively meet their needs or expectations or consumers choose not to access or use our digital platforms or use devices that do not offer access to our platforms, the success of our nike direct operations could be adversely impacted. our competitors may develop, or have already developed, digital experiences, features, content, services or technologies that are similar to ours or that achieve greater acceptance. we may not realize a satisfactory return on our investment in our nike direct operations and management's attention from our other business opportunities could be diverted, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. if the technology-based systems that give our consumers the ability to shop or interact with us online do not function effectively, our operating results, as well as our ability to grow our digital commerce business globally or to retain our customer base, could be materially adversely affected. many of our consumers shop with us through our digital platforms. increasingly, consumers are using mobile-based devices and applications to shop online with us and with our competitors, and to do comparison shopping, as well as to engage with us and our competitors through digital experiences that are offered on mobile platforms. we are increasingly using social media and proprietary mobile applications to interact with our consumers and as a means to enhance their shopping experience. any failure on our part to provide attractive, effective, reliable, user-friendly digital commerce platforms that offer a wide assortment of merchandise with rapid delivery options and that continually meet the changing expectations of online shoppers or any failure to provide attractive digital experiences to our customers could place us at a competitive disadvantage, result in the loss of digital commerce and other sales, harm our reputation with consumers, have a material adverse impact on the growth of our digital commerce business globally and could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. in addition, as use of our digital platforms continues to grow, we will need an increasing amount of technical infrastructure to continue to satisfy our consumers' needs. if we fail to continue to effectively scale and adapt our digital platforms to accommodate increased consumer demand, our business may be subject to interruptions, delays or failures and consumer demand for our products and digital experiences could decline. risks specific to our digital commerce business also include diversion of sales from our and our retailers' brick and mortar stores, difficulty in recreating the in-store experience through direct channels and liability for online content. our failure to successfully respond to these risks might adversely affect sales in our digital commerce business, as well as damage our reputation and brands. we rely significantly on information technology to operate our business, including our supply chain and retail operations, and any failure, inadequacy or interruption of that technology could harm our ability to effectively operate our business. we are heavily dependent on information technology systems and networks, including the internet and third-party services ( information technology systems ), across our supply chain, including product design, production, forecasting, ordering, manufacturing, transportation, sales and distribution, as well as for processing financial information for external and internal reporting purposes, retail operations and other business activities. information technology systems are critical to many of our operating activities and our business processes and may be negatively impacted by any service interruption or shutdown. for example, our ability to effectively manage and maintain our inventory and to ship products to customers on a timely basis depends significantly on the reliability of these information technology systems. over a number of years, we have implemented information technology systems in all of the geographical regions in which we operate. our work to integrate, secure and enhance these systems and related processes in our global operations is ongoing and nike will continue to invest in these efforts. we cannot provide assurance, however, that the measures we take to secure and enhance these systems will be sufficient to protect our information technology systems and prevent cyber-attacks, system failures or data or information loss. the failure of these systems to operate effectively, including as a result of security breaches, viruses, hackers, malware, natural disasters, vendor business interruptions or other causes, or failure to properly maintain, protect, repair or upgrade systems, or problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems could cause delays in product fulfillment and reduced efficiency of our operations, could require significant capital investments to remediate the problem which may not be sufficient to cover all 2020 form 10-k 13 table of contents eventualities, and may have an adverse effect on our reputation, results of operations and financial condition. further, like other companies in the retail industry, we have in the past experienced, and we expect to continue to experience, cyber-attacks, including phishing, and other attempts to breach, or gain unauthorized access to, our systems. to date, these attacks have not had a material impact on our operations, but we cannot provide assurance that they will not have an impact in the future. we also use information technology systems to process financial information and results of operations for internal reporting purposes and to comply with regulatory financial reporting, legal and tax requirements. if information technology systems suffer severe damage, disruption or shutdown and our business continuity plans, or those of our vendors, do not effectively resolve the issues in a timely manner, we could experience delays in reporting our financial results, which could result in lost revenues and profits, as well as reputational damage. furthermore, we depend on information technology systems and personal data collection for digital marketing, digital commerce, consumer engagement and the marketing and use of our digital products and services. we also rely on our ability to engage in electronic communications throughout the world between and among our employees as well as with other third parties, including customers, suppliers, vendors and consumers. any interruption in information technology systems may impede our ability to engage in the digital space and result in lost revenues, damage to our reputation, and loss of users. we are subject to a complex array of laws and regulations and litigation and other legal and regulatory proceedings, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. as a multinational corporation with operations and distribution channels throughout the world, we are subject to and must comply with extensive laws and regulations in the united states and other jurisdictions in which we have operations and distribution channels. if we or our employees, agents, suppliers, and other partners fail to comply with any of these laws or regulations, such failure could subject us to fines, sanctions or other penalties that could negatively affect our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. we are involved in various types of claims, lawsuits, regulatory proceedings and government investigations relating to our business, our products and the actions of our employees and representatives, including contractual and employment relationships, product liability, antitrust, trademark rights and a variety of other matters. it is not possible to predict with certainty the outcome of any such legal or regulatory proceedings or investigations, and we could in the future incur judgments, fines or penalties, or enter into settlements of lawsuits and claims that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and negatively impact our reputation. the global nature of our business means legal and compliance risks, such as anti-bribery, anti-corruption, fraud, trade, environmental, competition, privacy and other regulatory matters, will continue to exist and additional legal proceedings and other contingencies will arise from time to time, which could adversely affect us. in addition, the adoption of new laws or regulations, or changes in the interpretation of existing laws or regulations, may result in significant unanticipated legal and reputational risks. any current or future legal or regulatory proceedings could divert management's attention from our operations and result in substantial legal fees. changes to u.s. or other countries' trade policies and tariff and import/export regulations or our failure to comply with such regulations may have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. changes in u.s. or international social, political, regulatory and economic conditions could impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. in particular, political and economic instability, geopolitical conflicts, political unrest, civil strife, terrorist activity, acts of war, public corruption, expropriation and other economic or political uncertainties in the united states or internationally could interrupt and negatively affect the sale of our products or other business operations. any negative sentiment toward the united states as a result of any such changes could also adversely affect our business. in addition, changes in laws and policies governing foreign trade, manufacturing, development and investment in the territories or countries where we currently sell our products or conduct our business could adversely affect our business. the u.s. presidential administration has instituted or proposed changes in trade policies that include the negotiation or termination of trade agreements, the imposition of higher tariffs on imports into the u.s., economic sanctions on individuals, corporations or countries, and other government regulations affecting trade between the u.s. and other countries where we conduct our business. it may be time-consuming and expensive for us to alter our business operations in order to adapt to or comply with any such changes. changes or proposed changes in u.s. or other countries' trade policies may result in restrictions and economic disincentives on international trade. tariffs and other changes in u.s. trade policy have in the past and could in the future trigger retaliatory actions by affected countries, and certain foreign governments have instituted or are considering imposing retaliatory measures on certain u.s. goods. further, any emerging protectionist or nationalist trends either in the united states or in other countries could affect the trade environment. the company, similar to many other multinational corporations, does a significant amount of business that would be impacted by changes to the trade policies of the united states and foreign countries (including governmental action related to tariffs, international trade agreements, or economic sanctions). such changes have the potential to adversely impact the u.s. economy or certain sectors thereof or the economy of another country in which we conduct operations, our industry and the global demand for our products, and as a result, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 2020 form 10-k 14 table of contents failure to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights could adversely affect our business. we periodically discover counterfeit reproductions of our products or products that otherwise infringe our intellectual property rights. if we are unsuccessful in enforcing our intellectual property rights, continued sales of these products could adversely affect our sales and our brand and could result in a shift of consumer preference away from our products. the actions we take to establish and protect our intellectual property rights may not be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others. we also may be unable to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as violations of proprietary rights. we may be subject to liability if third parties successfully claim we infringe on their intellectual property rights. defending infringement claims could be expensive and time-consuming and might result in our entering into costly license agreements. we also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development, use, importation and/or sale of certain products. we take various actions to prevent the unauthorized use and/or disclosure of our confidential information and intellectual property rights. these actions include contractual measures such as entering into non-disclosure and non-compete agreements and agreements relating to our collaborations with third parties and providing confidential information awareness training. our controls and efforts to prevent unauthorized use and/or disclosure of confidential information and intellectual property rights might not always be effective. for example, confidential information related to business strategy, innovations, new technologies, mergers and acquisitions, unpublished financial results or personal data could be prematurely, inadvertently, or improperly used and/or disclosed, resulting in a loss of reputation, loss of intellectual property rights, a decline in our stock price and/or a negative impact on our market position, and could lead to damages, fines, penalties or injunctions. in addition, the laws of certain countries may not protect or allow enforcement of intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. we may face significant expenses and liability in connection with the protection of our intellectual property rights, including outside the united states, and if we are unable to successfully protect our rights or resolve intellectual property conflicts with others, our business or financial condition may be adversely affected. we are subject to data security and privacy risks that could negatively affect our results, operations or reputation. in addition to our own sensitive and proprietary business information, we handle transactional and personal information about our wholesale customers and consumers and users of our digital experiences, which include online distribution channels and product engagement, adaptive products and personal fitness applications. hackers and data thieves are increasingly sophisticated and operate social engineering, such as phishing, and large-scale, complex automated attacks that can evade detection for long periods of time. any breach of our or our service providers' network, or other vendor systems, may result in the loss of confidential business and financial data, misappropriation of our consumers', users' or employees' personal information or a disruption of our business. any of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business, including unwanted media attention, impairment of our consumer and customer relationships, damage to our reputation; resulting in lost sales and consumers, fines, lawsuits, or significant legal and remediation expenses. we also may need to expend significant resources to protect against, respond to and/or redress problems caused by any breach. in addition, we must comply with increasingly complex and rigorous, and sometimes conflicting, regulatory standards enacted to protect business and personal data in the united states, europe and elsewhere. for example, the european union adopted the general data protection regulation (the gdpr ), which became effective on may 25, 2018; and california passed the california consumer privacy act (the "ccpa") which became effective on january 1, 2020. these laws impose additional obligations on companies regarding the handling of personal data and provide certain individual privacy rights to persons whose data is stored. compliance with existing, proposed and recently enacted laws (including implementation of the privacy and process enhancements called for under gdpr and ccpa) and regulations can be costly and time consuming, and any failure to comply with these regulatory standards could subject us to legal and reputational risks. misuse of or failure to secure personal information could also result in violation of data privacy laws and regulations, proceedings against the company by governmental entities or others, imposition of fines by governmental authorities and damage to our reputation and credibility and could have a negative impact on revenues and profits. our international operations involve inherent risks which could result in harm to our business. virtually all of our athletic footwear and apparel is manufactured outside of the united states, and the majority of our products are sold outside of the united states. accordingly, we are subject to the risks generally associated with global trade and doing business abroad, which include foreign laws and regulations, varying consumer preferences across geographic regions, political unrest, disruptions or delays in cross-border shipments and changes in economic conditions in countries in which our products are manufactured or where we sell products. this includes, for example, the uncertainty surrounding the effect of brexit, including changes to the legal and regulatory framework that apply to the united kingdom and its relationship with the european union, as well as new and proposed changes affecting tax laws and trade policy in the united states and elsewhere as further described below under we could be subject to changes in tax rates, adoption of new tax laws, additional tax liabilities or increased volatility in our effective tax rate and changes to u.s. or other countries' trade policies and tariff and import/export regulations or our failure to comply with such regulations may have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition and 2020 form 10-k 15 table of contents results of operations. the u.s. presidential administration has indicated a focus on policy reforms that discourage u.s. corporations from outsourcing manufacturing and production activities to foreign jurisdictions, including through tariffs or penalties on goods manufactured outside the united states, which may require us to change the way we conduct business and adversely affect our results of operations. the administration has also targeted the specific practices of certain u.s. multinational corporations in public statements which, if directed at us, could harm our reputation or otherwise negatively impact our business. in addition, disease outbreaks, including the current covid-19 pandemic, terrorist acts and military conflict have increased the risks of doing business abroad. these factors, among others, could affect our ability to manufacture products or procure materials, our ability to import products, our ability to sell products in international markets and our cost of doing business. if any of these or other factors make the conduct of business in a particular country undesirable or impractical, our business could be adversely affected. in addition, many of our imported products are subject to duties, tariffs or quotas that affect the cost and quantity of various types of goods imported into the united states and other countries. any country in which our products are produced or sold may eliminate, adjust or impose new quotas, duties, tariffs, safeguard measures, anti-dumping duties, cargo restrictions to prevent terrorism, restrictions on the transfer of currency, climate change legislation, product safety regulations or other charges or restrictions, any of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. furthermore, we are subject to the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act as well as the anti-corruption laws of other countries in which we operate. although we implement policies and procedures designed to promote compliance with these laws, our employees, contractors and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, may take actions in violation of our policies. any such violation could result in sanctions or other penalties and have an adverse effect on our business, reputation and operating results. our products are subject to risks associated with overseas sourcing, manufacturing and financing. the principal materials used in our apparel products natural and synthetic fabrics and threads, specialized performance fabrics designed to efficiently wick moisture away from the body, retain heat or repel rain and/or snow as well as plastic and metal hardware are available in countries where our manufacturing takes place. the principal materials used in our footwear products natural and synthetic rubber, plastic compounds, foam cushioning materials, natural and synthetic leather, natural and synthetic fabrics and threads, nylon, canvas and polyurethane films are also locally available to manufacturers. both our apparel and footwear products are dependent upon the ability of our unaffiliated contract manufacturers to locate, train, employ and retain adequate personnel. nike contractors and suppliers buy raw materials and are subject to wage rates that are oftentimes regulated by the governments of the countries in which our products are manufactured. there could be a significant disruption in the supply of fabrics or raw materials from current sources or, in the event of a disruption, our contract manufacturers might not be able to locate alternative suppliers of materials of comparable quality at an acceptable price or at all. further, our unaffiliated contract manufacturers have experienced and may continue to experience in the future, unexpected increases in work wages, whether government mandated or otherwise and increases in compliance costs due to governmental regulation concerning certain metals used in the manufacturing of our products. in addition, we cannot be certain that our unaffiliated manufacturers will be able to fill our orders in a timely manner. if we experience significant increases in demand, or reductions in the availability of materials, or need to replace an existing manufacturer, there can be no assurance additional supplies of fabrics or raw materials or additional manufacturing capacity will be available when required on terms acceptable to us, or at all, or that any supplier or manufacturer would allocate sufficient capacity to us in order to meet our requirements. in addition, even if we are able to expand existing or find new manufacturing or sources of materials, we may encounter delays in production and added costs as a result of the time it takes to train suppliers and manufacturers in our methods, products, quality control standards and labor, health and safety standards. any delays, interruption or increased costs in labor or wages, or the supply of materials or manufacture of our products could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet retail customer and consumer demand for our products and result in lower revenues and net income both in the short- and long-term. because independent manufacturers make a majority of our products outside of our principal sales markets, our products must be transported by third parties over large geographic distances. delays in the shipment or delivery of our products due to the availability of transportation, work stoppages, port strikes, infrastructure congestion or other factors, and costs and delays associated with consolidating or transitioning between manufacturers, could adversely impact our financial performance. in addition, manufacturing delays or unexpected demand for our products may require us to use faster, but more expensive, transportation methods such as air freight, which could adversely affect our profit margins. the cost of oil is a significant component in manufacturing and transportation costs, so increases in the price of petroleum products can adversely affect our profit margins. changes in u.s. trade policies, including new and potential changes to import tariffs and existing trade policies and agreements, could also have a significant impact on our activities in foreign jurisdictions, and could adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, sojitz america performs import-export financing services and purchasing services for nike brand products sold in certain countries and any failure of sojitz america to provide these services or any failure of sojitz america's banks could have an 2020 form 10-k 16 table of contents adverse effect on our ability to acquire products from our suppliers and to deliver products to our customers in the countries in which sojitz provides services, which could in turn adversely affect our sales and profitability. we could be subject to changes in tax rates, adoption of new tax laws, additional tax liabilities or increased volatility in our effective tax rate. we are subject to the tax laws in the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. current economic and political conditions make tax laws and regulations, or their interpretation and application, in any jurisdiction subject to significant change. we earn a substantial portion of our income in foreign countries and are subject to the tax laws of those jurisdictions. for example, effective january 1, 2020, the tax law in the netherlands, one of the company's major jurisdictions, changed. other proposals to reform foreign tax laws could significantly impact how u.s. multinational corporations are taxed on foreign earnings. although we cannot predict whether or in what form these proposals will pass, several of the proposals considered, if enacted into law, could have an adverse impact on our income tax expense and cash flows. portions of our operations are subject to a reduced tax rate or are free of tax under various tax holidays and rulings. we also utilize tax rulings and other agreements to obtain certainty in treatment of certain tax matters. these holidays and rulings expire in whole or in part from time to time and may be extended when certain conditions are met, or terminated if certain conditions are not met. the impact of any changes in conditions would be the loss of certainty in treatment thus potentially impacting our effective income tax rate. for example, in january 2019, the european commission opened a formal investigation to examine whether the netherlands has breached state aid rules when granting certain tax rulings to the company. if this matter is adversely resolved, the netherlands may be required to assess additional amounts with respect to current and prior periods and the company's netherlands income taxes in the future could increase. we are also subject to the examination of our tax returns by the united states internal revenue service ( irs ) and other tax authorities. we regularly assess the likelihood of an adverse outcome resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of its provision for income taxes. although we believe our tax provisions are adequate, the final determination of tax audits and any related disputes could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. the results of audits or related disputes could have an adverse effect on our financial statements for the period or periods for which the applicable final determinations are made. for example, we and our subsidiaries are also engaged in a number of intercompany transactions across multiple tax jurisdictions. although we believe we have clearly reflected the economics of these transactions and the proper local transfer pricing documentation is in place, tax authorities may propose and sustain adjustments that could result in changes that may impact our mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates. consolidation of retailers or concentration of retail market share among a few retailers may increase and concentrate our credit risk and impair our ability to sell products. the athletic footwear, apparel and equipment retail markets in some countries are dominated by a few large athletic footwear, apparel and equipment retailers with many stores and accelerating digital commerce capabilities. the market shares of these retailers may increase through acquisitions and construction of additional stores and investments in digital capacity, and as a result of attrition as struggling retailers exit the market. consolidation of our retailers will concentrate our credit risk with a smaller set of retailers, any of whom may experience declining sales or a shortage of liquidity, including as a result of the covid-19 pandemic. in addition, increasing market share concentration among a few retailers in a particular country or region increases the risk that if any one of them substantially reduces their purchases of our products, we may be unable to find sufficient retail outlets for our products to sustain the same level of sales and revenues. we are subject to the risk our licensees may not generate expected sales or maintain the value of our brands. we currently license, and expect to continue licensing, certain of our proprietary rights, such as trademarks or copyrighted material, to third parties. if our licensees fail to successfully market and sell licensed products, or fail to obtain sufficient capital or effectively manage their business operations, customer relationships, labor relationships, supplier relationships or credit risks, it could adversely affect our revenues, both directly from reduced royalties received and indirectly from reduced sales of our other products. we also rely on our licensees to help preserve the value of our brands. although we attempt to protect our brands through approval rights over the design, production processes, quality, packaging, merchandising, distribution, advertising and promotion of our licensed products, we cannot completely control the use of our licensed brands by our licensees. the misuse of a brand by or negative publicity involving a licensee could have a material adverse effect on that brand and on us. failure of our contractors or our licensees' contractors to comply with our code of conduct, local laws and other standards could harm our business. we work with hundreds of contractors outside of the united states to manufacture our products, and we also have license agreements that permit unaffiliated parties to manufacture or contract for the manufacture of products using our intellectual property. we require the contractors that directly manufacture our products and our licensees that make products using our intellectual property (including, indirectly, their contract manufacturers) to comply with a code of conduct and other environmental, 2020 form 10-k 17 table of contents health and safety standards for the benefit of workers. we also require our direct contractors and the contractors of our licensees to comply with applicable standards for product safety. notwithstanding their contractual obligations, from time to time contractors may not comply with such standards or applicable local law or our licensees may fail to enforce such standards or applicable local law on their contractors. if one or more of our direct or indirect contractors violates or fails to comply with or is accused of violating or failing to comply with such standards and laws, this could harm our reputation or result in a product recall and, as a result, could have an adverse effect on our sales and financial condition. negative publicity regarding production methods, alleged unethical or illegal practices or workplace or related conditions of any of our suppliers, manufacturers or licensees could adversely affect our brand image and sales, force us to locate alternative suppliers, manufacturers or licenses or result in the imposition of additional regulations, including new or additional quotas, tariffs, product safety regulations or other regulatory measures, by governmental authorities. if one or more of our counterparty financial institutions default on their obligations to us or fail, we may incur significant losses. as part of our hedging activities, we enter into transactions involving derivative financial instruments, which may include forward contracts, commodity futures contracts, option contracts, collars and swaps with various financial institutions. in addition, we have significant amounts of cash, cash equivalents and other investments on deposit or in accounts with banks or other financial institutions in the united states and abroad. as a result, we are exposed to the risk of default by or failure of counterparty financial institutions. the risk of counterparty default or failure may be heightened during economic downturns and periods of uncertainty in the financial markets. if one of our counterparties were to become insolvent or file for bankruptcy, our ability to recover losses incurred as a result of default, or our assets deposited or held in accounts with such counterparty, may be limited by the counterparty's liquidity or the applicable laws governing the insolvency or bankruptcy proceedings. in the event of default or failure of one or more of our counterparties, we could incur significant losses, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. we rely on a concentrated source base of contract manufacturers to supply a significant portion of our footwear products. nike is supplied by 122 footwear factories located in 12 countries. we do not own or operate any of the footwear manufacturing facilities and depend upon independent contract manufacturers to manufacture all of the footwear products we sell. in fiscal 2020 , four footwear contract manufacturers each accounted for greater than 10% of fiscal 2020 footwear production and in aggregate accounted for approximately 61% of nike brand footwear production in fiscal 2020 . our ability to meet our customers' needs depends on our ability to maintain a steady supply of products from our independent contract manufacturers. if one or more of our significant suppliers were to sever their relationship with us or significantly alter the terms of our relationship, including due to changes in applicable trade policies, or be unable to perform, including as a result of the covid-19 pandemic, we may not be able to obtain replacement products in a timely manner, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales, financial condition or results of operations. additionally, if any of our primary contract manufacturers fail to make timely shipments, do not meet our quality standards or otherwise fail to deliver us product in accordance with our plans, there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations. certain of our manufacturers are highly specialized and only produce a specific type of product. such manufacturing partners may go out of business if consumer preferences or market conditions change such that there is no longer sufficient demand for the types of products they produce. if, in the future, the relevant products are again in demand and the specialized manufacturers no longer exist, we may not be able to locate replacement facilities to manufacture certain products in a timely manner or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales, financial condition or results of operations. our success depends on our global distribution facilities. we distribute our products to customers directly from the factory and through distribution centers located throughout the world. our ability to meet customer expectations, manage inventory, complete sales and achieve objectives for operating efficiencies and growth, particularly in emerging markets, depends on the proper operation of our distribution facilities, the development or expansion of additional distribution capabilities and the timely performance of services by third parties (including those involved in shipping product to and from our distribution facilities). our distribution facilities have in the past and could be interrupted by information technology problems, disasters such as earthquakes or fires or outbreaks of disease or government actions taken to mitigate their spread. any significant failure in our distribution facilities could result in an adverse effect on our business. we maintain business interruption insurance, but it may not adequately protect us from adverse effects caused by significant disruptions in our distribution facilities. the market for prime real estate is competitive. our ability to effectively obtain real estate to open new retail stores and otherwise conduct our operations, both domestically and internationally, depends on the availability of real estate that meets our criteria for traffic, square footage, co-tenancies, lease economics, demographics and other factors. we also must be able to effectively renew our existing real estate leases. in addition, from time to time, we seek to downsize, consolidate, reposition or close some of our real estate locations, which may require modification of an existing lease. failure to secure adequate new locations or successfully modify leases for existing 2020 form 10-k 18 table of contents locations, or failure to effectively manage the profitability of our existing fleet of retail stores, could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. additionally, the economic environment may make it difficult to determine the fair market rent of real estate properties domestically and internationally. this could impact the quality of our decisions to exercise lease options at previously negotiated rents and to renew expiring leases at negotiated rents. any adverse effect on the quality of these decisions could impact our ability to retain real estate locations adequate to meet our targets or efficiently manage the profitability of our existing fleet of stores, which could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. extreme weather conditions and natural disasters could negatively impact our operating results and financial condition. extreme weather conditions in the areas in which our retail stores, suppliers, manufacturers, customers, distribution centers, headquarters and vendors are located could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. moreover, natural disasters such as earthquakes, hurricanes and tsunamis, whether occurring in the united states or abroad, and their related consequences and effects, including energy shortages and public health issues, have in the past temporarily disrupted, and could in the future disrupt, our operations, the operations of our vendors, manufacturers and other suppliers or have in the past and could result in economic instability that may negatively impact our operating results and financial condition. in particular, if a natural disaster were to occur in an area in which we or our suppliers, manufacturers, customers, distribution centers and vendors are located, our continued success would depend, in part, on the safety and availability of the relevant personnel and facilities and proper functioning of our or third parties' computer, telecommunication and other systems and operations. in addition, a severe weather event could negatively impact retail traffic to our stores or stores that carry our products and could have an adverse impact on consumer spending, any of which could in turn result in negative point-of-sale trends for our merchandise. further, climate change may increase both the frequency and severity of extreme weather conditions and natural disasters, which may affect our business operations, either in a particular region or globally, as well as the activities of our third-party vendors and other suppliers, manufacturers and customers. in addition, the physical changes prompted by climate change could result in changes in regulations or consumer preferences, which could in turn affect our business, operating results and financial condition. we believe the diversity of locations in which we operate, our operational size and our information technology systems position us well, but if we were to experience a local or regional disaster or other business continuity event, we could still experience operational challenges, in particular depending upon how a local or regional event may affect our human capital across our operations or with regard to particular aspects of our operations, such as key executive officers or personnel. further, if we are unable to find alternative suppliers, replace capacity at key manufacturing or distribution locations or quickly repair damage to our information technology systems or supply systems, we could be late in delivering, or be unable to deliver, products to our customers. these events could result in reputational damage, lost sales, cancellation charges or markdowns, all of which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. our financial results may be adversely affected if substantial investments in businesses and operations fail to produce expected returns. from time to time, we may invest in technology, business infrastructure, new businesses, product offering and manufacturing innovation and expansion of existing businesses, such as our nike direct operations, which require substantial cash investments and management attention. we believe cost-effective investments are essential to business growth and profitability; however, significant investments are subject to typical risks and uncertainties inherent in developing a new business or expanding an existing business. the failure of any significant investment to provide expected returns or profitability could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and divert management attention from more profitable business operations. see also our nike direct operations have required and will continue to require a substantial investment and commitment of resources and are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties . the success of our business depends, in part, on high-quality employees, including key personnel as well as our ability to maintain our workplace culture and values. our success depends in part on the continued service of high-quality employees, including key executive officers and personnel. the loss of the services of key individuals, or any negative perception with respect to these individuals, or our workplace culture or values, could harm our business. our success also depends on our ability to recruit, retain and engage our personnel sufficiently, both to maintain our current business and to execute our strategic initiatives. competition for employees in our industry is intense and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. in addition, shifts in u.s. immigration policy could negatively impact our ability to attract, hire and retain highly skilled employees who are from outside the united states. w e also believe that our corporate culture has been a key driver of our success, and we have invested substantial time and resources in building, maintaining and evolving our culture. any failure to preserve and evolve our culture could negatively affect our future success, including our ability to retain and recruit employees. 2020 form 10-k 19 table of contents our business operations and financial performance could be adversely affected by changes in our relationship with our workforce or changes to united states or foreign employment regulations. we have significant exposure to changes in domestic and foreign laws governing our relationships with our workforce, including wage and hour laws and regulations, fair labor standards, minimum wage requirements, overtime pay, unemployment tax rates, workers' compensation rates, citizenship requirements and payroll taxes, which could have a direct impact on our operating costs. a significant increase in minimum wage or overtime rates in countries where we have workforces could have a significant impact on our operating costs and may require that we relocate those operations or take other steps to mitigate such increases, all of which may cause us to incur additional costs. there is also a risk of potential claims that we have violated laws related to discrimination and harassment, health and safety, wage and hour laws, criminal activity, personal injury and other claims. in addition, if there were a significant increase in the number of members of our workforce who are members of labor organizations or become parties to collective bargaining agreements, we could be vulnerable to a strike, work stoppage or other labor action, which could have an adverse effect on our business. the sale of a large number of shares of common stock by our principal stockholder could depress the market price of our common stock. as of june 30, 2020, swoosh, llc beneficially owned approximately 75% of our class a common stock. if, on june 30, 2020, all of these shares were converted into class b common stock, the commensurate ownership percentage of our class b common stock would be approximately 16%. the shares are available for resale, subject to the requirements of the u.s. securities laws and the terms of the limited liability company agreement governing swoosh, llc. the sale or prospect of a sale of a substantial number of these shares could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. swoosh, llc was formed by philip h. knight, our chairman emeritus, to hold the majority of his shares of class a common stock. swoosh, llc is controlled by mr. knight's son and nike director, travis knight. changes in our credit ratings or macroeconomic conditions may affect our liquidity, increasing borrowing costs and limiting our financing options. our long-term debt is currently rated investment grade by standard &amp; poor's and moody's investors service. if our credit ratings are lowered, borrowing costs for our existing facilities or for future long-term debt or short-term credit facilities may increase and our financing options, including our access to the unsecured credit market or the capital markets, could be adversely affected. we may also be subject to restrictive covenants that would reduce our flexibility to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, make restricted payments, pledge assets as security, make investments, loans, advances, guarantees and acquisitions, undergo fundamental changes and enter into transactions with affiliates. failure to comply with such covenants could result in a default, and as a result, the commitments of our lenders under our credit agreements may be terminated and the maturity of amounts owed may be accelerated. in addition, macroeconomic conditions, such as increased volatility or disruption in the credit markets, could adversely affect our ability to refinance existing debt. if our internal controls are ineffective, our operating results could be adversely affected. our internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls or fraud. even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in their implementation, our business and operating results could be harmed and we could fail to meet our financial reporting obligations. if our estimates or judgments relating to our critical accounting policies prove to be incorrect, our operating results could be adversely affected. the preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. we base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, as provided in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. the results of these estimates form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets, liabilities and equity, and the amount of revenues and expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources. significant assumptions and estimates used in preparing our consolidated financial statements include those related to revenue recognition, inventory reserves, contingent payments under endorsement contracts, accounting for property, plant and equipment and definite-lived assets, hedge accounting for derivatives, stock-based compensation, income taxes and other contingencies. our operating results may be adversely affected if our assumptions change or if actual circumstances differ from those in our assumptions, which could cause our operating results to fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in the price of our class b common stock. 2020 form 10-k 20 table of contents anti-takeover provisions may impair an acquisition of the company or reduce the price of our common stock. there are provisions within our articles of incorporation and oregon law intended to protect shareholder interests by providing the board of directors a means to attempt to deny coercive takeover attempts or to negotiate with a potential acquirer in order to obtain more favorable terms. such provisions include a control share acquisition statute, a freeze-out statute, two classes of stock that vote separately on certain issues, and the fact that holders of class a common stock elect three-quarters of the board of directors rounded down to the next whole number. however, such provisions could discourage, delay or prevent an unsolicited merger, acquisition or other change in control of our company that some shareholders might believe to be in their best interests or in which shareholders might receive a premium for their common stock over the prevailing market price. these provisions could also discourage proxy contests for control of the company. we may fail to meet market expectations, which could cause the price of our stock to decline. our class b common stock is traded publicly, and at any given time various securities analysts follow our financial results and issue reports on us. these reports include information about our historical financial results as well as analysts' opinions of our future performance, which may, in part, be based upon any guidance we have provided. analysts' estimates are often different from our estimates or expectations. if our operating results are below the estimates or expectations of public market analysts and investors, our stock price could decline. in the past, securities class action litigation has been brought against nike and other companies following a decline in the market price of their securities. if our stock price is volatile for any reason, we may become involved in this type of litigation in the future. any litigation could result in reputational damage, substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources needed to successfully run our business. 2020 form 10-k 21 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 50 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in the normal course of business and consistent with established policies and procedures, we employ a variety of financial instruments to manage exposure to fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies and interest rates. it is our policy to utilize these financial instruments only where necessary to finance our business and manage such exposures; we do not enter into these transactions for trading or speculative purposes. we are exposed to foreign currency fluctuations, primarily as a result of our international sales, product sourcing and funding activities. our foreign exchange risk management program is intended to lessen both the positive and negative effects of currency fluctuations on our consolidated results of operations, financial position and cash flows. we use forward and option contracts to hedge certain anticipated, but not yet firmly committed, transactions as well as certain firm commitments and the related receivables and payables, including third-party and intercompany transactions. we have, in the past, and may in the future, also use forward or options contracts to hedge our investment in the net assets of certain international subsidiaries to offset foreign currency translation adjustments related to our net investment in those subsidiaries. where exposures are hedged, our program has the effect of delaying the impact of exchange rate movements on our consolidated financial statements. the timing for hedging exposures, as well as the type and duration of the hedge instruments employed, are guided by our hedging policies and determined based upon the nature of the exposure and prevailing market conditions. typically, the company may enter into hedge contracts starting up to 12 to 24 months in advance of the forecasted transaction and may place incremental hedges up to 100% of the exposure by the time the forecasted transaction occurs. the majority of derivatives outstanding as of may 31, 2020 are designated as foreign currency cash flow hedges, primarily for euro/u.s. dollar, british pound/euro, japanese yen/u.s. dollar and chinese yuan/u.s. dollar currency pairs. refer to note 14 risk management and derivatives in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. our earnings are also exposed to movements in short- and long-term market interest rates. our objective in managing this interest rate exposure is to limit the impact of interest rate changes on earnings and cash flows and to reduce overall borrowing costs. to achieve these objectives, we maintain a mix of commercial paper, bank loans, and fixed-rate debt of varying maturities. market risk measurement we monitor foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk and related derivatives using a variety of techniques including a review of market value, sensitivity analysis and value-at-risk ( var ). our market-sensitive derivative and other financial instruments are foreign currency forward contracts, foreign currency option contracts, intercompany loans denominated in non-functional currencies, fixed interest rate u.s. dollar denominated debt and fixed interest rate japanese yen denominated debt. we use var to monitor the foreign exchange risk of our foreign currency forward and foreign currency option derivative instruments only. the var determines the maximum potential one-day loss in the fair value of these foreign exchange rate-sensitive financial instruments. the var model estimates assume normal market conditions and a 95% confidence level. there are various modeling techniques that can be used in the var computation. our computations are based on interrelationships between currencies and interest rates (a variance/co-variance technique). these interrelationships are a function of foreign exchange currency market changes and interest rate changes over the preceding one-year period. the value of foreign currency options does not change on a one-to-one basis with changes in the underlying currency rate. we adjust the potential loss in option value for the estimated sensitivity (the delta and gamma ) to changes in the underlying currency rate. this calculation reflects the impact of foreign currency rate fluctuations on the derivative instruments only and does not include the impact of such rate fluctuations on non-functional currency transactions (such as anticipated transactions, firm commitments, cash balances and accounts and loans receivable and payable), including those which are hedged by these instruments. the var model is a risk analysis tool and does not purport to represent actual losses in fair value we will incur nor does it consider the potential effect of favorable changes in market rates. it also does not represent the full extent of the possible loss that may occur. actual future gains and losses will differ from those estimated because of changes or differences in market rates and interrelationships, hedging instruments and hedge percentages, timing and other factors. the estimated maximum one-day loss in fair value on our foreign currency sensitive derivative financial instruments, derived using the var model, was $48 million and $34 million at may 31, 2020 and 2019 , respectively. the var increased year-over-year as a result of an increase in foreign currency volatilities at may 31, 2020 . such a hypothetical loss in the fair value of our derivatives would be offset by increases in the value of the underlying transactions being hedged. the average monthly change in the fair values of foreign currency forward and foreign currency option derivative instruments was $126 million and $83 million during fiscal 2020 and fiscal 2019 , respectively. 2020 form 10-k 50 table of contents the instruments not included in the var are intercompany loans denominated in non-functional currencies, fixed interest rate japanese yen denominated debt, and fixed interest rate u.s. dollar denominated debt. intercompany loans and related interest amounts are eliminated in consolidation. furthermore, our non-functional currency intercompany loans are substantially hedged against foreign exchange risk through the use of forward contracts, which are included in the var calculation above. therefore, we consider the interest rate and foreign currency market risks associated with our non-functional currency intercompany loans to be immaterial to our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. details of third-party debt are provided in the table below. the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates. expected maturity date year ending may 31, (dollars in millions) 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 thereafter total fair value foreign exchange risk japanese yen functional currency long-term japanese yen debt fixed rate principal payments $ 3 $ $ $ $ $ $ 3 $ 3 average interest rate 2.4 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 2.4 % interest rate risk japanese yen functional currency long-term japanese yen debt fixed rate principal payments $ 3 $ $ $ $ $ $ 3 $ 3 average interest rate 2.4 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 2.4 % u.s. dollar functional currency long-term u.s. dollar debt fixed rate principal payments $ $ $ 500 $ $ 1,000 $ 8,000 $ 9,500 $ 10,642 average interest rate 0.0 % 0.0 % 2.3 % 0.0 % 2.4 % 3.1 % 3.0 % the fixed interest rate japanese yen denominated debt instruments were issued by and are accounted for by one of our japanese subsidiaries. accordingly, the monthly translation of these instruments, which varies due to changes in foreign exchange rates, is recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) upon consolidation of this subsidiary. 2020 form 10-k 51 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 25 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk " --> item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in the normal course of business and consistent with established policies and procedures, we employ a variety of financial instruments to manage exposure to fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies and interest rates. it is our policy to utilize these financial instruments only where necessary to finance our business and manage such exposures; we do not enter into these transactions for speculative purposes. we are exposed to foreign currency fluctuation as a result of our international sales, production and funding activities. our foreign currency risk management objective is to reduce the variability of local entity cash flows as a result of exchange rate movements. we use forward exchange contracts and options to hedge certain anticipated but not yet firmly committed transactions as well as certain firm commitments and the related receivables and payables, including third party or intercompany transactions. when we begin hedging exposures depends on the nature of the exposure and market conditions. generally, all anticipated and firmly committed transactions that are hedged are to be recognized within twelve months, although at may 31, 2002 we had forward contracts hedging anticipated transactions that will be recognized in as many as 24 months. the majority of the contracts expiring in more than twelve months relate to the anticipated purchase of inventory by our japanese subsidiary. we use forward contracts and cross-currency swaps to hedge foreign currency denominated payments under intercompany loan agreements. when intercompany loans are hedged, it is typically for their expected duration, which in some circumstances may be in excess of five years. hedged transactions are principally denominated in european currencies, japanese yen, canadian dollars, korean won, mexican pesos, australian dollars and new taiwan dollars. our earnings are also exposed to movements in short and long-term market interest rates. our objective in managing this interest rate exposure is to limit the impact of interest rate changes on earnings and cash flows, and to reduce overall borrowing costs. to achieve these objectives, we maintain a mix of medium and long-term fixed rate debt, commercial paper, and bank loans and have entered into interest rate swaps under which we receive fixed interest and pay variable interest. market risk measurement we monitor foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk and related derivatives using a variety of techniques including a review of market value, sensitivity analysis, and value-at-risk (var). our market-sensitive derivative and other financial instruments, as defined by the sec, are foreign currency forward contracts, foreign currency option contracts, cross-currency swaps, interest rate swaps, intercompany loans denominated in foreign currencies, fixed interest rate u.s. dollar denominated debt, and fixed interest rate japanese yen denominated debt. 25 table of contents we use var to monitor the foreign exchange risk of our foreign currency forward and foreign currency option derivative instruments only. the var determines the maximum potential one-day loss in the fair value of these foreign exchange rate-sensitive financial instruments. the var model estimates assume normal market conditions and a 95% confidence level. there are various modeling techniques that can be used in the var computation. our computations are based on interrelationships between currencies and interest rates (a variance/ co-variance technique). these interrelationships are a function of foreign exchange currency market changes and interest rate changes over the preceding one year. the value of foreign currency options does not change on a one-to-one basis with changes in the underlying currency rate. we adjusted the potential loss in option value for the estimated sensitivity (the delta and gamma ) to changes in the underlying currency rate. this calculation reflects the impact of foreign currency rate fluctuations on the derivative instruments only, and hence does not include the impact of such rate fluctuations on the underlying based transactions that are anticipated transactions, firm commitments, cash balances and accounts and loans receivable and payable denominated in foreign currencies from the var calculation, including those which are hedged by these instruments. the var model is a risk analysis tool and does not purport to represent actual losses in fair value that we will incur, nor does it consider the potential effect of favorable changes in market rates. it also does not represent the full extent of the possible loss that may occur. actual future gains and losses will differ from those estimated because of changes or differences in market rates and interrelationships, hedging instruments and hedge percentages, timing and other factors. the estimated maximum one-day loss in fair value on our foreign currency sensitive financial instruments, derived using the var model, was $13.7 million and $18.9 million at may 31, 2002 and may 31, 2001, respectively. the reduction in var as of may 31, 2002 occurred due to the effect of currency volatility on existing trades on the may 31, 2002 var computation versus the effect of currency volatility on existing trades on the may 31, 2001 var computation. such a hypothetical loss in fair value of our derivatives would be offset by increases in the value of the underlying transactions being hedged. the average monthly change in the fair values of foreign currency forward and foreign currency option derivative instruments was $42.9 million and $22.4 million for fiscal 2002 and fiscal 2001, respectively. details of other market-sensitive financial instruments and derivative financial instruments not included in the var calculation above, are provided in the table below except the interest rate swaps which are described in the last paragraph of this section. these instruments include intercompany loans denominated in foreign currencies, fixed interest rate japanese yen denominated debt, fixed interest rate u.s. dollar denominated debt, cross-currency swaps, and interest rate swaps. for debt obligations, the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates. we have excluded the cross-currency swaps from the foreign exchange risk category because these instruments eliminate all foreign currency exposure in the cash flows of a euro denominated intercompany loan. we have included these cross-currency swaps in the interest rate risk category but excluded the related intercompany loan from this category because the intercompany interest eliminates in consolidation. for the cross-currency swaps the table presents both the euro swap payable and u.s. dollar swap receivable and the respective pay and receive interest rates. all information is presented in u.s. dollar equivalents, in millions, except interest rates. intercompany loans and related interest amounts eliminate in consolidation. intercompany loans are generally hedged against foreign exchange risk through the use of forward contracts and swaps with third parties. the fixed interest rate japanese yen denominated debts were issued by and are accounted for by two of our japanese subsidiaries. accordingly, the monthly remeasurement of these instruments due to changes in foreign exchange rates is recognized in accumulated other comprehensive loss upon the consolidation of these subsidiaries. there was not a significant change in debt or cross-currency swap market risks during fiscal 2002. the u.s. dollar fair values of intercompany loans denominated in foreign currencies was $647.2 million at may 31, 2001, which is the same as the carrying values of the loans prior to their elimination. the u.s. dollar fair value of the fixed rate japanese yen denominated debt that was outstanding at may 31, 2001 was $181.1 million 26 table of contents versus a carrying value of $191.0 million at that date. the u.s. dollar fair values of the fixed rate u.s. dollar denominated debt, the euro swap payable and the u.s. dollar swap receivable as of may 31, 2001 were $256.2 million, $179.4 million and $266.4 million, respectively, versus carrying values of $249.6 million, $172.6 million and $250.0 million, respectively, at that date. in august 2001, we issued a $250 million corporate bond maturing in august 2006, with a fixed interest rate of 5.5%. in november 2001, we entered into receive-fixed pay-variable interest rate swap agreements to hedge the interest rate exposure related to this bond. the interest rate swaps have an aggregate notional amount of $250 million maturing in august 2006. the receive-fixed rates on the swaps match the fixed rate on the bond, and the pay-variable rates are based on the three-month libor rates plus a spread. as a result of the interest rate swap agreements, our effective interest rate on the $250 million corporate bond was 3.3% as of may 31, 2002. the difference between the carrying amounts and fair value of the corporate bond and related interest rate swaps was $1.8 million at may 31, 2002. expected maturity date year ended may 31, 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 thereafter total fair value (in millions, except interest rates) foreign exchange risk euro functional currency intercompany loan u.s. dollar denominated fixed rate principal payments $ 131.4 $ 131.4 $ 131.4 average interest rate 2.2 % 2.2 % u.s. dollar functional currency intercompany loans euro denominated fixed rate principal payments $ 135.1 147.4 $ 282.5 $ 282.5 average interest rate 5.5 % 5.6 % 5.6 % intercompany loan japanese yen denominated fixed rate principal payments $ 161.3 $ 161.3 $ 161.3 average interest rate 0.4 % 0.4 % intercompany loan canadian dollar denominated fixed rate principal payments $ 29.3 $ 29.3 $ 29.3 average interest rate 2.6 % 2.6 % argentine peso functional currency intercompany loan u.s. dollar denominated fixed rate principal payments $ 44.9 $ 44.9 $ 44.9 average interest rate 2.3 % 2.3 % japanese yen functional currency long-term japanese yen debt-fixed rate principal payments $ 5.3 5.3 5.3 5.3 5.3 $ 154.9 $ 181.4 $ 207.4 average interest rate 3.3 % 3.3 % 3.3 % 3.4 % 3.4 % 3.7 % 3.6 % 27 table of contents expected maturity date year ended may 31, 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 thereafter total fair value (in millions, except interest rates) interest rate risk japanese yen functional currency long-term japanese yen debt-fixed rate principal payments $ 5.3 5.3 5.3 5.3 5.3 $ 154.9 $ 181.4 $ 207.4 average interest rate 3.3 % 3.3 % 3.3 % 3.4 % 3.4 % 3.7 % 3.6 % u.s. dollar functional currency long-term u.s. dollar debt-fixed rate principal payments $ 50.0 199.8 250.0 $ 499.8 $ 516.5 average interest rate 5.9 % 5.8 % 5.5 % 5.5 % 5.5 % 5.7 % fixed euro for fixed u.s. dollar cross-currency swap euro swap payable $ 41.4 147.4 $ 188.8 $ 196.2 u.s. dollar swap receivable $ 50.0 200.0 $ 250.0 $ 267.9 average pay rate (euro) 5.6 % 5.6 % 5.6 % average receive rate (u.s. dollars) 6.5 % 6.5 % 6.5 % special note regarding forward-looking statements and analyst reports certain written and oral statements, other than purely historical information, including estimates, projections, statements relating to nike business plans, objectives and expected operating results, and the assumptions upon which those statements are based, made or incorporated by reference from time to time by nike or its representatives in this report, other reports, filings with the securities and exchange commission, press releases, conferences, or otherwise, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934. forward-looking statements include, without limitation, any statement that may predict, forecast, indicate, or imply future results, performance, or achievements, and may contain the words believe, anticipate, expect, estimate, project, will be, will continue, will likely result, or words or phrases of similar meaning. forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties which may cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. the risks and uncertainties are detailed from time to time in reports filed by nike with the sec, including forms 8-k, 10-q, and 10-k, and include, among others, the following: international, national and local general economic and market conditions; the size and growth of the overall athletic footwear, apparel, and equipment markets; intense competition among designers, marketers, distributors and sellers of athletic footwear, apparel, and equipment for consumers and endorsers; demographic changes; changes in consumer preferences; popularity of particular designs, categories of products, and sports; seasonal and geographic demand for nike products; difficulties in anticipating or forecasting changes in consumer preferences, consumer demand for nike products, and the various market factors described above; difficulties in implementing, operating, and maintaining nike increasingly complex information systems and controls, including, without limitation, the systems related to demand and supply planning, and inventory control; interruptions in data and communications systems; fluctuations and difficulty in forecasting operating results, including, without limitation, the fact that advance futures orders may not be indicative of future revenues due to the changing mix of futures and at-once orders; the ability of nike to sustain, manage or forecast its growth and inventories; the size, timing and mix of purchases of nike products; new product development and introduction; the ability to secure and protect trademarks, patents, and other intellectual property; performance and reliability of products; customer service; adverse publicity; the loss of significant customers or suppliers; dependence on distributors; business disruptions; increased costs of freight and transportation to meet delivery deadlines; increases in borrowing costs due to any decline in our debt ratings; changes in business strategy or development plans; general risks associated with doing business outside the united states, including without limitation, import duties, tariffs, quotas and political and economic instability; changes in government regulations; liability and other claims asserted against nike; the ability to 28 table of contents attract and retain qualified personnel; and other factors referenced or incorporated by reference in this report and other reports. the risks included here are not exhaustive. other sections of this report may include additional factors which could adversely affect nike business and financial performance. moreover, nike operates in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. new risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors, nor can it assess the impact of all such risk factors on nike business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. investors should also be aware that while nike does, from time to time, communicate with securities analysts, it is against nike policy to disclose to them any material non-public information or other confidential commercial information. accordingly, shareholders should not assume that nike agrees with any statement or report issued by any analyst irrespective of the content of the statement or report. furthermore, nike has a policy against issuing or confirming financial forecasts or projections issued by others. thus, to the extent that reports issued by securities analysts contain any projections, forecasts or opinions, such reports are not the responsibility of nike.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 29 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in the normal course of business and consistent with established policies and procedures, we employ a variety of financial instruments to manage exposure to fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies and interest rates. it is our policy to utilize these financial instruments only where necessary to finance our business and manage such exposures; we do not enter into these transactions for speculative purposes. we are exposed to foreign currency fluctuation as a result of our international sales, product sourcing and funding activities. our foreign currency risk management objective is to reduce the variability of local entity cash flows as a result of exchange rate movements. we use forward exchange contracts and options to hedge 29 table of contents certain anticipated but not yet firmly committed transactions as well as certain firm commitments and the related receivables and payables, including third party or intercompany transactions. when we begin hedging exposures depends on the nature of the exposure and market conditions. generally, all anticipated and firmly committed transactions that are hedged are to be recognized within twelve months, although at may 31, 2005 we had forward contracts hedging anticipated transactions that will be recognized in as many as 24 months. the majority of the contracts expiring in more than twelve months relate to the anticipated purchase of inventory by our european and japanese subsidiaries. we use forward contracts to hedge non-functional currency denominated payments under intercompany loan agreements. when intercompany loans are hedged, it is typically for their expected duration. hedged transactions are principally denominated in euros, japanese yen, canadian dollars, korean won, australian dollars, and mexican pesos. our earnings are also exposed to movements in short and long-term market interest rates. our objective in managing this interest rate exposure is to limit the impact of interest rate changes on earnings and cash flows, and to reduce overall borrowing costs. to achieve these objectives, we maintain a mix of medium and long-term fixed rate debt, commercial paper, and bank loans and have entered into interest rate swaps. market risk measurement we monitor foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk and related derivatives using a variety of techniques including a review of market value, sensitivity analysis, and value-at-risk (var). our market-sensitive derivative and other financial instruments, as defined by the sec, are foreign currency forward contracts, foreign currency option contracts, interest rate swaps, intercompany loans denominated in non-functional currencies, fixed interest rate u.s. dollar denominated debt, and fixed interest rate japanese yen denominated debt. we use var to monitor the foreign exchange risk of our foreign currency forward and foreign currency option derivative instruments only. the var determines the maximum potential one-day loss in the fair value of these foreign exchange rate-sensitive financial instruments. the var model estimates assume normal market conditions and a 95% confidence level. there are various modeling techniques that can be used in the var computation. our computations are based on interrelationships between currencies and interest rates (a variance/ co-variance technique). these interrelationships are a function of foreign exchange currency market changes and interest rate changes over the preceding one year. the value of foreign currency options does not change on a one-to-one basis with changes in the underlying currency rate. we adjusted the potential loss in option value for the estimated sensitivity (the delta and gamma ) to changes in the underlying currency rate. this calculation reflects the impact of foreign currency rate fluctuations on the derivative instruments only, and does not include the impact of such rate fluctuations on non-functional currency transactions (such as anticipated transactions, firm commitments, cash balances, and accounts and loans receivable and payable), including those which are hedged by these instruments. the var model is a risk analysis tool and does not purport to represent actual losses in fair value that we will incur, nor does it consider the potential effect of favorable changes in market rates. it also does not represent the full extent of the possible loss that may occur. actual future gains and losses will differ from those estimated because of changes or differences in market rates and interrelationships, hedging instruments and hedge percentages, timing and other factors. the estimated maximum one-day loss in fair value on our foreign currency sensitive financial instruments, derived using the var model, was $25.7 and $24.9 million at may 31, 2005 and may 31, 2004, respectively. the increase in var as of may 31, 2005 occurred due to a larger portfolio of foreign currency derivative instruments which was largely offset by the effect of lower currency volatility on existing trades on the may 31, 2005 var computation versus the may 31, 2004 var computation. such a hypothetical loss in fair value of our derivatives would be offset by increases in the value of the underlying transactions being hedged. the average monthly change in the fair values of foreign currency forward and foreign currency option derivative instruments was $37.2 million and $50.0 million for fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004, respectively. 30 table of contents details of other market-sensitive financial instruments and derivative financial instruments not included in the var calculation above are provided in the table below, except the interest rate swaps which are described below. these instruments include intercompany loans denominated in non-functional currencies, fixed interest rate japanese yen denominated debt, fixed interest rate u.s. dollar denominated debt and interest rate swaps. for debt obligations, the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates. expected maturity date year ended may 31, 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 thereafter total fair value (in millions, except interest rates) foreign exchange risk euro functional currency intercompany loan u.s. dollar denominated fixed rate principal payments $ 270.4 $ 270.4 $ 270.4 average interest rate 4.1 % 4.1 % intercompany loan british pound denominated fixed rate principal payments $ 67.8 $ 67.8 $ 67.8 average interest rate 5.0 % 5.0 % u.s. dollar functional currency intercompany loan japanese yen denominated variable rate principal payments $ 202.7 $ 202.7 $ 202.7 average interest rate 0.4 % 0.4 % intercompany loan canadian dollar denominated fixed rate principal payments $ 41.2 $ 41.2 $ 41.2 average interest rate 2.9 % 2.9 % korean won functional currency intercompany loan u.s. dollar denominated fixed rate principal payments $ 40.8 $ 40.8 $ 40.8 average interest rate 3.3 % 3.3 % japanese yen functional currency long-term japanese yen debt fixed rate principal payments $ 6.2 6.2 6.2 6.2 6.2 161.9 192.9 $ 218.1 average interest rate 3.4 % 3.4 % 3.4 % 3.5 % 3.5 % 2.6 % 2.9 % interest rate risk japanese yen functional currency long-term japanese yen debt fixed rate principal payments $ 6.2 6.2 6.2 6.2 6.2 161.9 192.9 $ 218.1 average interest rate 3.4 % 3.4 % 3.4 % 3.5 % 3.5 % 2.6 % 2.9 % u.s. dollar functional currency long-term u.s. dollar debt fixed rate principal payments $ 250.0 25.0 25.0 190.0 $ 490.0 $ 502.9 average interest rate 5.3 % 5.2 % 5.1 % 5.1 % 5.1 % 5.1 % 5.1 % 31 table of contents intercompany loans and related interest amounts eliminate in consolidation. intercompany loans are generally hedged against foreign exchange risk through the use of forward contracts with third parties, as discussed above. the fixed interest rate japanese yen denominated debts were issued by and are accounted for by two of our japanese subsidiaries. accordingly, the monthly remeasurement of these instruments due to changes in foreign exchange rates is recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income upon the consolidation of these subsidiaries. there were no significant changes in debt market risks during fiscal 2005. we did not issue any long-term fixed-rate corporate bonds during fiscal 2005; however, during fiscal 2002, 2003 and fiscal 2004 we issued a total of $490 million in long-term fixed-rate corporate bonds that mature between august 2006 and october 2015. fixed interest rates on these bonds range from 4.7% to 5.66%. for each of the bonds issued in fiscal 2002, 2003 and fiscal 2004, we have entered into interest rate swap agreements whereby we receive fixed interest payments at the same rate as the bonds and pay variable interest payments based on the three-month or six-month libor plus a spread. as a result of the interest rate swap agreements the average effective interest rate payable on these bonds was 4.17% at may 31, 2005 and 2.4% at may 31, 2004. each swap has the same notional amount and maturity date as the corresponding bond, except for one swap for a $50 million bond issued in fiscal 2004. the $50 million bond issued in fiscal 2004 matures in october 2013 whereas the associated interest rate swap expires in october 2006. these interest rate swaps are accounted for as fair value hedges, so changes in the recorded fair values of the swaps are offset by changes in the recorded fair value of the related debt, except for the $50 million swap expiring in october 2006 which is not accounted for as a hedge. accordingly, changes in the fair value of this swap are recorded to net income each period. the recorded fair value of the interest rate swaps accounted for as fair value hedges was a net $9.0 million gain at may 31, 2005 and a $3.3 million gain at may 31, 2004. the recorded fair value of the $50 million interest rate swap expiring october 2006 was not material for the years ended may 31, 2005 and 2004. in fiscal 2003 we also entered into an interest rate swap agreement related to a japanese yen denominated intercompany loan with one of our japanese subsidiaries. the japanese subsidiary pays variable interest on the intercompany loan based on 3-month libor plus a spread. under the interest rate swap agreement, the subsidiary pays fixed interest payments at 0.8% and receives variable interest payments based on 3-month libor plus a spread based on a notional amount of 8 billion japanese yen. this interest rate swap is not accounted for as a hedge, accordingly changes in the fair value of the swap are recorded to net income each period. the recorded fair value of the swap was not material for the years ended may 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003. special note regarding forward-looking statements and analyst reports certain written and oral statements, other than purely historical information, including estimates, projections, statements relating to nike business plans, objectives and expected operating results, and the assumptions upon which those statements are based, made or incorporated by reference from time to time by nike or its representatives in this report, other reports, filings with the securities and exchange commission, press releases, conferences, or otherwise, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934. forward-looking statements include, without limitation, any statement that may predict, forecast, indicate, or imply future results, performance, or achievements, and may contain the words believe, anticipate, expect, estimate, project, will be, will continue, will likely result, or words or phrases of similar meaning. forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties which may cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. the risks and uncertainties are detailed from time to time in reports filed by nike with the sec, including forms 8-k, 10-q, and 10-k, and include, among others, the following: international, national and local general economic and market conditions; the size and growth of the overall athletic footwear, apparel, and equipment markets; intense competition among designers, marketers, distributors and sellers of athletic footwear, apparel, and equipment for consumers and endorsers; demographic changes; changes in consumer preferences; popularity of particular designs, categories of products, and sports; seasonal and geographic demand for nike products; difficulties in anticipating or forecasting changes in 32 table of contents consumer preferences, consumer demand for nike products, and the various market factors described above; difficulties in implementing, operating, and maintaining nike increasingly complex information systems and controls, including, without limitation, the systems related to demand and supply planning, and inventory control; interruptions in data and communications systems; fluctuations and difficulty in forecasting operating results, including, without limitation, the fact that advance futures orders may not be indicative of future revenues due to the changing mix of futures and at-once orders, currency exchange rate fluctuations, order cancellations, and the fact that a significant portion of our revenue is not derived from futures orders; the ability of nike to sustain, manage or forecast its growth and inventories; the size, timing and mix of purchases of nike products; new product development and introduction; the ability to secure and protect trademarks, patents, and other intellectual property; performance and reliability of products; customer service; adverse publicity; the loss of significant customers or suppliers; dependence on distributors; business disruptions; increased costs of freight and transportation to meet delivery deadlines; increases in borrowing costs due to any decline in our debt ratings; changes in business strategy or development plans; general risks associated with doing business outside the united states, including without limitation, import duties, tariffs, quotas, political and economic instability, and terrorism; changes in government regulations; liability and other claims asserted against nike; the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel; and other factors referenced or incorporated by reference in this report and other reports. the risks included here are not exhaustive. other sections of this report may include additional factors which could adversely affect nike business and financial performance. moreover, nike operates in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. new risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors, nor can it assess the impact of all such risk factors on nike business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market 18 risk........................................................ quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in the normal course of business and consistent with established policies and procedures, we employ a variety of financial instruments to manage exposure to fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies and interest rates. it is our policy to utilize these financial instruments only where necessary to finance our business and manage such exposures; we do not enter into these transactions for speculative purposes. we are exposed to foreign currency fluctuation as a result of our international sales, production and funding activities. our foreign currency risk management objective is to protect cash flows from the adverse impact of exchange rate movements. we use forward exchange contracts and purchased options to hedge certain firm commitments and the related receivables and payables, including third party or intercompany transactions, and use purchased currency options to hedge certain anticipated but not yet firmly committed 18 21 transactions. when we begin hedging exposures depends on the nature of the exposure and market conditions. generally, all firmly committed and anticipated transactions that are hedged are to be recognized within twelve months. in addition, we use cross-currency swaps to hedge foreign currency denominated payments under intercompany loan agreements. hedged transactions are principally denominated in european currencies, japanese yen, australian dollars, canadian dollars, and korean won. our financial performance is also exposed to movements in short and long-term market interest rates. our objective in managing this interest rate exposure is to limit the impact of interest rate changes on earnings and cash flows, and to reduce overall borrowing costs. to achieve these objectives, we maintain a mix of medium and long-term fixed rate debt, commercial paper, bank loans and trade financing from niac. market risk measurement we monitor foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk and related derivatives using a variety of techniques including a review of market value, sensitivity analysis, and value-at-risk (var). our market-sensitive derivative and other financial instruments, as defined by the sec, are foreign currency forward contracts, foreign currency option contracts, cross-currency swaps, intercompany loans denominated in foreign currencies, fixed interest rate u.s. dollar denominated debt and fixed interest rate japanese yen denominated debt. we use var to monitor the foreign exchange risk of our foreign currency forward and foreign currency option derivative instruments only. the var determines the maximum potential one-day loss in the fair value of these foreign exchange rate-sensitive financial instruments. the var model estimates assume normal market conditions and a 95% confidence level. there are various modeling techniques that can be used in the var computation. our computations are based on interrelationships between currencies and interest rates (a "variance/co-variance" technique). we determined these interrelationships by observing foreign exchange currency market changes and interest rate changes over the preceding one year. the value of foreign currency options does not change on a one-to-one basis with changes in the underlying currency rate. we adjusted the potential loss in option value for the estimated sensitivity (the "delta" and "gamma") to changes in the underlying currency rate. we have excluded anticipated transactions, firm commitments, cash balances and accounts receivable and payable denominated in foreign currencies from the var calculation, which certain of these instruments are intended to hedge. the var model is a risk analysis tool and does not purport to represent actual losses in fair value that we will incur, nor does it consider the potential effect of favorable changes in market rates. it also does not represent the full extent of the possible loss that may occur. actual future gains and losses will differ from those estimated because of changes or differences in market rates and interrelationships, hedging instruments and hedge percentages, timing and other factors. the estimated maximum one-day loss in fair value on nike's foreign currency sensitive financial instruments, derived using the var model, was $18.9 million and $9.5 million at may 31, 2001 and may 31, 2000, respectively. such a hypothetical loss in fair value of our derivatives would be offset by increases in the value of the underlying transactions being hedged. details of all other market-sensitive derivative and other financial instruments, including their fair values, are included in the table below. these instruments include intercompany loans denominated in foreign currencies, fixed interest rate japanese yen denominated debt, fixed interest rate u.s. dollar denominated debt, and cross-currency swaps. for debt obligations, the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates. we have excluded the cross-currency swaps from the foreign exchange risk category because these instruments eliminate all foreign currency exposure in the cash flows of a dutch guilder denominated inter-company loan. we have included these cross-currency swaps in the interest rate risk category but excluded the related intercompany loan from this category because the intercompany interest eliminates in consolidation. for the cross-currency swaps the table presents both the dutch guilder swap payable and u.s. dollar swap receivable and the respective pay and receive interest rates. all information is presented in u.s. dollar equivalents, in millions, except interest rates. 19 22 expected maturity date year ended may 31, 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 thereafter total fair value ------ ---- ---- ----- ---- ---------- ------ ---------- foreign exchange risk euro functional currency intercompany loan -- u.s. dollar denominated -- fixed rate principal payments................. $133.7 -- -- -- -- -- $133.7 $133.7 average interest rate.............. 7.4% -- -- -- -- -- 7.4% u.s. dollar functional currency intercompany loans -- euro denominated -- fixed rate principal payments................. $257.3 -- -- -- -- -- $257.3 $257.3 average interest rate.............. 5.0% -- -- -- -- -- 5.0% intercompany loan -- japanese yen denominated -- fixed rate principal payments................. $213.0 -- -- -- -- -- $213.0 $213.0 average interest rate.............. 0% -- -- -- -- -- 0% intercompany loan -- british pound denominated -- fixed rate principal payments................. $ 20.6 -- -- -- -- -- $ 20.6 $ 20.6 average interest rate.............. 6.5% -- -- -- -- -- 6.5% korean won functional currency intercompany loan -- u.s. dollar denominated -- fixed rate principal payments................. $ 22.6 -- -- -- -- -- $ 22.6 $ 22.6 average interest rate.............. 6.9% -- -- -- -- -- 6.9% japanese yen functional currency long-term japanese yen debt-fixed rate principal payments................. $ 5.4 5.4 5.4 5.4 5.4 $164.0 $191.0 $181.1 average interest rate.............. 3.3% 3.3% 3.3% 3.4% 3.4% 3.4% 3.3% interest rate risk japanese yen functional currency long-term japanese yen debt-fixed rate principal payments................. $ 5.4 5.4 5.4 5.4 5.4 $164.0 $191.0 $181.1 average interest rate.............. 3.3% 3.3% 3.3% 3.4% 3.4% 3.4% 3.3% u.s. dollar functional currency long-term u.s. dollar debt-fixed rate principal payments................. $ -- 50.0 199.6 -- -- -- $249.6 $256.2 average interest rate.............. 6.4% 6.4% 6.4% -- -- -- 6.4% cross-currency swaps- fixed dutch guilder for fixed u.s. dollar dutch guilder swap payable......... $ -- 37.8 134.8 -- -- -- $172.6 $179.4 u.s. dollar swap receivable........ $ -- 50.0 200.0 -- -- -- $250.0 $266.4 average pay rate (dutch guilder)... 5.5% 5.6% 5.6% -- -- -- 5.6% average receive rate (u.s. dollars)......................... 6.5% 6.5% 6.5% -- -- -- 6.5% intercompany loans and related interest amounts eliminate in consolidation. intercompany loans are generally hedged against foreign exchange risk through the use of forward contracts and swaps with third parties. 20 23 the fixed interest rate japanese yen denominated debts were issued by and are accounted for by two of nike's japanese subsidiaries. accordingly, the monthly remeasurement of these instruments due to changes in foreign exchange rates is recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income upon the consolidation of these subsidiaries. there was not a significant change in debt or cross-currency swap market risks during fiscal 2001. the u.s. dollar fair values of intercompany loans denominated in foreign currencies was $692.8 million at may 31, 2000, which is the same as the carrying values of the loans prior to their elimination. the u.s. dollar fair value of the fixed rate japanese yen denominated debt that was outstanding at may 31, 2000 was $220.4 million versus a carrying value of $219.8 million at that date. the u.s. dollar fair values of the fixed rate u.s. dollar denominated debt, the dutch guilder swap payable and the u.s. dollar swap receivable as of may 31, 2000 were $288.4 million, $226.6 million and $288.8 million, respectively, versus carrying values of $299.6 million, $227.6 million and $300 million, respectively, at that date. special note regarding forward-looking statements and analyst reports. certain written and oral statements, other than purely historical information including estimates, projections, statements relating to nike's business plans, objectives and expected operating results, and the assumptions upon which those statements are based, made or incorporated by reference from time to time by nike or its representatives in this report, other reports, filings with the securities and exchange commission, press releases, conferences, or otherwise, are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934. forward-looking statements include, without limitation, any statement that may predict, forecast, indicate, or imply future results, performance, or achievements, and may contain the words "believe," "anticipate," "expect," "estimate," "project," "will be," "will continue," "will likely result," or words or phrases of similar meaning. forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties which may cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. the risks and uncertainties are detailed from time to time in reports filed by nike with the s.e.c., including forms 8-k, 10-q, and 10-k, and include, among others, the following: international, national and local general economic and market conditions; the size and growth of the overall athletic footwear, apparel, and equipment markets; intense competition among designers, marketers, distributors and sellers of athletic footwear, apparel, and equipment for consumers and endorsers; demographic changes; changes in consumer preferences; popularity of particular designs, categories of products, and sports; seasonal and geographic demand for nike products; difficulties in anticipating or forecasting changes in consumer preferences, consumer demand for nike products, and the various market factors described above; difficulties in implementing, operating, and maintaining nike's increasingly complex information systems and controls, including, without limitation, the systems related to demand and supply planning, and inventory control; fluctuations and difficulty in forecasting operating results, including, without limitation, the fact that advance "futures" orders may not be indicative of future revenues due to the changing mix of futures and at-once orders; the ability of nike to sustain, manage or forecast its growth and inventories; the size, timing and mix of purchases of nike's products; new product development and introduction; the ability to secure and protect trademarks, patents, and other intellectual property performance and reliability of products; customer service; adverse publicity; the loss of significant customers or suppliers; dependence on distributors; business disruptions; increased costs of freight and transportation to meet delivery deadlines; changes in business strategy or development plans; general risks associated with doing business outside the united states, including, without limitation, import duties, tariffs, quotas and political and economic instability; changes in government regulations; liability and other claims asserted against nike; the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel; and other factors referenced or incorporated by reference in this report and other reports. the risks included here are not exhaustive. other sections of this report may include additional factors which could adversely affect nike's business and financial performance. moreover, nike operates in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. new risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors, nor can it assess the impact of all such risk factors on nike's business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ 21 24 materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. investors should also be aware that while nike does, from time to time, communicate with securities analysts, it is against nike's policy to disclose to them any material non-public information or other confidential commercial information. accordingly, shareholders should not assume that nike agrees with any statement or report issued by any analyst irrespective of the content of the statement or report. furthermore, nike has a policy against issuing or confirming financial forecasts or projections issued by others. thus, to the extent that reports issued by securities analysts contain any projections, forecasts or opinions, such reports are not the responsibility of nike.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 30 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in the normal course of business and consistent with established policies and procedures, we employ a variety of financial instruments to manage exposure to fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies and interest rates. it is our policy to utilize these financial instruments only where necessary to finance our business and manage such exposures; we do not enter into these transactions for speculative purposes. we are exposed to foreign currency fluctuation as a result of our international sales, production and funding activities. our foreign currency risk management objective is to reduce the variability of local entity cash flows as a result of exchange rate movements. we use forward exchange contracts and options to hedge certain anticipated but not yet firmly committed transactions as well as certain firm commitments and the related receivables and payables, including third party or intercompany transactions. when we begin hedging exposures depends on the nature of the exposure and market conditions. generally, all anticipated and firmly committed transactions that are hedged are to be recognized within twelve months, although at may 31, 2003 we had forward contracts hedging anticipated transactions that will be recognized in as many as 18 months. the majority of the contracts expiring in more than twelve months relate to the anticipated purchase of inventory by our european and japanese subsidiaries. we use forward contracts and cross-currency swaps to hedge foreign currency denominated payments under intercompany loan agreements. when intercompany loans are hedged, it is typically for their expected duration. hedged transactions are principally denominated in european currencies, japanese yen, canadian dollars, korean won, mexican pesos and australian dollars. our earnings are also exposed to movements in short and long-term market interest rates. our objective in managing this interest rate exposure is to limit the impact of interest rate changes on earnings and cash flows, and to reduce overall borrowing costs. to achieve these objectives, we maintain a mix of medium and long-term fixed rate debt, commercial paper, and bank loans and have entered into interest rate swaps under which we receive fixed interest and pay variable interest. market risk measurement we monitor foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk and related derivatives using a variety of techniques including a review of market value, sensitivity analysis, and value-at-risk (var). our market-sensitive derivative and other financial instruments, as defined by the sec, are foreign currency forward contracts, foreign currency option contracts, cross-currency swaps, interest rate swaps, intercompany loans denominated in foreign currencies, fixed interest rate u.s. dollar denominated debt, and fixed interest rate japanese yen denominated debt. 30 table of contents we use var to monitor the foreign exchange risk of our foreign currency forward and foreign currency option derivative instruments only. the var determines the maximum potential one-day loss in the fair value of these foreign exchange rate-sensitive financial instruments. the var model estimates assume normal market conditions and a 95% confidence level. there are various modeling techniques that can be used in the var computation. our computations are based on interrelationships between currencies and interest rates (a variance/co-variance technique). these interrelationships are a function of foreign exchange currency market changes and interest rate changes over the preceding one year. the value of foreign currency options does not change on a one-to-one basis with changes in the underlying currency rate. we adjusted the potential loss in option value for the estimated sensitivity (the delta and gamma ) to changes in the underlying currency rate. this calculation reflects the impact of foreign currency rate fluctuations on the derivative instruments only, and hence does not include the impact of such rate fluctuations on the underlying based transactions that are anticipated transactions, firm commitments, cash balances and accounts and loans receivable and payable denominated in foreign currencies from the var calculation, including those which are hedged by these instruments. the var model is a risk analysis tool and does not purport to represent actual losses in fair value that we will incur, nor does it consider the potential effect of favorable changes in market rates. it also does not represent the full extent of the possible loss that may occur. actual future gains and losses will differ from those estimated because of changes or differences in market rates and interrelationships, hedging instruments and hedge percentages, timing and other factors. the estimated maximum one-day loss in fair value on our foreign currency sensitive financial instruments, derived using the var model, was $21.0 million and $13.7 million at may 31, 2003 and may 31, 2002, respectively. the increase in var as of may 31, 2003 occurred due to the effect of currency volatility on existing trades on the may 31, 2003 var computation versus the effect of currency volatility on existing trades on the may 31, 2002 var computation. such a hypothetical loss in fair value of our derivatives would be offset by increases in the value of the underlying transactions being hedged. the average monthly change in the fair values of foreign currency forward and foreign currency option derivative instruments was $43.3 million and $42.9 million for fiscal 2003 and fiscal 2002, respectively. details of other market-sensitive financial instruments and derivative financial instruments not included in the var calculation above are provided in the table below, except the interest rate swaps which are described below. these instruments include intercompany loans denominated in foreign currencies, fixed interest rate japanese yen denominated debt, fixed interest rate u.s. dollar denominated debt, cross-currency swaps, and interest rate swaps. for debt obligations, the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates. we have excluded the cross-currency swaps from the foreign exchange risk category because these instruments eliminate all foreign currency exposure in the cash flows of a euro denominated intercompany loan. we have included these cross-currency swaps in the interest rate risk category but excluded the related intercompany loan from this category because the intercompany interest eliminates in consolidation. for the cross-currency swaps the table presents both the euro swap payable and u.s. dollar swap receivable and the respective pay and receive interest rates. all information is presented in millions of u.s. dollars, except interest rates. intercompany loans and related interest amounts eliminate in consolidation. intercompany loans are generally hedged against foreign exchange risk through the use of forward contracts and swaps with third parties. the fixed interest rate japanese yen denominated debts were issued by and are accounted for by two of our japanese subsidiaries. accordingly, the monthly remeasurement of these instruments due to changes in foreign exchange rates is recognized in accumulated other comprehensive loss upon the consolidation of these subsidiaries. there were no significant changes in debt or cross-currency swap market risks during fiscal 2003. the u.s. dollar fair values of intercompany loans denominated in foreign currencies was $649.4 million at may 31, 2002, which is the same as the carrying values of the loans prior to their elimination. the u.s. dollar fair value of the fixed rate japanese yen denominated debt that was outstanding at may 31, 2002 was $207.4 million versus a carrying value of $181.4 million at that date. the u.s. dollar fair values of the fixed rate u.s. dollar denominated debt, the euro swap payable and the u.s. dollar swap receivable as of may 31, 2002 were $516.5 million, $196.2 million and $267.9 million, respectively, versus carrying values of $499.8 million, $188.8 million and $250.0 million, respectively, at that date. 31 table of contents in fiscal 2002 we issued a $250 million long-term fixed-rate corporate bond which matures in august 2006. in fiscal 2003, we issued an additional $90 million in long-term fixed-rate corporate bonds which mature on various dates beginning in july 2007 through august 2012. fixed interest rates on these bonds range from 4.8% to 5.66%. for each of these bonds issued in fiscal 2002 and fiscal 2003, we have entered into interest rate swap agreements whereby we receive fixed interest payments at the same rate as the bonds and pay variable interest payments based on the three-month or six-month libor plus a spread. each swap has the same notional amount and maturity date as the corresponding bond. as a result of the interest rate swap agreements, the average effective interest rate payable on these bonds was 2.5% at may 31, 2003 and 3.3% at may 31, 2002. these interest rate swaps are accounted for as fair value hedges, so changes in the recorded fair values of the swaps are offset by changes in the recorded fair value of the related debt. the recorded fair value of the interest rate swaps was a $25.5 million gain at may 31, 2003 and a $1.8 million loss at may 31, 2002. in fiscal 2003 we also entered into an interest rate swap agreement related to a japanese yen denominated intercompany loan with one of our japanese subsidiaries. the japanese subsidiary pays variable interest on the intercompany loan based on 3-month libor plus a spread. under the interest rate swap agreement, the subsidiary pays fixed interest payments at 0.8% and receives variable interest payments based on 3-month libor plus a spread based on a notional amount of 8 billion japanese yen. this interest rate swap is not accounted for as a hedge, accordingly changes in the fair value of the swap are recorded to net income. as of may 31, 2003, the recorded fair value of the swap was a $1.0 million loss. expected maturity date year ended may 31, 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 thereafter total fair value (in millions, except interest rates) foreign exchange risk euro functional currency intercompany loan u.s. dollar denominated fixed rate principal payments $ 270.4 $ 270.4 $ 270.4 average interest rate 2.7 % 2.7 % intercompany loan british pound denominated fixed rate principal payments $ 30.0 $ 30.0 $ 30.0 average interest rate 3.4 % 3.4 % u.s. dollar functional currency intercompany loans euro denominated fixed rate principal payments $ 186.0 $ 186.0 $ 186.0 average interest rate 5.6 % 5.6 % intercompany loan japanese yen denominated variable rate principal payments $ 189.1 $ 189.1 $ 189.1 average interest rate 0.4 % 0.4 % intercompany loan canadian dollar denominated fixed rate principal payments $ 36.3 $ 36.3 $ 36.3 average interest rate 3.5 % 3.5 % japanese yen functional currency long-term japanese yen debt fixed rate principal payments $ 5.7 5.7 5.7 5.7 5.7 161.6 $ 190.1 $ 234.5 average interest rate 3.3 % 3.3 % 3.4 % 3.4 % 3.4 % 2.9 % 3.0 % interest rate risk japanese yen functional currency long-term japanese yen debt fixed rate principal payments $ 5.7 5.7 5.7 5.7 5.7 161.6 $ 190.1 $ 234.5 average interest rate 3.3 % 3.3 % 3.4 % 3.4 % 3.4 % 2.9 % 3.0 % u.s. dollar functional currency long-term u.s. dollar debt fixed rate principal payments $ 200.0 250.0 25.0 65.0 $ 540.0 $ 582.2 average interest rate 5.7 % 5.4 % 5.4 % 5.4 % 5.5 % 5.5 % 5.5 % fixed euro for fixed u.s. dollar cross-currency swap euro swap payable $ 186.0 $ 186.0 $ 193.5 u.s. dollar swap receivable $ 200.0 $ 200.0 $ 211.6 average pay rate (euro) 5.6 % 5.6 % average receive rate (u.s. dollars) 6.5 % 6.5 % 32 table of contents special note regarding forward-looking statements and analyst reports certain written and oral statements, other than purely historical information, including estimates, projections, statements relating to nike business plans, objectives and expected operating results, and the assumptions upon which those statements are based, made or incorporated by reference from time to time by nike or its representatives in this report, other reports, filings with the securities and exchange commission, press releases, conferences, or otherwise, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934. forward-looking statements include, without limitation, any statement that may predict, forecast, indicate, or imply future results, performance, or achievements, and may contain the words believe, anticipate, expect, estimate, project, will be, will continue, will likely result, or words or phrases of similar meaning. forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties which may cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. the risks and uncertainties are detailed from time to time in reports filed by nike with the sec, including forms 8-k, 10-q, and 10-k, and include, among others, the following: international, national and local general economic and market conditions; the size and growth of the overall athletic footwear, apparel, and equipment markets; intense competition among designers, marketers, distributors and sellers of athletic footwear, apparel, and equipment for consumers and endorsers; demographic changes; changes in consumer preferences; popularity of particular designs, categories of products, and sports; seasonal and geographic demand for nike products; difficulties in anticipating or forecasting changes in consumer preferences, consumer demand for nike products, and the various market factors described above; difficulties in implementing, operating, and maintaining nike increasingly complex information systems and controls, including, without limitation, the systems related to demand and supply planning, and inventory control; interruptions in data and communications systems; fluctuations and difficulty in forecasting operating results, including, without limitation, the fact that advance futures orders may not be indicative of future revenues due to the changing mix of futures and at-once orders; the ability of nike to sustain, manage or forecast its growth and inventories; the size, timing and mix of purchases of nike products; new product development and introduction; the ability to secure and protect trademarks, patents, and other intellectual property; performance and reliability of products; customer service; adverse publicity; the loss of significant customers or suppliers; dependence on distributors; business disruptions; increased costs of freight and transportation to meet delivery deadlines; increases in borrowing costs due to any decline in our debt ratings; changes in business strategy or development plans; general risks associated with doing business outside the united states, including without limitation, import duties, tariffs, quotas and political and economic instability; changes in government regulations; liability and other claims asserted against nike; the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel; and other factors referenced or incorporated by reference in this report and other reports. the risks included here are not exhaustive. other sections of this report may include additional factors which could adversely affect nike business and financial performance. moreover, nike operates in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. new risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors, nor can it assess the impact of all such risk factors on nike business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. investors should also be aware that while nike does, from time to time, communicate with securities analysts, it is against nike policy to disclose to them any material non-public information or other confidential commercial information. accordingly, shareholders should not assume that nike agrees with any statement or report issued by any analyst irrespective of the content of the statement or report. furthermore, nike has a policy against issuing or confirming financial forecasts or projections issued by others. thus, to the extent that reports issued by securities analysts contain any projections, forecasts or opinions, such reports are not the responsibility of nike.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 29 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in the normal course of business and consistent with established policies and procedures, we employ a variety of financial instruments to manage exposure to fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies and interest rates. it is our policy to utilize these financial instruments only where necessary to finance our business and manage such exposures; we do not enter into these transactions for speculative purposes. we are exposed to foreign currency fluctuation as a result of our international sales, product sourcing and funding activities. our foreign currency risk management objective is to reduce the variability of local entity cash flows as a result of exchange rate movements. we use forward exchange contracts, options and cross-currency swaps to hedge certain anticipated but not yet firmly committed transactions as well as certain firm commitments and the related receivables and payables, including third party or intercompany transactions. when we begin hedging exposures depends on the nature of the exposure and market conditions. generally, all anticipated and firmly committed transactions that are hedged are to be recognized within twelve months, although at may 31, 2004 we had forward contracts hedging anticipated transactions that will be recognized in as many as 18 months. the majority of the contracts expiring in more than twelve months relate to the anticipated purchase of inventory by our european and japanese subsidiaries. we use forward contracts and cross-currency swaps to hedge foreign currency denominated payments under intercompany loan agreements. when intercompany loans are hedged, it is typically for their expected duration. hedged transactions are principally denominated in european currencies, japanese yen, canadian dollars, korean won, mexican pesos and australian dollars. our earnings are also exposed to movements in short and long-term market interest rates. our objective in managing this interest rate exposure is to limit the impact of interest rate changes on earnings and cash flows, and to reduce overall borrowing costs. to achieve these objectives, we maintain a mix of medium and long-term fixed rate debt, commercial paper, and bank loans and have entered into interest rate swaps under which we receive fixed interest and pay variable interest. market risk measurement we monitor foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk and related derivatives using a variety of techniques including a review of market value, sensitivity analysis, and value-at-risk (var). our market-sensitive derivative and other financial instruments, as defined by the sec, are foreign currency forward contracts, foreign currency option contracts, cross-currency swaps, interest rate swaps, intercompany loans denominated in foreign currencies, fixed interest rate u.s. dollar denominated debt, and fixed interest rate japanese yen denominated debt. we use var to monitor the foreign exchange risk of our foreign currency forward and foreign currency option derivative instruments only. the var determines the maximum potential one-day loss in the fair value of these foreign exchange rate-sensitive financial instruments. the var model estimates assume normal market conditions and a 95% confidence level. there are various modeling techniques that can be used in the var 29 table of contents computation. our computations are based on interrelationships between currencies and interest rates (a variance/co-variance technique). these interrelationships are a function of foreign exchange currency market changes and interest rate changes over the preceding one year. the value of foreign currency options does not change on a one-to-one basis with changes in the underlying currency rate. we adjusted the potential loss in option value for the estimated sensitivity (the delta and gamma ) to changes in the underlying currency rate. this calculation reflects the impact of foreign currency rate fluctuations on the derivative instruments only, and hence does not include the impact of such rate fluctuations on the underlying based transactions that are anticipated transactions, firm commitments, cash balances and accounts and loans receivable and payable denominated in foreign currencies, including those which are hedged by these instruments. the var model is a risk analysis tool and does not purport to represent actual losses in fair value that we will incur, nor does it consider the potential effect of favorable changes in market rates. it also does not represent the full extent of the possible loss that may occur. actual future gains and losses will differ from those estimated because of changes or differences in market rates and interrelationships, hedging instruments and hedge percentages, timing and other factors. the estimated maximum one-day loss in fair value on our foreign currency sensitive financial instruments, derived using the var model, was $24.9 million and $21.0 million at may 31, 2004 and may 31, 2003, respectively. the increase in var as of may 31, 2004 occurred due to the effect of currency volatility on existing trades on the may 31, 2004 var computation versus the effect of currency volatility on existing trades on the may 31, 2003 var computation. such a hypothetical loss in fair value of our derivatives would be offset by increases in the value of the underlying transactions being hedged. the average monthly change in the fair values of foreign currency forward and foreign currency option derivative instruments was $50.0 million and $43.3 million for fiscal 2004 and fiscal 2003, respectively. details of other market-sensitive financial instruments and derivative financial instruments not included in the var calculation above are provided in the table below, except the interest rate swaps which are described below. these instruments include intercompany loans denominated in foreign currencies, fixed interest rate japanese yen denominated debt, fixed interest rate u.s. dollar denominated debt, cross-currency swaps and interest rate swaps. for debt obligations, the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates. expected maturity date year ended may 31, 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 thereafter total fair value (in millions, except interest rates) foreign exchange risk euro functional currency intercompany loan u.s. dollar denominated fixed rate principal payments $ 270.4 $ 270.4 $ 270.4 average interest rate 2.4 % 2.4 % intercompany loan british pound denominated fixed rate principal payments $ 68.8 $ 68.8 $ 68.8 average interest rate 4.8 % 4.8 % u.s. dollar functional currency intercompany loan japanese yen denominated variable rate principal payments $ 207.7 $ 207.7 $ 207.7 average interest rate 0.3 % 0.3 % intercompany loan canadian dollar denominated fixed rate principal payments $ 25.8 $ 25.8 $ 25.8 average interest rate 2.3 % 2.3 % japanese yen functional currency long-term japanese yen debt fixed rate 30 table of contents expected maturity date year ended may 31, 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 thereafter total fair value (in millions, except interest rates) principal payments $ 5.9 5.9 5.9 5.9 5.9 161.3 $ 190.8 $ 215.4 average interest rate 3.3 % 3.4 % 3.4 % 3.4 % 3.5 % 2.5 % 2.9 % interest rate risk japanese yen functional currency long-term japanese yen debt fixed rate principal payments $ 5.9 5.9 5.9 5.9 5.9 161.3 $ 190.8 $ 215.4 average interest rate 3.3 % 3.4 % 3.4 % 3.4 % 3.5 % 2.5 % 2.9 % u.s. dollar functional currency long-term u.s. dollar debt fixed rate principal payments $ 250.0 25.0 215.0 $ 490.0 $ 502.6 average interest rate 5.3 % 5.3 % 5.2 % 5.1 % 5.1 % 5.1 % 5.2 % intercompany loans and related interest amounts eliminate in consolidation. intercompany loans are generally hedged against foreign exchange risk through the use of forward contracts and swaps with third parties. the fixed interest rate japanese yen denominated debts were issued by and are accounted for by two of our japanese subsidiaries. accordingly, the monthly remeasurement of these instruments due to changes in foreign exchange rates is recognized in accumulated other comprehensive loss upon the consolidation of these subsidiaries. there were no significant changes in debt or cross-currency swap market risks during fiscal 2004. cross-currency swaps outstanding as of may 31, 2003 matured in fiscal 2004 and no new cross-currency swaps were executed during fiscal 2004. the u.s. dollar fair values of intercompany loans denominated in foreign currencies was $711.8 million at may 31, 2003, which is the same as the carrying values of the loans prior to their elimination. the u.s. dollar fair value of the fixed rate japanese yen denominated debt that was outstanding at may 31, 2003 was $234.5 million versus a carrying value of $190.1 million at that date. the u.s. dollar fair values of the fixed rate u.s. dollar denominated debt, the euro swap payable and the u.s. dollar swap receivable as of may 31, 2003 were $582.2 million, $193.5 million and $211.6 million, respectively, versus carrying values of $540.0 million, $186.0 million and $200.0 million, respectively, at that date. in fiscal 2002 we issued a $250 million long-term fixed-rate corporate bond which matures in august 2006. in fiscal 2003 and 2004, we issued an additional $240 million in long-term fixed-rate corporate bonds which mature on various dates beginning in july 2007 through october 2015. fixed interest rates on these bonds range from 4.7% to 5.66%. for each of the bonds issued in fiscal 2002, 2003 and fiscal 2004, we have entered into interest rate swap agreements whereby we receive fixed interest payments at the same rate as the bonds and pay variable interest payments based on the three-month or six-month libor plus a spread. each swap has the same notional amount and maturity date as the corresponding bond, except for one swap for a $50 million bond issued in fiscal 2004 maturing in october 2013. that swap expires in october 2006. as a result of the interest rate swap agreements, the average effective interest rate payable on these bonds was 2.4% at may 31, 2004 and 2.5% at may 31, 2003. these interest rate swaps are accounted for as fair value hedges, so changes in the recorded fair values of the swaps are offset by changes in the recorded fair value of the related debt, except for the $50 million swap expiring in october 2006 which is not accounted for as a hedge. accordingly, changes in the fair value of this swap are recorded to net income each period. the recorded fair value of the interest rate swaps accounted for as fair value hedges was a net $3.3 million gain at may 31, 2004 and a $25.5 million gain at may 31, 2003. the fair value of the $50 million interest rate swap expiring october 2006 was a $0.6 million loss at may 31, 2004. in fiscal 2003 we also entered into an interest rate swap agreement related to a japanese yen denominated intercompany loan with one of our japanese subsidiaries. the japanese subsidiary pays variable interest on the intercompany loan based on 3-month libor plus a spread. under the interest rate swap agreement, the subsidiary pays fixed interest payments at 0.8% and receives variable interest payments based on 3-month libor plus a spread based on a notional amount of 8 billion japanese yen. this interest rate swap is not accounted for as a hedge, accordingly changes in the fair value of the swap are recorded to net income each period. the recorded fair value of the swap was a $0.4 million gain at may 31, 2004 and a $1.0 million loss at may 31, 2003. 31 table of contents special note regarding forward-looking statements and analyst reports certain written and oral statements, other than purely historical information, including estimates, projections, statements relating to nike business plans, objectives and expected operating results, and the assumptions upon which those statements are based, made or incorporated by reference from time to time by nike or its representatives in this report, other reports, filings with the securities and exchange commission, press releases, conferences, or otherwise, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934. forward-looking statements include, without limitation, any statement that may predict, forecast, indicate, or imply future results, performance, or achievements, and may contain the words believe, anticipate, expect, estimate, project, will be, will continue, will likely result, or words or phrases of similar meaning. forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties which may cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. the risks and uncertainties are detailed from time to time in reports filed by nike with the sec, including forms 8-k, 10-q, and 10-k, and include, among others, the following: international, national and local general economic and market conditions; the size and growth of the overall athletic footwear, apparel, and equipment markets; intense competition among designers, marketers, distributors and sellers of athletic footwear, apparel, and equipment for consumers and endorsers; demographic changes; changes in consumer preferences; popularity of particular designs, categories of products, and sports; seasonal and geographic demand for nike products; difficulties in anticipating or forecasting changes in consumer preferences, consumer demand for nike products, and the various market factors described above; difficulties in implementing, operating, and maintaining nike increasingly complex information systems and controls, including, without limitation, the systems related to demand and supply planning, and inventory control; interruptions in data and communications systems; fluctuations and difficulty in forecasting operating results, including, without limitation, the fact that advance futures orders may not be indicative of future revenues due to the changing mix of futures and at-once orders, currency exchange rate fluctuations, order cancellations, and the fact that a significant portion of our revenue is not derived from futures orders; the ability of nike to sustain, manage or forecast its growth and inventories; the size, timing and mix of purchases of nike products; new product development and introduction; the ability to secure and protect trademarks, patents, and other intellectual property; performance and reliability of products; customer service; adverse publicity; the loss of significant customers or suppliers; dependence on distributors; business disruptions; increased costs of freight and transportation to meet delivery deadlines; increases in borrowing costs due to any decline in our debt ratings; changes in business strategy or development plans; general risks associated with doing business outside the united states, including without limitation, import duties, tariffs, quotas, political and economic instability, and terrorism; changes in government regulations; liability and other claims asserted against nike; the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel; and other factors referenced or incorporated by reference in this report and other reports. the risks included here are not exhaustive. other sections of this report may include additional factors which could adversely affect nike business and financial performance. moreover, nike operates in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. new risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors, nor can it assess the impact of all such risk factors on nike business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. investors should also be aware that while nike does, from time to time, communicate with securities analysts, it is against nike policy to disclose to them any material non-public information or other confidential commercial information. accordingly, shareholders should not assume that nike agrees with any statement or report issued by any analyst irrespective of the content of the statement or report. furthermore, nike has a policy against issuing or confirming financial forecasts or projections issued by others. thus, to the extent that reports issued by securities analysts contain any projections, forecasts or opinions, such reports are not the responsibility of nike. 32 table of contentsrisk factors 10 risk factors special note regarding forward-looking statements and analyst reports certain written and oral statements, other than purely historical information, including estimates, projections, statements relating to nike business plans, objectives and expected operating results, and the assumptions upon which those statements are based, made or incorporated by reference from time to time by nike or its representatives in this report, other reports, filings with the securities and exchange commission, press releases, conferences, or otherwise, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934. forward-looking statements include, without limitation, any statement that may predict, forecast, indicate, or imply future results, performance, or achievements, and may contain the words believe, anticipate, expect, estimate, project, will be, will continue, will likely result, or words or phrases of similar meaning. forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties which may cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. the risks and uncertainties are detailed from time to time in reports filed by nike with the sec, including forms 8-k, 10-q, and 10-k, and include, among others, the following: international, national and local general economic and market conditions; the size and growth of the overall athletic footwear, 10 table of contents apparel, and equipment markets; intense competition among designers, marketers, distributors and sellers of athletic footwear, apparel, and equipment for consumers and endorsers; demographic changes; changes in consumer preferences; popularity of particular designs, categories of products, and sports; seasonal and geographic demand for nike products; difficulties in anticipating or forecasting changes in consumer preferences, consumer demand for nike products, and the various market factors described above; difficulties in implementing, operating, and maintaining nike increasingly complex information systems and controls, including, without limitation, the systems related to demand and supply planning, and inventory control; interruptions in data and communications systems; fluctuations and difficulty in forecasting operating results, including, without limitation, the fact that advance futures orders may not be indicative of future revenues due to the changing mix of futures and at-once orders, currency exchange rate fluctuations, order cancellations, and the fact that a significant portion of our revenue is not derived from futures orders; the ability of nike to sustain, manage or forecast its growth and inventories; the size, timing and mix of purchases of nike products; new product development and introduction; the ability to secure and protect trademarks, patents, and other intellectual property; performance and reliability of products; customer service; adverse publicity; the loss of significant customers or suppliers; dependence on distributors; business disruptions; increased costs of freight and transportation to meet delivery deadlines; increases in borrowing costs due to any decline in our debt ratings; changes in business strategy or development plans; general risks associated with doing business outside the united states, including without limitation, import duties, tariffs, quotas, political and economic instability, and terrorism; changes in government regulations; liability and other claims asserted against nike; the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel; and other factors referenced or incorporated by reference in this report and other reports. the risks included here are not exhaustive. other sections of this report may include additional factors which could adversely affect nike business and financial performance. moreover, nike operates in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. new risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors, nor can it assess the impact of all such risk factors on nike business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. our products face intense competition. nike is a consumer products company and the relative popularity of various sports and fitness activities and changing design trends affect the demand for our products. the athletic footwear, apparel and equipment industry is keenly competitive in the united states and on a worldwide basis. we compete internationally with an increasing number of athletic and leisure shoe companies, athletic and leisure apparel companies, sports equipment companies, and large companies having diversified lines of athletic and leisure shoes, apparel and equipment. we also compete with other companies for the production capacity of independent manufacturers that produce our products and for import quota capacity. our competitors product offerings, technologies, marketing expenditures (including for advertising and endorsements), pricing, costs of production, and customer service are areas of intense competition. this, plus rapid changes in technology and consumer preferences in the markets for athletic and leisure footwear and apparel, and athletic equipment, constitute significant risk factors in our operations. if we do not adequately and timely anticipate and respond to our competitors, our costs may increase or the consumer demand for our products may decline significantly. if we are unable to anticipate consumer preferences and develop new products, we may not be able to maintain or increase our net revenues and profitability. our success depends on our ability to identify, originate and define product trends as well as to anticipate, gauge and react to changing consumer demands in a timely manner. all of our products are subject to changing 11 table of contents consumer preferences that cannot be predicted with certainty. our new products may not receive consumer acceptance as consumer preferences could shift rapidly to different types of performance or other sports apparel or away from these types of products altogether, and our future success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and respond to these changes. if we fail to anticipate accurately and respond to trends and shifts in consumer preferences by adjusting the mix of existing product offerings, developing new products, designs, styles and categories, and influencing sports and fitness preferences through aggressive marketing, we could experience lower sales, excess inventories and lower profit margins, any of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we rely on technical innovation to compete in the market for our products. although design and aesthetics of our products appear to be the most important factor for consumer acceptance of our products, technical innovation in the design of footwear, apparel, and athletic equipment is also essential to the commercial success of our products. research and development plays a key role in technical innovation. we rely upon specialists in the fields of biomechanics, exercise physiology, engineering, industrial design and related fields, as well as research committees and advisory boards made up of athletes, coaches, trainers, equipment managers, orthopedists, podiatrists and other experts to develop cutting edge performance products. while we strive to produce products that help to reduce injury, enhance athletic performance and maximize comfort, failure to introduce technical innovation in our products could result in a decline in consumer demand for our products. failure to continue to obtain high quality endorsers of our products could harm our business. we establish relationships with professional athletes and sports teams and leagues to evaluate and promote our products, and establish the authenticity of our products with consumers. if certain of our endorsers were to stop using our products contrary to their endorsement agreements, our business could be adversely affected. in addition, actions taken by athletes, teams or leagues associated with our products that harm the reputations of those athletes, teams or leagues could also harm our brand image with consumers and, as a result, could have an adverse effect on our sales and financial condition. in addition, poor performance by our endorsers, a failure to continue to correctly identify promising athletes to use and endorse our products, or a failure to enter into endorsement arrangements with prominent athletes and sports organizations could adversely affect our brand and result in decreased sales of our products. failure of our contractors to comply with our code of conduct, local laws, and other standards could harm our business. we contract with hundreds of contractors outside of the united states to manufacture nike brand products, and we impose on those contractors a code of conduct and other environmental, health, and safety standards for the benefit of workers. however, from time to time contractors may not be in compliance with such standards or applicable local law. significant or continuing noncompliance with such standards and laws by one or more contractors could harm our reputation and, as a result, could have an adverse effect on our sales and financial condition. our business is affected by seasonality, which could result in fluctuations in our operating results and stock price. we experience moderate fluctuations in aggregate sales volume during the year. historically, revenues in the first and fourth fiscal quarters have slightly exceeded those in the second and third fiscal quarters. however, the mix of product sales may vary considerably from time to time as a result of changes in seasonal and geographic demand for particular types of footwear, apparel and equipment. in addition, our customers may cancel orders, change delivery schedules or change the mix of products ordered with minimal notice. as a result, we may not be able to accurately predict our quarterly sales. accordingly, our results of operations are likely to fluctuate significantly from period to period. this seasonality, along with other factors that are beyond our 12 table of contents control, including general economic conditions, changes in consumer preferences, weather conditions, availability of import quotas and currency exchange rate fluctuations, could adversely affect our business and cause our results of operations to fluctuate. our operating margins are also sensitive to a number of factors that are beyond our control, including shifts in product sales mix, geographic sales trends, and currency exchange rate fluctuations, all of which we expect to continue. results of operations in any period should not be considered indicative of the results to be expected for any future period. futures orders may not be an accurate indication of our future revenues. we make substantial use of our futures ordering program, which allows retailers to order five to six months in advance of delivery with the commitment that 90 percent of their orders will be delivered within a set period at a fixed price. our futures ordering program allows us to minimize the amount of products we hold in inventory, purchasing costs, the time necessary to fill customer orders, and the risk of non-delivery. we report changes in futures orders in our periodic financial reports. reported futures orders are not necessarily indicative of our expectation of changes in revenues for any future period. this is because the mix of orders can shift between advance/futures and at-once orders. in addition, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and order cancellations can cause differences in the comparisons between futures orders and actual revenues. moreover, a significant portion of our revenue is not derived from futures orders, including wholesale sales of equipment, u.s. licensed team apparel, cole haan, converse, exeter brands group, hurley, nike bauer hockey, nike golf, and retail sales across all brands. our futures ordering program does not prevent excess inventories or inventory shortages, which could result in decreased operating margins and harm to our business. we purchase products from manufacturers outside of our futures ordering program and in advance of customer orders, which we hold in inventory and re-sell to customers. there is a risk that we may be unable to sell excess products that we have ordered from manufacturers. inventory levels in excess of customer demand may result in inventory write-downs, and the sale of excess inventory at discounted prices could significantly impair our brand image and have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. conversely, if we underestimate consumer demand for our products or if our manufacturers fail to supply the products that we require at the time we need them, we may experience inventory shortages. inventory shortages might delay shipments to customers, negatively impact retailer and distributor relationships, and diminish brand loyalty. the difficulty in forecasting demand also makes it difficult to estimate our future results of operations and financial condition from period to period. a failure to accurately predict the level of demand for our products could adversely affect our net revenues and net income, and we are unlikely to forecast such effects with any certainty in advance. we may be adversely affected by the financial health of our retailers. we extend credit to our customers based on an assessment of a customer financial circumstances, generally without requiring collateral. to assist in the scheduling of production and the shipping of seasonal products, we offer customers the ability to place orders five to six months ahead of delivery under our futures ordering program. these advance orders may be cancelled, and the risk of cancellation may increase when dealing with financially ailing retailers or retailers struggling with economic uncertainty. in the past, some customers have experienced financial difficulties, which in turn have had an adverse effect on our business. from time to time retailers will be more cautious than usual with orders as a result of weakness in the retail economy. a slowing economy in our key markets could have an adverse effect on the financial health of our customers, which could in turn have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. failure to adequately protect our intellectual property rights could adversely affect our business. we utilize trademarks on nearly all of our products and believe that having distinctive marks that are readily identifiable is an important factor in creating a market for our goods, in identifying us, and in distinguishing our 13 table of contents goods from the goods of others. we consider our nike &reg; and swoosh design &reg; trademarks to be among our most valuable assets and we have registered these trademarks in over 100 countries. in addition, we own many other trademarks that we utilize in marketing our products. we believe that our trademarks, patents, and other intellectual property rights are important to our brand, our success and our competitive position. we periodically discover products that are counterfeit reproductions of our products or that otherwise infringe on our intellectual property rights. if we are unsuccessful in challenging a party products on the basis of trademark or design infringement, continued sales of these products could adversely affect our sales and our brand and result in the shift of consumer preference away from our products. the actions we take to establish and protect trademarks, patents, and other intellectual property rights may not be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as violations of proprietary rights. in addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. we may face significant expenses and liability in connection with the protection of our intellectual property rights outside the united states, and if we are unable to successfully protect our rights or resolve intellectual property conflicts with others, our business or financial condition may be adversely affected. we are subject to periodic litigation and other regulatory proceedings, which could result in unexpected expense of time and resources. we are a defendant from time to time in lawsuits and regulatory actions relating to our business. due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation and regulatory proceedings, we cannot accurately predict the ultimate outcome of any such proceedings. an unfavorable outcome could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, any significant litigation in the future, regardless of its merits, could divert management attention from our operations and result in substantial legal fees. our international operations involve inherent risks which could result in harm to our business. virtually all of our athletic footwear and apparel is manufactured outside of the united states, and the majority of our products are sold outside of the united states. accordingly, we are subject to the risks generally associated with global trade and doing business abroad, which include foreign laws and regulations, varying consumer preferences across geographic regions, political unrest, disruptions or delays in cross-border shipments and changes in economic conditions in countries in which we manufacture or sell products. in addition, disease outbreaks, terrorist acts and military conflict have increased the risks of doing business abroad. these factors, among others, could affect our ability to manufacture products or procure materials, our ability to import products, our ability to sell products in international markets, and our cost of doing business. if any of these or other factors make the conduct of business in a particular country undesirable or impractical, our business could be adversely affected. in addition, many of our imported products are subject to duties, tariffs or quotas that affect the cost and quantity of various types of goods imported into the united states and other countries. any country in which our products are produced or sold may eliminate, adjust or impose new quotas, duties, tariffs, safeguard measures, anti-dumping duties, cargo restrictions to prevent terrorism, restrictions on the transfer of currency, or other charges or restrictions, any of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. the outcomes of an ongoing investigation into anti-dumping practices in the eu, and the annual renewal of the ntr with vietnam, each of which are discussed elsewhere in this report, could each have a material impact on our business. currency exchange rate fluctuations could result in higher costs and decreased margins. a majority of our products are sold outside of the united states. as a result, we conduct transactions in various currencies, which increases our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar. our international revenues and expenses generally are derived from sales and operations in foreign currencies, and these revenues and expenses could be affected by currency fluctuations, including amounts 14 table of contents recorded in foreign currencies and translated into u.s. dollars for consolidated financial reporting. currency exchange rate fluctuations could also disrupt the business of the independent manufacturers that produce our products by making their purchases of raw materials more expensive and more difficult to finance. foreign currency fluctuations could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we engage in hedging activities to mitigate the impact of the translation of foreign currencies on our financial results. see note 16 to our financial statements, risk management and derivatives. our hedging activities are designed to reduce and delay, but not to eliminate, the effects of foreign currency fluctuations. factors that could affect the effectiveness of our hedging activities include accuracy of sales forecasts, volatility of currency markets, and the availability of hedging instruments. since the hedging activities are designed to reduce volatility, they not only reduce the negative impact of a stronger u.s. dollar, but they also reduce the positive impact of a weaker u.s. dollar. our future financial results could be significantly affected by the value of the u.s. dollar in relation to the foreign currencies in which we conduct business. the degree to which our financial results are affected for any given time period will depend in part upon our hedging activities. our products are subject to risks associated with overseas sourcing, manufacturing, and financing. the principal materials used in our apparel products natural and synthetic fabrics and threads, plastic and metal hardware, and specialized performance fabrics designed to repel rain, retain heat, or efficiently transport body moisture are available in countries where our manufacturing takes place. the principal materials used in our footwear products natural and synthetic rubber, plastic compounds, foam cushioning materials, nylon, leather, canvas and polyurethane films are also locally available to manufacturers. nike contractors and suppliers buy raw materials in bulk. there could be a significant disruption in the supply of fabrics or raw materials from current sources or, in the event of a disruption, we might not be able to locate alternative suppliers of materials of comparable quality at an acceptable price, or at all. in addition, we cannot be certain that our unaffiliated manufacturers will be able to fill our orders in a timely manner. if we experience significant increased demand, or need to replace an existing manufacturer, there can be no assurance that additional supplies of fabrics or raw materials or additional manufacturing capacity will be available when required on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all, or that any supplier or manufacturer would allocate sufficient capacity to us in order to meet our requirements. in addition, even if we are able to expand existing or find new manufacturing or sources of materials, we may encounter delays in production and added costs as a result of the time it takes to train our suppliers and manufacturers in our methods, products, quality control standards, and labor, health and safety standards. any delays, interruption or increased costs in the supply of materials or manufacture of our products could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet retail customer and consumer demand for our products and result in lower revenues and net income both in the short and long term. because independent manufacturers manufacture a majority of our products outside of our principal sales markets, our products must be transported by third parties over large geographic distances. delays in the shipment or delivery of our products due to the availability of transportation, work stoppages, port strikes, or other factors could adversely impact our financial performance. in addition, manufacturing delays or unexpected demand for our products may require us to use faster, but more expensive, transportation methods such as aircraft, which could adversely affect our profit margins. the cost of fuel is a significant component in transportation costs, so increases in the price of petroleum products can adversely affect our profit margins. in addition, sojitz america performs significant import-export financing services for nearly all of the nike brand products sold outside of the united states, europe, middle east, africa and japan, excluding products produced and sold in the same country. any failure of sojitz america to provide these services or any failure of sojitz america banks could disrupt our ability to acquire products from our suppliers and to deliver products to our customers outside of the united states, europe, middle east, africa, and japan. such a disruption could result in cancelled orders that would adversely affect sales and profitability. 15 table of contents our success depends on our global distribution facilities. we distribute our products to customers directly from the factory and through distribution centers located throughout the world. our ability to meet customer expectations, manage inventory, complete sales and achieve objectives for operating efficiencies depends on the proper operation of our distribution facilities, the development or expansion of additional distribution capabilities, and the timely performance of services by third parties (including those involved in shipping product to and from our distribution facilities). our distribution facilities could be interrupted by information technology problems and disasters such as earthquakes or fires. any significant failure in our distribution facilities could result in an adverse affect on our business. we maintain business interruption insurance, but it may not adequately protect us from the adverse effect that could be caused by significant disruptions in our distribution facilities. we rely significantly on information technology in our supply chain, and any failure, inadequacy, interruption or security failure of that technology could harm our ability to effectively operate our business. we are heavily dependent on information technology systems across our supply chain, including for design, production, forecasting, ordering, manufacturing, transportation, sales, and distribution. our ability to effectively manage and maintain our inventory and to ship products to customers on a timely basis depends significantly on the reliability of these supply chain systems. over the last several years, as part of the ongoing initiative to upgrade our worldwide supply chain, we have implemented new systems in canada, and the u.s., emea, and asia pacific regions and are now implementing them in the americas regions. over the next few years, we will work to continue to enhance the systems and related processes in these operations and complete the implementation of new systems in the remainder of our global operations. the failure of these systems to operate effectively, problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, or a breach in security of these systems could cause delays in product fulfillment and reduced efficiency of our operations, and it could require significant capital investments to remediate the problem. we depend on key personnel, the loss of whom would harm our business. our future success will depend in part on the continued service of key executive officers and personnel. the loss of the services of any key individuals could harm us. our future success also depends on our ability to identify, attract and retain additional qualified personnel. competition for employees in our industry is intense and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. the sale of a large number of shares held by our chairman could depress the market price of our common stock. philip h. knight, the chairman of our board of directors, beneficially owns over 90 percent of our class a common stock and, if it was converted into class b common stock, 24 percent of our class b common stock. these shares are available for resale, subject to the requirements of the u.s. securities laws. the sale or prospect of the sale of a substantial number of these shares could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. anti-takeover provisions may impair an acquisition of the company or reduce the price of our common stock. there are provisions of our articles of incorporation and oregon law that are intended to protect shareholder interests by providing the board of directors a means to attempt to deny coercive takeover attempts or to negotiate with a potential acquirer in order to obtain more favorable terms. such provisions include a control share acquisition statute, a freezeout statute, two classes of stock that vote separately on certain issues, and the fact that the holders of class a common stock shares elect three-fourths of the board of directors rounded down to the next whole number. however, such provisions could discourage, delay or prevent an unsolicited merger, acquisition or other change in control of the company that some shareholders might believe to be in their best interests, or in which shareholders might receive a premium for their common stock over the prevailing market price. these provisions could also discourage proxy contests for control of the company. 16 table of contents we may fail to meet analyst expectations, which could cause the price of our stock to decline. our common stock is traded publicly, and at any given time various securities analysts follow our financial results and issue reports on us. these reports include information about our historical financial results as well as the analysts estimates of our future performance. the analysts estimates are based upon their own opinions and are often different from our estimates or expectations. if our operating results are below the estimates or expectations of public market analysts and investors, our stock price could decline. in the past, securities class action litigation has been brought against nike and other companies following a decline in the market price of their securities. if our stock price is volatile, we may become involved in this type of litigation in the future. any litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management attention and resources that are needed to successfully run our business. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 39 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in the normal course of business and consistent with established policies and procedures, we employ a variety of financial instruments to manage exposure to fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies and interest rates. it is our policy to utilize these financial instruments only where necessary to finance our business and manage such exposures; we do not enter into these transactions for speculative purposes. we are exposed to foreign currency fluctuation as a result of our international sales, product sourcing and funding activities. our foreign currency risk management objective is to reduce the variability of local entity cash flows as a result of exchange rate movements. we use forward exchange contracts and options to hedge certain anticipated but not yet firmly committed transactions as well as certain firm commitments and the related receivables and payables, including third party and intercompany transactions. when we begin hedging exposures depends on the nature of the exposure and market conditions. generally, all anticipated and firmly committed transactions that are hedged are to be recognized within twelve months, although at may 31, 2006 we had forward contracts hedging anticipated transactions that will be recognized in as many as 18 months. the majority of the contracts expiring in more than twelve months relate to the anticipated purchase of inventory by our european and japanese subsidiaries. we use forward contracts to hedge 39 table of contents non-functional currency denominated payments under intercompany loan agreements. when intercompany loans are hedged, it is typically for their expected duration. hedged transactions are principally denominated in euros, japanese yen, korean won, canadian dollars and mexican pesos. our earnings are also exposed to movements in short and long-term market interest rates. our objective in managing this interest rate exposure is to limit the impact of interest rate changes on earnings and cash flows, and to reduce overall borrowing costs. to achieve these objectives, we maintain a mix of medium and long-term fixed rate debt, commercial paper, and bank loans and have entered into interest rate swaps. market risk measurement we monitor foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk and related derivatives using a variety of techniques including a review of market value, sensitivity analysis, and value-at-risk ( var ). our market-sensitive derivative and other financial instruments, as defined by the sec, are foreign currency forward contracts, foreign currency option contracts, interest rate swaps, intercompany loans denominated in non-functional currencies, fixed interest rate u.s. dollar denominated debt, and fixed interest rate japanese yen denominated debt. we use var to monitor the foreign exchange risk of our foreign currency forward and foreign currency option derivative instruments only. the var determines the maximum potential one-day loss in the fair value of these foreign exchange rate-sensitive financial instruments. the var model estimates assume normal market conditions and a 95% confidence level. there are various modeling techniques that can be used in the var computation. our computations are based on interrelationships between currencies and interest rates (a variance/co-variance technique). these interrelationships are a function of foreign exchange currency market changes and interest rate changes over the preceding one year period. the value of foreign currency options does not change on a one-to-one basis with changes in the underlying currency rate. we adjusted the potential loss in option value for the estimated sensitivity (the delta and gamma ) to changes in the underlying currency rate. this calculation reflects the impact of foreign currency rate fluctuations on the derivative instruments only, and does not include the impact of such rate fluctuations on non-functional currency transactions (such as anticipated transactions, firm commitments, cash balances, and accounts and loans receivable and payable), including those which are hedged by these instruments. the var model is a risk analysis tool and does not purport to represent actual losses in fair value that we will incur, nor does it consider the potential effect of favorable changes in market rates. it also does not represent the full extent of the possible loss that may occur. actual future gains and losses will differ from those estimated because of changes or differences in market rates and interrelationships, hedging instruments and hedge percentages, timing and other factors. the estimated maximum one-day loss in fair value on our foreign currency sensitive financial instruments, derived using the var model, was $17.5 million and $25.7 million at may 31, 2006 and may 31, 2005, respectively. the decrease in var as of may 31, 2006 occurred due to a lower notional value of outstanding foreign currency derivative instruments as of may 31, 2006 compared to may 31, 2005. such a hypothetical loss in fair value of our derivatives would be offset by increases in the value of the underlying transactions being hedged. the average monthly change in the fair values of foreign currency forward and foreign currency option derivative instruments was $34.9 million and $37.2 million for fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005, respectively. 40 table of contents details of other market-sensitive financial instruments and derivative financial instruments not included in the var calculation above are provided in the table below, except the interest rate swaps which are described below. these instruments include intercompany loans denominated in non-functional currencies, fixed interest rate japanese yen denominated debt, fixed interest rate u.s. dollar denominated debt and interest rate swaps. for debt obligations, the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates. expected maturity date year ended may 31, 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 thereafter total fair value (in millions, except interest rates) foreign exchange risk euro functional currency intercompany loan u.s. dollar denominated fixed rate principal payments $ 270.4 $ 270.4 $ 270.4 average interest rate 5.7 % 5.7 % intercompany loan british pound denominated fixed rate principal payments $ 86.1 $ 86.1 $ 86.1 average interest rate 3.9 % 3.9 % u.s. dollar functional currency intercompany loan japanese yen denominated variable rate principal payments $ 93.8 $ 93.8 $ 93.8 average interest rate 0.5 % 0.5 % intercompany loan japanese yen denominated fixed rate principal payments $ 180.5 35.7 $ 216.2 $ 216.2 average interest rate 0.6 % 0.8 % 0.8 % 0.6 % canadian dollar functional currency intercompany loan u.s. dollar denominated fixed rate principal payments $ 50.0 $ 50.0 $ 50.0 average interest rate 4.9 % 4.9 % korean won functional currency intercompany loan u.s. dollar denominated fixed rate principal payments $ 28.0 $ 28.0 $ 28.0 average interest rate 5.4 % 5.4 % japanese yen functional currency long-term japanese yen debt fixed rate principal payments $ 6.0 6.0 6.0 6.0 6.0 150.2 $ 180.2 $ 192.4 average interest rate 3.4 % 3.4 % 3.5 % 3.5 % 3.5 % 2.5 % 2.8 % interest rate risk japanese yen functional currency long-term japanese yen debt fixed rate principal payments $ 6.0 6.0 6.0 6.0 6.0 150.2 $ 180.2 $ 192.4 average interest rate 3.4 % 3.4 % 3.5 % 3.5 % 3.5 % 2.5 % 2.8 % u.s. dollar functional currency long-term u.s. dollar debt fixed rate principal payments $ 250.0 25.0 25.0 190.0 $ 490.0 $ 481.6 average interest rate 5.2 % 5.1 % 5.1 % 5.1 % 5.1 % 5.1 % 5.1 % intercompany loans and related interest amounts eliminate in consolidation. intercompany loans are generally hedged against foreign exchange risk through the use of forward contracts with third parties, as discussed above. 41 table of contents the fixed interest rate japanese yen denominated debts were issued by and are accounted for by two of our japanese subsidiaries. accordingly, the monthly remeasurement of these instruments due to changes in foreign exchange rates is recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income upon the consolidation of these subsidiaries. there were no significant changes in debt market risks during fiscal 2006. we did not issue any long-term fixed-rate corporate bonds during fiscal 2006 or 2005; however, in previous years we issued a total of $490 million in long-term fixed-rate corporate bonds that mature between august 2006 and october 2015. fixed interest rates on these bonds range from 4.7% to 5.66%. for each of the bonds issued, we have entered into interest rate swap agreements whereby we receive fixed interest payments at the same rate as the bonds and pay variable interest payments based on the three-month or six-month libor plus a spread. as a result of the interest rate swap agreements the average effective interest rate payable on these bonds was 6.07% at may 31, 2006 and 4.17% at may 31, 2005. for $440 million of the issued bonds, the associated swaps have the same notional amount and maturity date as the corresponding bond. these interest rate swaps are accounted for as fair value hedges, so changes in the recorded fair values of the swaps are offset by changes in the recorded fair value of the related debt. the remaining $50 million bond matures in october 2013 whereas the associated interest rate swap expires in october 2006. accordingly, changes in the fair value of this swap are recorded to net income each period. the recorded fair value of the interest rate swaps accounted for as fair value hedges was a net $5.6 million loss at may 31, 2006 and a $9.0 million gain at may 31, 2005. the change in fair value of the $50 million interest rate swap expiring october 2006 was not material for the years ended may 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004. in fiscal 2003 we also entered into an interest rate swap agreement related to a japanese yen denominated intercompany loan with one of our japanese subsidiaries. the japanese subsidiary pays variable interest on the intercompany loan based on 3-month libor plus a spread. under the interest rate swap agreement, the subsidiary pays fixed interest payments at 0.8% and receives variable interest payments based on 3-month libor plus a spread based on a notional amount of 8 billion japanese yen. this interest rate swap is not accounted for as a hedge, accordingly changes in the fair value of the swap are recorded to net income each period. the change in fair value of the swap was not material for the years ended may 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004.risk factors 11 risk factors special note regarding forward-looking statements and analyst reports certain written and oral statements, other than purely historical information, including estimates, projections, statements relating to nike business plans, objectives and expected operating results, and the assumptions upon which those statements are based, made or incorporated by reference from time to time by nike or its representatives in this report, other reports, filings with the securities and exchange commission, or sec, press releases, conferences, or otherwise, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended. forward-looking statements include, without limitation, any statement that may predict, forecast, indicate, or imply future results, performance, or achievements, and may contain the words believe, anticipate, expect, estimate, project, will be, will continue, will likely result, or words or phrases of similar meaning. forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties which may cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. the risks and uncertainties are detailed from time to time in reports filed by nike with the sec, including forms 8-k, 10-q, and 10-k, and include, among others, the following: international, national and local general economic and market conditions; the size and growth of the overall athletic footwear, apparel, and equipment markets; intense competition among designers, marketers, distributors and sellers of athletic footwear, apparel, and equipment for consumers and endorsers; demographic changes; changes in consumer preferences; popularity of particular designs, categories of products, and sports; seasonal and geographic demand for nike products; difficulties in anticipating or forecasting changes in consumer preferences, consumer demand for nike products, and the various market factors described above; difficulties in implementing, operating, and maintaining nike increasingly complex information systems and controls, including, without limitation, the systems related to demand and supply planning, and inventory control; interruptions in data and communications systems; fluctuations and difficulty in forecasting operating results, including, without limitation, the fact that advance futures orders may not be indicative of future revenues due to the changing mix of futures and at-once orders, currency exchange rate fluctuations, order cancellations, and the fact that a significant portion of our revenue is not derived from futures orders; the ability of nike to sustain, manage or forecast its growth and inventories; the size, timing and mix of purchases of nike products; new product development and introduction; the ability to secure and protect trademarks, patents, and other intellectual property; performance and reliability of products; customer service; adverse publicity; the loss of significant customers or suppliers; dependence on distributors; business disruptions; increased costs of freight and transportation to meet delivery deadlines; increases in borrowing costs due to any decline in our debt ratings; changes in business strategy or development plans; general risks associated with doing business outside the united states, including without limitation, import duties, tariffs, quotas, political and economic instability, and terrorism; changes in government regulations; liability and other claims asserted against nike; the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel; and other factors referenced or incorporated by reference in this report and other reports. the risks included here are not exhaustive. other sections of this report may include additional factors which could adversely affect nike business and financial performance. moreover, nike operates in a very 11 table of contents competitive and rapidly changing environment. new risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors, nor can it assess the impact of all such risk factors on nike business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. our products face intense competition. nike is a consumer products company and the relative popularity of various sports and fitness activities and changing design trends affect the demand for our products. the athletic footwear, apparel and equipment industry is keenly competitive in the united states and on a worldwide basis. we compete internationally with an increasing number of athletic and leisure shoe companies, athletic and leisure apparel companies, sports equipment companies, and large companies having diversified lines of athletic and leisure shoes, apparel and equipment. we also compete with other companies for the production capacity of independent manufacturers that produce our products and for import quota capacity. our competitors product offerings, technologies, marketing expenditures (including for advertising and endorsements), pricing, costs of production, and customer service are areas of intense competition. this, in addition to rapid changes in technology and consumer preferences in the markets for athletic and leisure footwear and apparel, and athletic equipment, constitute significant risk factors in our operations. if we do not adequately and timely anticipate and respond to our competitors, our costs may increase or the consumer demand for our products may decline significantly. if we are unable to anticipate consumer preferences and develop new products, we may not be able to maintain or increase our net revenues and profits. our success depends on our ability to identify, originate and define product trends as well as to anticipate, gauge and react to changing consumer demands in a timely manner. all of our products are subject to changing consumer preferences that cannot be predicted with certainty. our new products may not receive consumer acceptance as consumer preferences could shift rapidly to different types of performance or other sports apparel or away from these types of products altogether, and our future success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and respond to these changes. if we fail to anticipate accurately and respond to trends and shifts in consumer preferences by adjusting the mix of existing product offerings, developing new products, designs, styles and categories, and influencing sports and fitness preferences through aggressive marketing, we could experience lower sales, excess inventories and lower profit margins, any of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we rely on technical innovation to compete in the market for our products. although design and aesthetics of our products appear to be the most important factor for consumer acceptance of our products, technical innovation in the design of footwear, apparel, and athletic equipment is also essential to the commercial success of our products. research and development plays a key role in technical innovation. we rely upon specialists in the fields of biomechanics, exercise physiology, engineering, industrial design and related fields, as well as research committees and advisory boards made up of athletes, coaches, trainers, equipment managers, orthopedists, podiatrists and other experts to develop cutting edge performance products. while we strive to produce products that help to reduce injury, enhance athletic performance and maximize comfort, failure to introduce technical innovation in our products could result in a decline in consumer demand for our products. 12 table of contents failure to continue to obtain high quality endorsers of our products could harm our business. we establish relationships with professional athletes and sports teams and leagues to evaluate and promote our products, and establish the authenticity of our products with consumers. if certain of our endorsers were to stop using our products contrary to their endorsement agreements, our business could be adversely affected. in addition, actions taken by athletes, teams or leagues associated with our products that harm the reputations of those athletes, teams or leagues could also harm our brand image with consumers and, as a result, could have an adverse effect on our sales and financial condition. in addition, poor performance by our endorsers, a failure to continue to correctly identify promising athletes to use and endorse our products, or a failure to enter into endorsement arrangements with prominent athletes and sports organizations could adversely affect our brand and result in decreased sales of our products. failure of our contractors to comply with our code of conduct, local laws, and other standards could harm our business. we contract with hundreds of contractors outside of the united states to manufacture nike brand products, and we impose on those contractors a code of conduct and other environmental, health, and safety standards for the benefit of workers. however, from time to time contractors may not be in compliance with such standards or applicable local law. significant or continuing noncompliance with such standards and laws by one or more contractors could harm our reputation and, as a result, could have an adverse effect on our sales and financial condition. our business is affected by seasonality, which could result in fluctuations in our operating results and stock price. we experience moderate fluctuations in aggregate sales volume during the year. historically, revenues in the first and fourth fiscal quarters have slightly exceeded those in the second and third fiscal quarters. however, the mix of product sales may vary considerably from time to time as a result of changes in seasonal and geographic demand for particular types of footwear, apparel and equipment. in addition, our customers may cancel orders, change delivery schedules or change the mix of products ordered with minimal notice. as a result, we may not be able to accurately predict our quarterly sales. accordingly, our results of operations are likely to fluctuate significantly from period to period. this seasonality, along with other factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions, changes in consumer preferences, weather conditions, availability of import quotas and currency exchange rate fluctuations, could adversely affect our business and cause our results of operations to fluctuate. our operating margins are also sensitive to a number of factors that are beyond our control, including shifts in product sales mix, geographic sales trends, and currency exchange rate fluctuations, all of which we expect to continue. results of operations in any period should not be considered indicative of the results to be expected for any future period. futures orders may not be an accurate indication of our future revenues. we make substantial use of our futures ordering program, which allows retailers to order five to six months in advance of delivery with the commitment that 90 percent of their orders will be delivered within a set period at a fixed price. our futures ordering program allows us to minimize the amount of products we hold in inventory, purchasing costs, the time necessary to fill customer orders, and the risk of non-delivery. we report changes in futures orders in our periodic financial reports. although we believe futures orders are an important indicator of our future revenues, reported futures orders are not necessarily indicative of our expectation of changes in revenues for any future period. this is because the mix of orders can shift between advance/futures and at-once orders. in addition, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, order cancellations, returns, and discounts can cause differences in the comparisons between futures orders and actual revenues. moreover, a significant portion of our revenue is not derived from futures orders, including at-once closeout sales of nike footwear and apparel, wholesale sales of equipment, cole haan, converse, exeter brands group, hurley, nike bauer hockey, nike golf, and retail sales across all brands. 13 table of contents our futures ordering program does not prevent excess inventories or inventory shortages, which could result in decreased operating margins and harm to our business. we purchase products from manufacturers outside of our futures ordering program and in advance of customer orders, which we hold in inventory and re-sell to customers. there is a risk that we may be unable to sell excess products that we have ordered from manufacturers. inventory levels in excess of customer demand may result in inventory write-downs, and the sale of excess inventory at discounted prices could significantly impair our brand image and have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. conversely, if we underestimate consumer demand for our products or if our manufacturers fail to supply the products that we require at the time we need them, we may experience inventory shortages. inventory shortages might delay shipments to customers, negatively impact retailer and distributor relationships, and diminish brand loyalty. the difficulty in forecasting demand also makes it difficult to estimate our future results of operations and financial condition from period to period. a failure to accurately predict the level of demand for our products could adversely affect our net revenues and net income, and we are unlikely to forecast such effects with any certainty in advance. we may be adversely affected by the financial health of our retailers. we extend credit to our customers based on an assessment of a customer financial condition, generally without requiring collateral. to assist in the scheduling of production and the shipping of seasonal products, we offer customers the ability to place orders five to six months ahead of delivery under our futures ordering program. these advance orders may be cancelled, and the risk of cancellation may increase when dealing with financially ailing retailers or retailers struggling with economic uncertainty. in the past, some customers have experienced financial difficulties, which in turn have had an adverse effect on our business. from time to time retailers will be more cautious than usual with orders as a result of weakness in the retail economy. a slowing economy in our key markets could have an adverse effect on the financial health of our customers, which could in turn have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. consolidation of retailers or concentration of retail market share among a few retailers may increase and concentrate our credit risk, and impair our ability to sell our products. the athletic footwear, apparel, and equipment retail markets in some countries are dominated by a few large athletic footwear, apparel, and equipment retailers with many stores. these significant retailers have been increasing their market share by expanding through acquisitions and construction of additional stores. these situations concentrate our credit risk in a relatively small number of retailers, and, if any of these retailers were to experience a shortage of liquidity, it would increase the risk that their outstanding payables to us may not be paid. in addition, increasing market share concentration among one or a few retailers in a particular country or region increases the risk that if any one of them substantially reduces their purchases of our products, we may be unable to find a sufficient number of other retail outlets for our products to sustain the same level of sales and revenues. failure to adequately protect our intellectual property rights could adversely affect our business. we utilize trademarks on nearly all of our products and believe that having distinctive marks that are readily identifiable is an important factor in creating a market for our goods, in identifying us, and in distinguishing our goods from the goods of others. we consider our nike &reg; and swoosh design &reg; trademarks to be among our most valuable assets and we have registered these trademarks in over 100 countries. in addition, we own many other trademarks that we utilize in marketing our products. we believe that our trademarks, patents, and other intellectual property rights are important to our brand, our success and our competitive position. we periodically discover products that are counterfeit reproductions of our products or that otherwise infringe on our intellectual property rights. if we are unsuccessful in challenging a party products on the basis of trademark or design or 14 table of contents utility patent infringement, continued sales of these products could adversely affect our sales and our brand and result in the shift of consumer preference away from our products. the actions we take to establish and protect trademarks, patents, and other intellectual property rights may not be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as violations of proprietary rights. in addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. we may face significant expenses and liability in connection with the protection of our intellectual property rights outside the united states, and if we are unable to successfully protect our rights or resolve intellectual property conflicts with others, our business or financial condition may be adversely affected. we are subject to periodic litigation and other regulatory proceedings, which could result in unexpected expense of time and resources. we are a defendant from time to time in lawsuits and regulatory actions relating to our business. due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation and regulatory proceedings, we cannot accurately predict the ultimate outcome of any such proceedings. an unfavorable outcome could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, any significant litigation in the future, regardless of its merits, could divert management attention from our operations and result in substantial legal fees. our international operations involve inherent risks which could result in harm to our business. virtually all of our athletic footwear and apparel is manufactured outside of the united states, and the majority of our products are sold outside of the united states. accordingly, we are subject to the risks generally associated with global trade and doing business abroad, which include foreign laws and regulations, varying consumer preferences across geographic regions, political unrest, disruptions or delays in cross-border shipments and changes in economic conditions in countries in which we manufacture or sell products. in addition, disease outbreaks, terrorist acts and military conflict have increased the risks of doing business abroad. these factors, among others, could affect our ability to manufacture products or procure materials, our ability to import products, our ability to sell products in international markets, and our cost of doing business. if any of these or other factors make the conduct of business in a particular country undesirable or impractical, our business could be adversely affected. in addition, many of our imported products are subject to duties, tariffs or quotas that affect the cost and quantity of various types of goods imported into the united states and other countries. any country in which our products are produced or sold may eliminate, adjust or impose new quotas, duties, tariffs, safeguard measures, anti-dumping duties, cargo restrictions to prevent terrorism, restrictions on the transfer of currency, or other charges or restrictions, any of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. currency exchange rate fluctuations could result in higher costs and decreased margins. a majority of our products are sold outside of the united states. as a result, we conduct transactions in various currencies, which increases our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar. our international revenues and expenses generally are derived from sales and operations in foreign currencies, and these revenues and expenses could be affected by currency fluctuations, including amounts recorded in foreign currencies and translated into u.s. dollars for consolidated financial reporting. currency exchange rate fluctuations could also disrupt the business of the independent manufacturers that produce our products by making their purchases of raw materials more expensive and more difficult to finance. foreign currency fluctuations could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we engage in hedging activities to mitigate the impact of the translation of foreign currencies on our financial results. see note 16 to our financial statements, risk management and derivatives. our hedging 15 table of contents activities are designed to reduce and delay, but not to eliminate, the effects of foreign currency fluctuations. factors that could affect the effectiveness of our hedging activities include accuracy of sales forecasts, volatility of currency markets, and the availability of hedging instruments. since the hedging activities are designed to reduce volatility, they not only reduce the negative impact of a stronger u.s. dollar, but they also reduce the positive impact of a weaker u.s. dollar. our future financial results could be significantly affected by the value of the u.s. dollar in relation to the foreign currencies in which we conduct business. the degree to which our financial results are affected for any given time period will depend in part upon our hedging activities. our products are subject to risks associated with overseas sourcing, manufacturing, and financing. the principal materials used in our apparel products natural and synthetic fabrics and threads, plastic and metal hardware, and specialized performance fabrics designed to repel rain, retain heat, or efficiently transport body moisture are available in countries where our manufacturing takes place. the principal materials used in our footwear products natural and synthetic rubber, plastic compounds, foam cushioning materials, nylon, leather, canvas and polyurethane films are also locally available to manufacturers. nike contractors and suppliers buy raw materials in bulk. there could be a significant disruption in the supply of fabrics or raw materials from current sources or, in the event of a disruption, we might not be able to locate alternative suppliers of materials of comparable quality at an acceptable price, or at all. in addition, we cannot be certain that our unaffiliated manufacturers will be able to fill our orders in a timely manner. if we experience significant increases in demand, or need to replace an existing manufacturer, there can be no assurance that additional supplies of fabrics or raw materials or additional manufacturing capacity will be available when required on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all, or that any supplier or manufacturer would allocate sufficient capacity to us in order to meet our requirements. in addition, even if we are able to expand existing or find new manufacturing or sources of materials, we may encounter delays in production and added costs as a result of the time it takes to train our suppliers and manufacturers in our methods, products, quality control standards, and labor, health and safety standards. any delays, interruption or increased costs in the supply of materials or manufacture of our products could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet retail customer and consumer demand for our products and result in lower revenues and net income both in the short and long term. because independent manufacturers manufacture a majority of our products outside of our principal sales markets, our products must be transported by third parties over large geographic distances. delays in the shipment or delivery of our products due to the availability of transportation, work stoppages, port strikes, infrastructure congestion, or other factors, and costs and delays associated with transitioning between manufacturers, could adversely impact our financial performance. in addition, manufacturing delays or unexpected demand for our products may require us to use faster, but more expensive, transportation methods such as aircraft, which could adversely affect our profit margins. the cost of fuel is a significant component in transportation costs, so increases in the price of petroleum products can adversely affect our profit margins. in addition, sojitz america performs significant import-export financing services for most of the nike brand products sold outside of the united states, europe, middle east, africa and japan, excluding products produced and sold in the same country. any failure of sojitz america to provide these services or any failure of sojitz america banks could disrupt our ability to acquire products from our suppliers and to deliver products to our customers outside of the united states, europe, middle east, africa, and japan. such a disruption could result in cancelled orders that would adversely affect sales and profitability. our success depends on our global distribution facilities. we distribute our products to customers directly from the factory and through distribution centers located throughout the world. our ability to meet customer expectations, manage inventory, complete sales and achieve objectives for operating efficiencies depends on the proper operation of our distribution facilities, the 16 table of contents development or expansion of additional distribution capabilities, and the timely performance of services by third parties (including those involved in shipping product to and from our distribution facilities). our distribution facilities could be interrupted by information technology problems and disasters such as earthquakes or fires. any significant failure in our distribution facilities could result in an adverse affect on our business. we maintain business interruption insurance, but it may not adequately protect us from any adverse effects that could be caused by significant disruptions in our distribution facilities. we rely significantly on information technology in our supply chain, and any failure, inadequacy, interruption or security failure of that technology could harm our ability to effectively operate our business. we are heavily dependent on information technology systems across our supply chain, including for design, production, forecasting, ordering, manufacturing, transportation, sales, and distribution. our ability to effectively manage and maintain our inventory and to ship products to customers on a timely basis depends significantly on the reliability of these supply chain systems. over the last several years, as part of the ongoing initiative to upgrade our worldwide supply chain, we have implemented new systems in all of our geographical regions in which we operate. over the next few years, we will work to continue to enhance the systems and related processes in our global operations. the failure of these systems to operate effectively, problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, or a breach in security of these systems could cause delays in product fulfillment and reduced efficiency of our operations, and it could require significant capital investments to remediate the problem. we depend on key personnel, the loss of whom would harm our business. our future success will depend in part on the continued service of key executive officers and personnel. the loss of the services of any key individuals could harm us. our future success also depends on our ability to identify, attract and retain additional qualified personnel. competition for employees in our industry is intense and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. the sale of a large number of shares held by our chairman could depress the market price of our common stock. philip h. knight, co-founder and chairman of our board of directors, beneficially owns over 90 percent of our class a common stock. if all class a common stock were converted into class b common stock, mr. knight would own over 22 percent of our class b common stock. these shares are available for resale, subject to the requirements of the u.s. securities laws. the sale or prospect of the sale of a substantial number of these shares could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. anti-takeover provisions may impair an acquisition of the company or reduce the price of our common stock. there are provisions of our articles of incorporation and oregon law that are intended to protect shareholder interests by providing the board of directors a means to attempt to deny coercive takeover attempts or to negotiate with a potential acquirer in order to obtain more favorable terms. such provisions include a control share acquisition statute, a freezeout statute, two classes of stock that vote separately on certain issues, and the fact that the holders of class a common stock shares elect three-fourths of the board of directors rounded down to the next whole number. however, such provisions could discourage, delay or prevent an unsolicited merger, acquisition or other change in control of our company that some shareholders might believe to be in their best interests, or in which shareholders might receive a premium for their common stock over the prevailing market price. these provisions could also discourage proxy contests for control of the company. we may fail to meet analyst expectations, which could cause the price of our stock to decline. our common stock is traded publicly, and at any given time various securities analysts follow our financial results and issue reports on us. these reports include information about our historical financial results as well as 17 table of contents the analysts estimates of our future performance. the analysts estimates are based upon their own opinions and are often different from our estimates or expectations. if our operating results are below the estimates or expectations of public market analysts and investors, our stock price could decline. in the past, securities class action litigation has been brought against nike and other companies following a decline in the market price of their securities. if our stock price is volatile, we may become involved in this type of litigation in the future. any litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management attention and resources that are needed to successfully run our business. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 43 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in the normal course of business and consistent with established policies and procedures, we employ a variety of financial instruments to manage exposure to fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies and interest rates. it is our policy to utilize these financial instruments only where necessary to finance our business and manage such exposures; we do not enter into these transactions for speculative purposes. 43 table of contents we are exposed to foreign currency fluctuation as a result of our international sales, product sourcing and funding activities. our foreign currency risk management objective is to reduce the variability of local entity cash flows as a result of exchange rate movements. we use forward exchange contracts and options to hedge certain anticipated but not yet firmly committed transactions as well as certain firm commitments and the related receivables and payables, including third party and intercompany transactions. when we begin hedging exposures, the type and duration of each hedge depends on the nature of the exposure and market conditions. generally, all anticipated and firmly committed transactions that are hedged are to be recognized within twelve months, although at may 31, 2007 we had forward contracts hedging anticipated transactions that will be recognized in as many as 18 months. the majority of the contracts expiring in more than twelve months relate to the anticipated purchase of inventory by our european subsidiary. we use forward contracts to hedge non-functional currency denominated payments under intercompany loan agreements. when intercompany loans are hedged, it is typically for their expected duration. hedged transactions are principally denominated in euros, british pounds, japanese yen, korean won, canadian dollars and mexican pesos. our earnings are also exposed to movements in short and long-term market interest rates. our objective in managing this interest rate exposure is to limit the impact of interest rate changes on earnings and cash flows, and to reduce overall borrowing costs. to achieve these objectives, we maintain a mix of medium and long-term fixed rate debt, commercial paper, and bank loans and have entered into interest rate swaps. market risk measurement we monitor foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk and related derivatives using a variety of techniques including a review of market value, sensitivity analysis, and value-at-risk ( var ). our market-sensitive derivative and other financial instruments, as defined by the sec, are foreign currency forward contracts, foreign currency option contracts, interest rate swaps, intercompany loans denominated in non-functional currencies, fixed interest rate u.s. dollar denominated debt, and fixed interest rate japanese yen denominated debt. we use var to monitor the foreign exchange risk of our foreign currency forward and foreign currency option derivative instruments only. the var determines the maximum potential one-day loss in the fair value of these foreign exchange rate-sensitive financial instruments. the var model estimates assume normal market conditions and a 95% confidence level. there are various modeling techniques that can be used in the var computation. our computations are based on interrelationships between currencies and interest rates (a variance/co-variance technique). these interrelationships are a function of foreign exchange currency market changes and interest rate changes over the preceding one year period. the value of foreign currency options does not change on a one-to-one basis with changes in the underlying currency rate. we adjusted the potential loss in option value for the estimated sensitivity (the delta and gamma ) to changes in the underlying currency rate. this calculation reflects the impact of foreign currency rate fluctuations on the derivative instruments only, and does not include the impact of such rate fluctuations on non-functional currency transactions (such as anticipated transactions, firm commitments, cash balances, and accounts and loans receivable and payable), including those which are hedged by these instruments. the var model is a risk analysis tool and does not purport to represent actual losses in fair value that we will incur, nor does it consider the potential effect of favorable changes in market rates. it also does not represent the full extent of the possible loss that may occur. actual future gains and losses will differ from those estimated because of changes or differences in market rates and interrelationships, hedging instruments and hedge percentages, timing and other factors. the estimated maximum one-day loss in fair value on our foreign currency sensitive financial instruments, derived using the var model, was $13.7 million and $17.5 million at may 31, 2007 and may 31, 2006, respectively. the decrease in var as of may 31, 2007 occurred due to a lower notional value of outstanding foreign currency derivative instruments as of may 31, 2007 compared to may 31, 2006. such a hypothetical loss in fair value of our derivatives would be offset by increases in the value of the underlying transactions being 44 table of contents hedged. the average monthly change in the fair values of foreign currency forward and foreign currency option derivative instruments was $36.5 million and $34.9 million for fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006, respectively. details of other market-sensitive financial instruments and derivative financial instruments not included in the var calculation above are provided in the table below, except the interest rate swaps which are described below. these instruments include intercompany loans denominated in non-functional currencies, fixed interest rate japanese yen denominated debt, fixed interest rate u.s. dollar denominated debt and interest rate swaps. for debt obligations, the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates. expected maturity date year ended may 31, 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 thereafter total fair value (in millions, except interest rates) foreign exchange risk euro functional currency intercompany loan u.s. dollar denominated fixed rate principal payments $ 270.4 $ 270.4 $ 270.4 average interest rate 5.7 % 5.7 % intercompany loan british pound denominated fixed rate principal payments $ 29.3 $ 29.3 $ 29.3 average interest rate 5.1 % 5.1 % u.s. dollar functional currency intercompany loan japanese yen denominated fixed rate principal payments $ 112.7 32.9 $ 145.6 $ 145.6 average interest rate 1.0 % 0.8 % 1.0 % intercompany loan canadian dollar denominated fixed rate principal payments $ 69.6 $ 69.6 $ 69.6 average interest rate 4.0 % 4.0 % japanese yen functional currency long-term japanese yen debt fixed rate principal payments $ 5.5 5.5 5.5 5.5 133.0 46.5 $ 201.5 $ 210.5 average interest rate 3.0 % 3.1 % 3.1 % 3.1 % 3.0 % 2.4 % 2.9 % interest rate risk japanese yen functional currency long-term japanese yen debt fixed rate principal payments $ 5.5 5.5 5.5 5.5 133.0 46.5 $ 201.5 $ 210.5 average interest rate 3.0 % 3.1 % 3.1 % 3.1 % 3.0 % 2.4 % 2.9 % u.s. dollar functional currency long-term u.s. dollar debt fixed rate principal payments $ 25.0 25.0 190.0 $ 240.0 $ 232.7 average interest rate 5.1 % 5.1 % 5.1 % 5.1 % 5.1 % 5.1 % 5.1 % intercompany loans and related interest amounts eliminate in consolidation. intercompany loans are generally hedged against foreign exchange risk through the use of forward contracts with third parties, as discussed above. the fixed interest rate japanese yen denominated debts were issued by and are accounted for by one of our japanese subsidiaries. accordingly, the monthly remeasurement of these instruments due to changes in foreign exchange rates is recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income upon the consolidation of this subsidiary. there were no significant changes in debt market risks during fiscal 2007. we did not issue any long-term fixed-rate corporate bonds during fiscal 2007 or 2006; however, in previous years we issued a total of $240 million in long-term fixed-rate corporate bonds that mature between july 2007 and october 2015. fixed interest 45 table of contents rates on these bonds range from 4.7% to 5.66%. for each of the bonds issued, we have entered into interest rate swap agreements whereby we receive fixed interest payments at the same rate as the bonds and pay variable interest payments based on the three-month or six-month libor plus a spread. as a result of the interest rate swap agreements, the average effective interest rate payable on these bonds was 5.38% at may 31, 2007 and 6.07% at may 31, 2006. for $190 million of the issued bonds, the associated swaps have the same notional amount and maturity date as the corresponding bond. these interest rate swaps are accounted for as fair value hedges, so changes in the recorded fair values of the swaps are offset by changes in the recorded fair value of the related debt. the remaining $50 million bond matures in october 2013, whereas the associated interest rate swap expired in october 2006. accordingly, changes in the fair value of this swap were recorded in net income each period. the recorded fair value of the interest rate swaps accounted for as fair value hedges was a net loss of $2.6 million and $5.6 million at may 31, 2007 and may 31, 2006, respectively, and a $9.0 million gain at may 31, 2005. the change in fair value of the $50 million interest rate swap that expired in october 2006 was not material for the years ended may 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005. in fiscal 2003 we also entered into an interest rate swap agreement related to a japanese yen denominated intercompany loan with one of our japanese subsidiaries. the japanese subsidiary pays variable interest on the intercompany loan based on 3-month libor plus a spread. under the interest rate swap agreement, the subsidiary pays fixed interest payments at 0.8% and receives variable interest payments based on 3-month libor plus a spread based on a notional amount of 8.0 billion japanese yen. this interest rate swap is not accounted for as a hedge. accordingly, changes in the fair value of the swap are recorded to net income each period. the change in fair value of the swap was not material for the years ended may 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005.risk factors 10 risk factors special note regarding forward-looking statements and analyst reports certain written and oral statements, other than purely historical information, including estimates, projections, statements relating to nike business plans, objectives and expected operating results, and the assumptions upon which those statements are based, made or incorporated by reference from time to time by nike or its representatives in this report, other reports, filings with the securities and exchange commission, or sec, press releases, conferences, or otherwise, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended. forward-looking statements include, without limitation, any statement that may predict, forecast, indicate, or imply future results, performance, or achievements, and may contain the words believe, anticipate, expect, estimate, project, will be, will continue, will likely result, or words or phrases of similar meaning. forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties which may cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. the risks and uncertainties are detailed from time to time in reports filed by nike with the sec, including forms 8-k, 10-q, and 10-k, and include, among others, the following: international, national and local general economic and market conditions; the size and growth of the overall athletic footwear, apparel, and equipment markets; intense competition among designers, marketers, distributors and sellers of athletic footwear, apparel, and equipment for consumers and endorsers; demographic changes; changes in consumer preferences; popularity of particular designs, categories of products, and sports; seasonal and geographic demand for nike products; difficulties in anticipating or forecasting changes in consumer preferences, consumer demand for nike products, and the various market factors described above; difficulties in implementing, operating, and maintaining nike increasingly complex information systems and controls, including, without limitation, the systems related to demand and supply planning, and inventory control; interruptions in data and communications systems; fluctuations and difficulty in forecasting operating results, including, without limitation, the fact that advance futures orders may not be indicative of future revenues due to the changing mix of futures and at-once orders, currency exchange rate fluctuations, order cancellations, and the fact that a significant portion of our revenue is not derived from futures orders; the ability of nike to sustain, manage or forecast its growth and inventories; the size, timing and mix of purchases of nike products; increases in the cost of materials and energy used to manufacture products, new product development and introduction; the ability to secure and protect trademarks, patents, and other intellectual property; performance and reliability of products; customer service; adverse publicity; the loss of significant customers or suppliers; dependence on distributors; business disruptions; increased costs of freight and transportation to meet delivery deadlines; increases in borrowing costs due to any decline in our debt ratings; changes in business strategy or development plans; general risks associated with doing business outside the united states, including without limitation, import duties, tariffs, quotas, political and economic instability, and terrorism; changes in government regulations; liability and other claims asserted against nike; the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel; and other factors referenced or incorporated by reference in this report and other reports. the risks included here are not exhaustive. other sections of this report may include additional factors which could adversely affect nike business and financial performance. moreover, nike operates in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. new risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors, nor can it assess the impact of all such risk factors on nike business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. 10 table of contents our products face intense competition. nike is a consumer products company and the relative popularity of various sports and fitness activities and changing design trends affect the demand for our products. the athletic footwear, apparel and equipment industry is keenly competitive in the united states and on a worldwide basis. we compete internationally with an increasing number of athletic and leisure shoe companies, athletic and leisure apparel companies, sports equipment companies, and large companies having diversified lines of athletic and leisure shoes, apparel and equipment. we also compete with other companies for the production capacity of independent manufacturers that produce our products and for import quota capacity. our competitors product offerings, technologies, marketing expenditures (including for advertising and endorsements), pricing, costs of production, and customer service are areas of intense competition. this, in addition to rapid changes in technology and consumer preferences in the markets for athletic and leisure footwear and apparel, and athletic equipment, constitute significant risk factors in our operations. if we do not adequately and timely anticipate and respond to our competitors, our costs may increase or the consumer demand for our products may decline significantly. if we are unable to anticipate consumer preferences and develop new products, we may not be able to maintain or increase our net revenues and profits. our success depends on our ability to identify, originate and define product trends as well as to anticipate, gauge and react to changing consumer demands in a timely manner. all of our products are subject to changing consumer preferences that cannot be predicted with certainty. our new products may not receive consumer acceptance as consumer preferences could shift rapidly to different types of performance or other sports apparel or away from these types of products altogether, and our future success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and respond to these changes. if we fail to anticipate accurately and respond to trends and shifts in consumer preferences by adjusting the mix of existing product offerings, developing new products, designs, styles and categories, and influencing sports and fitness preferences through aggressive marketing, we could experience lower sales, excess inventories and lower profit margins, any of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we rely on technical innovation and high quality products to compete in the market for our products. although design and aesthetics of our products appear to be the most important factor for consumer acceptance of our products, technical innovation and quality control in the design of footwear, apparel, and athletic equipment is also essential to the commercial success of our products. research and development plays a key role in technical innovation. we rely upon specialists in the fields of biomechanics, exercise physiology, engineering, industrial design and related fields, as well as research committees and advisory boards made up of athletes, coaches, trainers, equipment managers, orthopedists, podiatrists and other experts to develop and test cutting edge performance products. while we strive to produce products that help to reduce injury, enhance athletic performance and maximize comfort, if we fail to introduce technical innovation in our products the consumer demand for our products could decline, and if we experience problems with the quality of our products, we may incur substantial expense to remedy the problems. failure to continue to obtain high quality endorsers of our products could harm our business. we establish relationships with professional athletes and sports teams and leagues to evaluate and promote our products, and establish the authenticity of our products with consumers. if certain of our endorsers were to stop using our products contrary to their endorsement agreements, our business could be adversely affected. in addition, actions taken by athletes, teams or leagues associated with our products that harm the reputations of those athletes, teams or leagues could also harm our brand image with consumers and, as a result, could have an adverse effect on our sales and financial condition. in addition, poor performance by our endorsers, a failure to continue to correctly identify promising athletes to use and endorse our products, or a failure to enter into cost effective endorsement arrangements with prominent athletes and sports organizations could adversely affect our brand and result in decreased sales of our products. 11 table of contents failure of our contractors to comply with our code of conduct, local laws, and other standards could harm our business. we contract with hundreds of contractors outside of the united states to manufacture nike brand products, and we impose on those contractors a code of conduct and other environmental, health, and safety standards for the benefit of workers. however, from time to time contractors may not be in compliance with such standards or applicable local law. significant or continuing noncompliance with such standards and laws by one or more contractors could harm our reputation and, as a result, could have an adverse effect on our sales and financial condition. our business is affected by seasonality, which could result in fluctuations in our operating results and stock price. we experience moderate fluctuations in aggregate sales volume during the year. historically, revenues in the first and fourth fiscal quarters have slightly exceeded those in the second and third fiscal quarters. however, the mix of product sales may vary considerably from time to time as a result of changes in seasonal and geographic demand for particular types of footwear, apparel and equipment. in addition, our customers may cancel orders, change delivery schedules or change the mix of products ordered with minimal notice. as a result, we may not be able to accurately predict our quarterly sales. accordingly, our results of operations are likely to fluctuate significantly from period to period. this seasonality, along with other factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions, changes in consumer preferences, weather conditions, availability of import quotas and currency exchange rate fluctuations, could adversely affect our business and cause our results of operations to fluctuate. our operating margins are also sensitive to a number of factors that are beyond our control, including shifts in product sales mix, geographic sales trends, and currency exchange rate fluctuations, all of which we expect to continue. results of operations in any period should not be considered indicative of the results to be expected for any future period. futures orders may not be an accurate indication of our future revenues. we make substantial use of our futures ordering program, which allows retailers to order five to six months in advance of delivery with the commitment that 90 percent of their orders will be delivered within a set period at a fixed price. our futures ordering program allows us to minimize the amount of products we hold in inventory, purchasing costs, the time necessary to fill customer orders, and the risk of non-delivery. we report changes in futures orders in our periodic financial reports. although we believe futures orders are an important indicator of our future revenues, reported futures orders are not necessarily indicative of our expectation of changes in revenues for any future period. this is because the mix of orders can shift between advance/futures and at-once orders. in addition, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, order cancellations, returns, and discounts can cause differences in the comparisons between futures orders and actual revenues. moreover, a significant portion of our revenue is not derived from futures orders, including at-once close-out sales of nike footwear and apparel, wholesale sales of equipment, cole haan, converse, exeter brands group, hurley, nike bauer hockey, nike golf, and retail sales across all brands. our futures ordering program does not prevent excess inventories or inventory shortages, which could result in decreased operating margins and harm to our business. we purchase products from manufacturers outside of our futures ordering program and in advance of customer orders, which we hold in inventory and re-sell to customers. there is a risk that we may be unable to sell excess products that we have ordered from manufacturers. inventory levels in excess of customer demand may result in inventory write-downs, and the sale of excess inventory at discounted prices could significantly impair our brand image and have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. conversely, if we underestimate consumer demand for our products or if our manufacturers fail to supply the products that we require at the time we need them, we may experience inventory shortages. inventory shortages might delay shipments to customers, negatively impact retailer and distributor relationships, and diminish brand loyalty. 12 table of contents the difficulty in forecasting demand also makes it difficult to estimate our future results of operations and financial condition from period to period. a failure to accurately predict the level of demand for our products could adversely affect our net revenues and net income, and we are unlikely to forecast such effects with any certainty in advance. we may be adversely affected by the financial health of our retailers. we extend credit to our customers based on an assessment of a customer financial condition, generally without requiring collateral. to assist in the scheduling of production and the shipping of seasonal products, we offer customers the ability to place orders five to six months ahead of delivery under our futures ordering program. these advance orders may be cancelled, and the risk of cancellation may increase when dealing with financially ailing retailers or retailers struggling with economic uncertainty. in the past, some customers have experienced financial difficulties, which in turn have had an adverse effect on our business. from time to time retailers will be more cautious than usual with orders as a result of weakness in the retail economy. a slowing economy in our key markets could have an adverse effect on the financial health of our customers, which could in turn have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. in addition, sales of our products depend in part on high quality merchandising and an appealing store environment to attract consumers, which requires continuing investments by retailers. retailers who experience financial difficulties may fail to make such investments or delay them, resulting in reduced sales of and orders for our products. consolidation of retailers or concentration of retail market share among a few retailers may increase and concentrate our credit risk, and impair our ability to sell our products. the athletic footwear, apparel, and equipment retail markets in some countries are dominated by a few large athletic footwear, apparel, and equipment retailers with many stores. these significant retailers have been increasing their market share by expanding through acquisitions and construction of additional stores. these situations concentrate our credit risk in a relatively small number of retailers, and, if any of these retailers were to experience a shortage of liquidity, it would increase the risk that their outstanding payables to us may not be paid. in addition, increasing market share concentration among one or a few retailers in a particular country or region increases the risk that if any one of them substantially reduces their purchases of our products, we may be unable to find a sufficient number of other retail outlets for our products to sustain the same level of sales and revenues. failure to adequately protect our intellectual property rights could adversely affect our business. we utilize trademarks on nearly all of our products and believe that having distinctive marks that are readily identifiable is an important factor in creating a market for our goods, in identifying us, and in distinguishing our goods from the goods of others. we consider our nike &reg; and swoosh design &reg; trademarks to be among our most valuable assets and we have registered these trademarks in over 100 countries. in addition, we own many other trademarks that we utilize in marketing our products. we believe that our trademarks, patents, and other intellectual property rights are important to our brand, our success and our competitive position. we periodically discover products that are counterfeit reproductions of our products or that otherwise infringe on our intellectual property rights. if we are unsuccessful in challenging a party products on the basis of trademark or design or utility patent infringement, continued sales of these products could adversely affect our sales and our brand and result in the shift of consumer preference away from our products. the actions we take to establish and protect trademarks, patents, and other intellectual property rights may not be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as violations of proprietary rights. in addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. we may face significant expenses and liability in connection with the protection of our intellectual property rights outside the united states, and if we are unable to successfully protect our rights or resolve intellectual property conflicts with others, our business or financial condition may be adversely affected. 13 table of contents we are subject to periodic litigation and other regulatory proceedings, which could result in unexpected expense of time and resources. we are a defendant from time to time in lawsuits and regulatory actions relating to our business. due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation and regulatory proceedings, we cannot accurately predict the ultimate outcome of any such proceedings. an unfavorable outcome could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, any significant litigation in the future, regardless of its merits, could divert management attention from our operations and result in substantial legal fees. our international operations involve inherent risks which could result in harm to our business. virtually all of our athletic footwear and apparel is manufactured outside of the united states, and the majority of our products are sold outside of the united states. accordingly, we are subject to the risks generally associated with global trade and doing business abroad, which include foreign laws and regulations, varying consumer preferences across geographic regions, political unrest, disruptions or delays in cross-border shipments and changes in economic conditions in countries in which we manufacture or sell products. in addition, disease outbreaks, terrorist acts and military conflict have increased the risks of doing business abroad. these factors, among others, could affect our ability to manufacture products or procure materials, our ability to import products, our ability to sell products in international markets, and our cost of doing business. if any of these or other factors make the conduct of business in a particular country undesirable or impractical, our business could be adversely affected. in addition, many of our imported products are subject to duties, tariffs or quotas that affect the cost and quantity of various types of goods imported into the united states and other countries. any country in which our products are produced or sold may eliminate, adjust or impose new quotas, duties, tariffs, safeguard measures, anti-dumping duties, cargo restrictions to prevent terrorism, restrictions on the transfer of currency, or other charges or restrictions, any of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. currency exchange rate fluctuations could result in higher costs and decreased margins. a majority of our products are sold outside of the united states. as a result, we conduct transactions in various currencies, which increases our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar. our international revenues and expenses generally are derived from sales and operations in foreign currencies, and these revenues and expenses could be affected by currency fluctuations, including amounts recorded in foreign currencies and translated into u.s. dollars for consolidated financial reporting. currency exchange rate fluctuations could also disrupt the business of the independent manufacturers that produce our products by making their purchases of raw materials more expensive and more difficult to finance. foreign currency fluctuations could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we engage in hedging activities to mitigate the impact of foreign currencies on our financial results. see note 16 to our financial statements, risk management and derivatives. our hedging activities are designed to reduce and delay, but not to completely eliminate, the effects of foreign currency fluctuations. factors that could affect the effectiveness of our hedging activities include accuracy of sales forecasts, volatility of currency markets, and the availability of hedging instruments. since the hedging activities are designed to reduce volatility, they not only reduce the negative impact of a stronger u.s. dollar, but they also reduce the positive impact of a weaker u.s. dollar. our future financial results could be significantly affected by the value of the u.s. dollar in relation to the foreign currencies in which we conduct business. the degree to which our financial results are affected for any given time period will depend in part upon our hedging activities. our products are subject to risks associated with overseas sourcing, manufacturing, and financing. the principal materials used in our apparel products natural and synthetic fabrics and threads, plastic and metal hardware, and specialized performance fabrics designed to repel rain, retain heat, or efficiently transport body moisture are available in countries where our manufacturing takes place. the principal materials used in 14 table of contents our footwear products natural and synthetic rubber, plastic compounds, foam cushioning materials, nylon, leather, canvas and polyurethane films are also locally available to manufacturers. nike contractors and suppliers buy raw materials in bulk. there could be a significant disruption in the supply of fabrics or raw materials from current sources or, in the event of a disruption, we might not be able to locate alternative suppliers of materials of comparable quality at an acceptable price, or at all. in addition, we cannot be certain that our unaffiliated manufacturers will be able to fill our orders in a timely manner. if we experience significant increases in demand, or need to replace an existing manufacturer, there can be no assurance that additional supplies of fabrics or raw materials or additional manufacturing capacity will be available when required on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all, or that any supplier or manufacturer would allocate sufficient capacity to us in order to meet our requirements. in addition, even if we are able to expand existing or find new manufacturing or sources of materials, we may encounter delays in production and added costs as a result of the time it takes to train our suppliers and manufacturers in our methods, products, quality control standards, and labor, health and safety standards. any delays, interruption or increased costs in the supply of materials or manufacture of our products could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet retail customer and consumer demand for our products and result in lower revenues and net income both in the short and long term. because independent manufacturers manufacture a majority of our products outside of our principal sales markets, our products must be transported by third parties over large geographic distances. delays in the shipment or delivery of our products due to the availability of transportation, work stoppages, port strikes, infrastructure congestion, or other factors, and costs and delays associated with transitioning between manufacturers, could adversely impact our financial performance. in addition, manufacturing delays or unexpected demand for our products may require us to use faster, but more expensive, transportation methods such as aircraft, which could adversely affect our profit margins. the cost of fuel is a significant component in manufacturing and transportation costs, so increases in the price of petroleum products can adversely affect our profit margins. in addition, sojitz america performs significant import-export financing services for most of the nike brand products sold outside of the united states, europe, middle east, africa and japan, excluding products produced and sold in the same country. any failure of sojitz america to provide these services or any failure of sojitz america banks could disrupt our ability to acquire products from our suppliers and to deliver products to our customers outside of the united states, europe, middle east, africa, and japan. such a disruption could result in cancelled orders that would adversely affect sales and profitability. our success depends on our global distribution facilities. we distribute our products to customers directly from the factory and through distribution centers located throughout the world. our ability to meet customer expectations, manage inventory, complete sales and achieve objectives for operating efficiencies depends on the proper operation of our distribution facilities, the development or expansion of additional distribution capabilities, and the timely performance of services by third parties (including those involved in shipping product to and from our distribution facilities). our distribution facilities could be interrupted by information technology problems and disasters such as earthquakes or fires. any significant failure in our distribution facilities could result in an adverse affect on our business. we maintain business interruption insurance, but it may not adequately protect us from any adverse effects that could be caused by significant disruptions in our distribution facilities. we rely significantly on information technology in our supply chain, and any failure, inadequacy, interruption or security failure of that technology could harm our ability to effectively operate our business. we are heavily dependent on information technology systems across our supply chain, including for design, production, forecasting, ordering, manufacturing, transportation, sales, and distribution. our ability to effectively manage and maintain our inventory and to ship products to customers on a timely basis depends significantly on 15 table of contents the reliability of these supply chain systems. over the last several years, as part of the ongoing initiative to upgrade our worldwide supply chain, we have implemented new systems in all of our geographical regions in which we operate. over the next few years, we will work to continue to enhance the systems and related processes in our global operations. the failure of these systems to operate effectively, problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, or a breach in security of these systems could cause delays in product fulfillment and reduced efficiency of our operations, and it could require significant capital investments to remediate the problem, and may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. our financial results may be adversely affected if substantial investments in businesses and operations fail to produce expected returns. from time to time, we may invest in business infrastructure, acquisitions of new businesses, and expansion of existing businesses, such as our retail operations, which require substantial cash investments and management attention. we believe cost effective investments are essential to business growth and profitability. however, significant investments are subject to typical risks and uncertainties inherent in acquiring or expanding a business. the failure if any significant investment to provide the returns or profitability that we expect could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and divert management attention from more profitable business operations. we depend on key personnel, the loss of whom would harm our business. our future success will depend in part on the continued service of key executive officers and personnel. the loss of the services of any key individuals could harm us. our future success also depends on our ability to identify, attract and retain additional qualified personnel. competition for employees in our industry is intense and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. the sale of a large number of shares held by our chairman could depress the market price of our common stock. philip h. knight, co-founder and chairman of our board of directors, beneficially owns over 90 percent of our class a common stock. if all of his class a common stock were converted into class b common stock, mr. knight would own over 18 percent of our class b common stock. these shares are available for resale, subject to the requirements of the u.s. securities laws. the sale or prospect of the sale of a substantial number of these shares could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. anti-takeover provisions may impair an acquisition of the company or reduce the price of our common stock. there are provisions of our articles of incorporation and oregon law that are intended to protect shareholder interests by providing the board of directors a means to attempt to deny coercive takeover attempts or to negotiate with a potential acquirer in order to obtain more favorable terms. such provisions include a control share acquisition statute, a freezeout statute, two classes of stock that vote separately on certain issues, and the fact that the holders of class a common stock shares elect three-fourths of the board of directors rounded down to the next whole number. however, such provisions could discourage, delay or prevent an unsolicited merger, acquisition or other change in control of our company that some shareholders might believe to be in their best interests, or in which shareholders might receive a premium for their common stock over the prevailing market price. these provisions could also discourage proxy contests for control of the company. we may fail to meet analyst expectations, which could cause the price of our stock to decline. our common stock is traded publicly, and at any given time various securities analysts follow our financial results and issue reports on us. these reports include information about our historical financial results as well as the analysts estimates of our future performance. the analysts estimates are based upon their own opinions and 16 table of contents are often different from our estimates or expectations. if our operating results are below the estimates or expectations of public market analysts and investors, our stock price could decline. in the past, securities class action litigation has been brought against nike and other companies following a decline in the market price of their securities. if our stock price is volatile, we may become involved in this type of litigation in the future. any litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management attention and resources that are needed to successfully run our business. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 42 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in the normal course of business and consistent with established policies and procedures, we employ a variety of financial instruments to manage exposure to fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies and interest rates. it is our policy to utilize these financial instruments only where necessary to finance our business and manage such exposures; we do not enter into these transactions for speculative purposes. we are exposed to foreign currency fluctuation as a result of our international sales, product sourcing and funding activities. our foreign currency risk management objective is to reduce the variability of local entity cash flows as a result of exchange rate movements. we use forward exchange contracts and options to hedge certain anticipated but not yet firmly committed transactions as well as certain firm commitments and the related receivables and payables, including third party and intercompany transactions. we also use forward contracts to hedge our investment in the net assets of certain international subsidiaries to offset foreign currency translation and economic exposures related to our net investment in those subsidiaries. 42 table of contents when we begin hedging exposures, the type and duration of each hedge depends on the nature of the exposure and market conditions. generally, all anticipated and firmly committed transactions that are hedged are to be recognized within twelve to eighteen months, although at may 31, 2008 we had forward contracts hedging anticipated transactions that will be recognized in as many as 34 months. the majority of the contracts expiring in more than twelve months relate to the anticipated purchase of inventory by one of our european subsidiaries. when intercompany loans are hedged, it is typically for their expected duration. hedged transactions are principally denominated in euros, british pounds, and japanese yen. our earnings are also exposed to movements in short and long-term market interest rates. our objective in managing this interest rate exposure is to limit the impact of interest rate changes on earnings and cash flows and to reduce overall borrowing costs. to achieve these objectives, we maintain a mix of commercial paper, bank loans and fixed rate debt of varying maturities and have entered into receive-fixed, pay-variable interest rate swaps. market risk measurement we monitor foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk and related derivatives using a variety of techniques including a review of market value, sensitivity analysis, and value-at-risk ( var ). our market-sensitive derivative and other financial instruments, as defined by the sec, are foreign currency forward contracts, foreign currency option contracts, interest rate swaps, intercompany loans denominated in non-functional currencies, fixed interest rate u.s. dollar denominated debt, and fixed interest rate japanese yen denominated debt. we use var to monitor the foreign exchange risk of our foreign currency forward and foreign currency option derivative instruments only. the var determines the maximum potential one-day loss in the fair value of these foreign exchange rate-sensitive financial instruments. the var model estimates assume normal market conditions and a 95% confidence level. there are various modeling techniques that can be used in the var computation. our computations are based on interrelationships between currencies and interest rates (a variance/co-variance technique). these interrelationships are a function of foreign exchange currency market changes and interest rate changes over the preceding one year period. the value of foreign currency options does not change on a one-to-one basis with changes in the underlying currency rate. we adjusted the potential loss in option value for the estimated sensitivity (the delta and gamma ) to changes in the underlying currency rate. this calculation reflects the impact of foreign currency rate fluctuations on the derivative instruments only, and does not include the impact of such rate fluctuations on non-functional currency transactions (such as anticipated transactions, firm commitments, cash balances, and accounts and loans receivable and payable), including those which are hedged by these instruments. the var model is a risk analysis tool and does not purport to represent actual losses in fair value that we will incur, nor does it consider the potential effect of favorable changes in market rates. it also does not represent the full extent of the possible loss that may occur. actual future gains and losses will differ from those estimated because of changes or differences in market rates and interrelationships, hedging instruments and hedge percentages, timing and other factors. the estimated maximum one-day loss in fair value on our foreign currency sensitive financial instruments, derived using the var model, was $34.9 million and $13.7 million at may 31, 2008 and may 31, 2007, respectively. the increase in var as of may 31, 2008 occurred due to a higher notional value of outstanding foreign currency derivative instruments coupled with increased foreign currency volatility as of may 31, 2008 compared to may 31, 2007. such a hypothetical loss in fair value of our derivatives would be offset by increases in the value of the underlying transactions being hedged. the average monthly change in the fair values of foreign currency forward and foreign currency option derivative instruments was $32.3 million and $36.5 million during fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007, respectively. 43 table of contents details of other market-sensitive financial instruments and derivative financial instruments not included in the var calculation above are provided in the table below. the instruments not included in the var are intercompany loans denominated in non-functional currencies, fixed interest rate japanese yen denominated debt, fixed interest rate u.s. dollar denominated debt and interest rate swaps. for debt obligations, the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates. weighted average interest rates for the fixed rate swapped to floating rate debt reflect the effective interest rates as of may 31, 2008. expected maturity date year ended may 31, 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 thereafter total fair value (in millions, except interest rates) foreign exchange risk euro functional currency intercompany loan u.s. dollar denominated fixed rate principal payments $ 190.0 $ 270.4 $ 460.4 $ 460.4 average interest rate 2.4 % 3.2 % 2.9 % intercompany loan british pound denominated fixed rate principal payments 92.6 118.6 $ 211.2 $ 211.2 average interest rate 5.3 % 6.4 % 5.9 % u.s. dollar functional currency intercompany loan euro denominated fixed rate principal payments $ 656.8 $ 656.8 $ 656.8 average interest rate 1.8 % 1.8 % intercompany loan japanese yen denominated fixed rate principal payments $ 190.7 $ 190.7 $ 190.7 average interest rate 1.2 % 1.2 % japanese yen functional currency japanese yen debt fixed rate principal payments $ 6.3 6.3 6.3 153.4 6.3 47.3 $ 225.9 $ 233.6 average interest rate 3.1 % 3.1 % 3.1 % 3.0 % 2.4 % 2.4 % 2.6 % interest rate risk japanese yen functional currency long-term japanese yen debt fixed rate principal payments $ 6.3 6.3 6.3 153.4 6.3 47.3 $ 225.9 $ 233.6 average interest rate 3.1 % 3.1 % 3.1 % 3.0 % 2.4 % 2.4 % 2.6 % u.s. dollar functional currency long-term u.s. dollar debt fixed rate swapped to floating rate principal payments $ 25.0 40.0 100.0 $ 165.0 $ 167.5 average interest rate 3.4 % 3.2 % 2.7 % 2.9 % long-term u.s. dollar debt fixed rate principal payments $ 50.0 $ 50.0 $ 49.7 average interest rate 4.7 % 4.7 % intercompany loans and related interest amounts eliminate in consolidation. intercompany loans are generally hedged against foreign exchange risk through the use of forward contracts with third parties, as discussed above. the fixed interest rate japanese yen denominated debts were issued by and are accounted for by one of our japanese subsidiaries. accordingly, the monthly re-measurement of these instruments due to changes in foreign exchange rates is recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income upon the consolidation of this subsidiary. 44 table of contents in fiscal 2003 we also entered into an interest rate swap agreement related to a japanese yen denominated intercompany loan with one of our japanese subsidiaries. the japanese subsidiary pays variable interest on the intercompany loan based on 3-month libor plus a spread. under the interest rate swap agreement, the subsidiary pays fixed interest payments at 0.80% and receives variable interest payments based on 3-month libor plus a spread based on a notional amount of 8.0 billion japanese yen. this interest rate swap is not accounted for as a hedge. accordingly, changes in the fair value of the swap are recorded to net income each period. the change in fair value of the swap was not material for the years ended may 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006.risk factors 9 risk factors special note regarding forward-looking statements and analyst reports certain written and oral statements, other than purely historical information, including estimates, projections, statements relating to nike business plans, objectives and expected operating results, and the assumptions upon which those statements are based, made or incorporated by reference from time to time by nike or its representatives in this report, other reports, filings with the securities and exchange commission, press releases, conferences, or otherwise, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended. forward-looking statements include, without limitation, any statement that may predict, forecast, indicate, or imply future results, performance, or achievements, and may contain the words believe, anticipate, expect, estimate, project, will be, will continue, will likely result, or words or phrases of similar meaning. forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties which may cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. the risks and uncertainties are detailed from time to time in reports filed by nike with the securities and exchange commission, including forms 8-k, 10-q, and 10-k, and include, among others, the following: international, national and local general economic and market conditions; the size and growth of the overall athletic footwear, apparel, and equipment markets; intense competition among designers, marketers, distributors and sellers of athletic footwear, apparel, and equipment for consumers and endorsers; demographic changes; changes in consumer preferences; popularity of particular designs, categories of products, and sports; seasonal and geographic demand for nike products; difficulties in anticipating or forecasting changes in consumer preferences, consumer demand for nike products, and the various market factors described above; difficulties in implementing, operating, and maintaining nike increasingly complex information systems and controls, including, without limitation, the systems related to demand and supply planning, and inventory control; interruptions in data and communications systems; fluctuations and difficulty in forecasting operating results, including, without limitation, the fact that advance futures orders may not be indicative of future revenues due to changes in shipment timing, and the changing mix of futures and at-once orders and order cancellations; the ability of nike to sustain, manage or forecast its growth and inventories; the size, timing and mix of purchases of nike products; increases in the cost of materials and energy used to manufacture products, new product development and introduction; the ability to secure and protect trademarks, patents, and other intellectual property; performance and reliability of products; customer service; adverse publicity; the loss of significant customers or suppliers; dependence on distributors; business disruptions; increased costs of freight and transportation to meet delivery deadlines; increases in borrowing costs due to any decline in our debt ratings; changes in business strategy or development plans; general risks associated with doing business outside the united states, including, without limitation, exchange rate fluctuations, import duties, tariffs, quotas, political and economic instability, and terrorism; changes in government regulations; liability and other claims asserted against nike; the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel; and other factors referenced or incorporated by reference in this report and other reports. the risks included here are not exhaustive. other sections of this report may include additional factors which could adversely affect nike business and financial performance. moreover, nike operates in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. new risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible 9 table of contents for management to predict all such risk factors, nor can it assess the impact of all such risk factors on nike business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. investors should also be aware that while nike does, from time to time, communicate with securities analysts, it is against nike policy to disclose to them any material non-public information or other confidential commercial information. accordingly, shareholders should not assume that nike agrees with any statement or report issued by any analyst irrespective of the content of the statement or report. furthermore, nike has a policy against issuing or confirming financial forecasts or projections issued by others. thus, to the extent that reports issued by securities analysts contain any projections, forecasts or opinions, such reports are not the responsibility of nike. our products face intense competition. nike is a consumer products company and the relative popularity of various sports and fitness activities and changing design trends affect the demand for our products. the athletic footwear, apparel and equipment industry is keenly competitive in the united states and on a worldwide basis. we compete internationally with a significant number of athletic and leisure shoe companies, athletic and leisure apparel companies, sports equipment companies, and large companies having diversified lines of athletic and leisure shoes, apparel and equipment. we also compete with other companies for the production capacity of independent manufacturers that produce our products and for import quota capacity. our competitors product offerings, technologies, marketing expenditures (including expenditures for advertising and endorsements), pricing, costs of production, and customer service are areas of intense competition. this, in addition to rapid changes in technology and consumer preferences in the markets for athletic and leisure footwear and apparel, and athletic equipment, constitute significant risk factors in our operations. if we do not adequately and timely anticipate and respond to our competitors, our costs may increase or the consumer demand for our products may decline significantly. if we are unable to anticipate consumer preferences and develop new products, we may not be able to maintain or increase our net revenues and profits. our success depends on our ability to identify, originate and define product trends as well as to anticipate, gauge and react to changing consumer demands in a timely manner. all of our products are subject to changing consumer preferences that cannot be predicted with certainty. our new products may not receive consumer acceptance as consumer preferences could shift rapidly to different types of performance or other sports apparel or away from these types of products altogether, and our future success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and respond to these changes. if we fail to anticipate accurately and respond to trends and shifts in consumer preferences by adjusting the mix of existing product offerings, developing new products, designs, styles and categories, and influencing sports and fitness preferences through aggressive marketing, we could experience lower sales, excess inventories and lower profit margins, any of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we rely on technical innovation and high quality products to compete in the market for our products. although design and aesthetics of our products appear to be the most important factor for consumer acceptance of our products, technical innovation and quality control in the design of footwear, apparel, and athletic equipment is also essential to the commercial success of our products. research and development plays a key role in technical innovation. we rely upon specialists in the fields of biomechanics, exercise physiology, engineering, industrial design and related fields, as well as research committees and advisory boards made up of athletes, coaches, trainers, equipment managers, orthopedists, podiatrists and other experts to develop and test 10 table of contents cutting edge performance products. while we strive to produce products that help to reduce injury, enhance athletic performance and maximize comfort, if we fail to introduce technical innovation in our products the consumer demand for our products could decline, and if we experience problems with the quality of our products, we may incur substantial expense to remedy the problems. failure to continue to obtain high quality endorsers of our products could harm our business. we establish relationships with professional athletes, sports teams and leagues to evaluate, promote, and establish product authenticity with consumers. if certain endorsers were to stop using our products contrary to their endorsement agreements, our business could be adversely affected. in addition, actions taken by athletes, teams or leagues associated with our products that harm the reputations of those athletes, teams or leagues could also harm our brand image with consumers and, as a result, could have an adverse effect on our sales and financial condition. in addition, poor performance by our endorsers, a failure to continue to correctly identify promising athletes to use and endorse our products, or a failure to enter into cost effective endorsement arrangements with prominent athletes and sports organizations could adversely affect our brand and result in decreased sales of our products. failure of our contractors to comply with our code of conduct, local laws, and other standards could harm our business. we contract with hundreds of contractors outside of the united states to manufacture our products, and we impose on those contractors a code of conduct and other environmental, health, and safety standards for the benefit of workers. however, from time to time contractors may not comply with such standards or applicable local law. significant or continuing noncompliance with such standards and laws by one or more contractors could harm our reputation and, as a result, could have an adverse effect on our sales and financial condition. global capital and credit market conditions, and resulting declines in consumer confidence and spending, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. volatility and disruption in the global capital and credit markets in 2008 and 2009 have led to a tightening of business credit and liquidity, a contraction of consumer credit, business failures, higher unemployment, and declines in consumer confidence and spending in the united states and internationally. if global economic and financial market conditions deteriorate or remain weak for an extended period of time, the following factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition: slower consumer spending may result in reduced demand for our products, reduced orders from retailers for our products, order cancellations, lower revenues, increased inventories, and lower gross margins. we may be unable to find suitable investments that are safe, liquid, and provide a reasonable return. this could result in lower interest income or longer investment horizons. disruptions to capital markets or the banking system may also impair the value of investments or bank deposits we currently consider safe or liquid. we may be unable to access financing in the credit and capital markets at reasonable rates in the event we find it desirable to do so. the failure of financial institution counterparties to honor their obligations to us under credit and derivative instruments could jeopardize our ability to rely on and benefit from those instruments. our ability to replace those instruments on the same or similar terms may be limited under poor market conditions. we conduct transactions in various currencies, which increases our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar. continued volatility in the markets and exchange rates for foreign currencies and contracts in foreign currencies could have a significant impact on our reported financial results and condition. 11 table of contents continued volatility in the markets and prices for commodities and raw materials we use in our products and in our supply chain (such as petroleum) could have a material adverse effect on our costs, gross margins, and profitability. if retailers of our products experience declining revenues, or retailers experience difficulty obtaining financing in the capital and credit markets to purchase our products, this could result in reduced orders for our products, order cancellations, inability of retailers to timely meet their payment obligations to us, extended payment terms, higher accounts receivable, reduced cash flows, greater expense associated with collection efforts, and increased bad debt expense. if retailers of our products experience severe financial difficulty, some may become insolvent and cease business operations, which could reduce the availability of our products to consumers. if contract manufacturers of our products or other participants in our supply chain experience difficulty obtaining financing in the capital and credit markets to purchase raw materials or to finance general working capital needs, it may result in delays or non-delivery of shipments of our products. our business is affected by seasonality, which could result in fluctuations in our operating results and stock price. we experience moderate fluctuations in aggregate sales volume during the year. historically, revenues in the first and fourth fiscal quarters have slightly exceeded those in the second and third fiscal quarters. however, the mix of product sales may vary considerably from time to time as a result of changes in seasonal and geographic demand for particular types of footwear, apparel and equipment. in addition, our customers may cancel orders, change delivery schedules or change the mix of products ordered with minimal notice. as a result, we may not be able to accurately predict our quarterly sales. accordingly, our results of operations are likely to fluctuate significantly from period to period. this seasonality, along with other factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions, changes in consumer preferences, weather conditions, availability of import quotas and currency exchange rate fluctuations, could adversely affect our business and cause our results of operations to fluctuate. our operating margins are also sensitive to a number of factors that are beyond our control, including shifts in product sales mix, geographic sales trends, and currency exchange rate fluctuations, all of which we expect to continue. results of operations in any period should not be considered indicative of the results to be expected for any future period. futures orders may not be an accurate indication of our future revenues. we make substantial use of our futures ordering program, which allows retailers to order five to six months in advance of delivery with the commitment that their orders will be delivered within a set period at a fixed price. our futures ordering program allows us to minimize the amount of products we hold in inventory, purchasing costs, the time necessary to fill customer orders, and the risk of non-delivery. we report changes in futures orders in our periodic financial reports. although we believe futures orders are an important indicator of our future revenues, reported futures orders are not necessarily indicative of our expectation of changes in revenues for any future period. this is because the mix of orders can shift between advance/futures and at-once orders. in addition, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, order cancellations, returns, and discounts can cause differences in the comparisons between futures orders and actual revenues. moreover, a significant portion of our revenue is not derived from futures orders, including at-once close-out sales of nike footwear and apparel, wholesale sales of equipment, cole haan, converse, hurley, nike golf and umbro, and retail sales across all brands. our futures ordering program does not prevent excess inventories or inventory shortages, which could result in decreased operating margins and harm to our business. we purchase products from manufacturers outside of our futures ordering program and in advance of customer orders, which we hold in inventory and resell to customers. there is a risk we may be unable to sell 12 table of contents excess products ordered from manufacturers. inventory levels in excess of customer demand may result in inventory write-downs, and the sale of excess inventory at discounted prices could significantly impair our brand image and have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. conversely, if we underestimate consumer demand for our products or if our manufacturers fail to supply products we require at the time we need them, we may experience inventory shortages. inventory shortages might delay shipments to customers, negatively impact retailer and distributor relationships, and diminish brand loyalty. the difficulty in forecasting demand also makes it difficult to estimate our future results of operations and financial condition from period to period. a failure to accurately predict the level of demand for our products could adversely affect our net revenues and net income, and we are unlikely to forecast such effects with any certainty in advance. we may be adversely affected by the financial health of our retailers. we extend credit to our customers based on an assessment of a customer financial condition, generally without requiring collateral. to assist in the scheduling of production and the shipping of seasonal products, we offer customers the ability to place orders five to six months ahead of delivery under our futures ordering program. these advance orders may be cancelled, and the risk of cancellation may increase when dealing with financially ailing retailers or retailers struggling with economic uncertainty. in the past, some customers have experienced financial difficulties, which have had an adverse effect on our business. as a result, retailers may be more cautious than usual with orders as a result of weakness in the retail economy. a slowing economy in our key markets could have an adverse effect on the financial health of our customers, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. in addition, product sales are dependent in part on high quality merchandising and an appealing store environment to attract consumers, which requires continuing investments by retailers. retailers who experience financial difficulties may fail to make such investments or delay them, resulting in lower sales and orders for our products. consolidation of retailers or concentration of retail market share among a few retailers may increase and concentrate our credit risk, and impair our ability to sell our products. the athletic footwear, apparel, and equipment retail markets in some countries are dominated by a few large athletic footwear, apparel, and equipment retailers with many stores. these retailers have in the past increased their market share and may continue to do so in the future by expanding through acquisitions and construction of additional stores. these situations concentrate our credit risk with a relatively small number of retailers, and, if any of these retailers were to experience a shortage of liquidity, it would increase the risk that their outstanding payables to us may not be paid. in addition, increasing market share concentration among one or a few retailers in a particular country or region increases the risk that if any one of them substantially reduces their purchases of our products, we may be unable to find a sufficient number of other retail outlets for our products to sustain the same level of sales and revenues. failure to adequately protect our intellectual property rights could adversely affect our business. we utilize trademarks on nearly all of our products and believe that having distinctive marks that are readily identifiable is an important factor in creating a market for our goods, in identifying us, and in distinguishing our goods from the goods of others. we consider our nike &reg; and swoosh design &reg; trademarks to be among our most valuable assets and we have registered these trademarks in over 150 countries. in addition, we own many other trademarks that we utilize in marketing our products. we believe that our trademarks, patents, and other intellectual property rights are important to our brand, our success and our competitive position. we periodically discover products that are counterfeit reproductions of our products or that otherwise infringe on our intellectual property rights. if we are unsuccessful in challenging a party products on the basis of trademark or design or utility patent infringement, continued sales of these products could adversely affect our sales and our brand and result in the shift of consumer preference away from our products. the actions we take to establish and protect 13 table of contents trademarks, patents, and other intellectual property rights may not be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as violations of proprietary rights. in addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. we may face significant expenses and liability in connection with the protection of our intellectual property rights outside the united states, and if we are unable to successfully protect our rights or resolve intellectual property conflicts with others, our business or financial condition may be adversely affected. we are subject to periodic litigation and other regulatory proceedings, which could result in unexpected expense of time and resources. from time to time we are called upon to defend ourselves against lawsuits and regulatory actions relating to our business. due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation and regulatory proceedings, we cannot accurately predict the ultimate outcome of any such proceedings. an unfavorable outcome could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, any significant litigation in the future, regardless of its merits, could divert management attention from our operations and result in substantial legal fees. our international operations involve inherent risks which could result in harm to our business. virtually all of our athletic footwear and apparel is manufactured outside of the united states, and the majority of our products are sold outside of the united states. accordingly, we are subject to the risks generally associated with global trade and doing business abroad, which include foreign laws and regulations, varying consumer preferences across geographic regions, political unrest, disruptions or delays in cross-border shipments and changes in economic conditions in countries in which we manufacture or sell products. in addition, disease outbreaks, terrorist acts and military conflict have increased the risks of doing business abroad. these factors, among others, could affect our ability to manufacture products or procure materials, our ability to import products, our ability to sell products in international markets, and our cost of doing business. if any of these or other factors make the conduct of business in a particular country undesirable or impractical, our business could be adversely affected. in addition, many of our imported products are subject to duties, tariffs or quotas that affect the cost and quantity of various types of goods imported into the united states and other countries. any country in which our products are produced or sold may eliminate, adjust or impose new quotas, duties, tariffs, safeguard measures, anti-dumping duties, cargo restrictions to prevent terrorism, restrictions on the transfer of currency, or other charges or restrictions, any of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. changes in tax laws and unanticipated tax liabilities could adversely affect our effective income tax rate and profitability. we are subject to income taxes in the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. our effective income tax rate in the future could be adversely affected by a number of factors, including: changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws, the outcome of income tax audits in various jurisdictions around the world, and any repatriation of non-us earnings for which we have not previously provided for u.s. taxes. we regularly assess all of these matters to determine the adequacy of our tax provision, which is subject to significant discretion. recently, the obama administration proposed legislation that would change how u.s. multinational corporations are taxed on their foreign income. if such legislation is enacted, it may have a material adverse impact to our tax rate and in turn, our profitability. 14 table of contents currency exchange rate fluctuations could result in higher costs and decreased margins. a majority of our products are sold outside of the united states. as a result, we conduct transactions in various currencies, which increases our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar. our international revenues and expenses generally are derived from sales and operations in foreign currencies, and these revenues and expenses could be affected by currency fluctuations, including amounts recorded in foreign currencies and translated into u.s. dollars for consolidated financial reporting. currency exchange rate fluctuations could also disrupt the business of the independent manufacturers that produce our products by making their purchases of raw materials more expensive and more difficult to finance. foreign currency fluctuations could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. our hedging activities (s ee note 18, risk management and derivatives on the accompanying note to the consolidated financial statement), which are designed to minimize and delay, but not to completely eliminate, the effects of foreign currency fluctuations may not sufficiently mitigate the impact of foreign currencies on our financial results. factors that could affect the effectiveness of our hedging activities include accuracy of sales forecasts, volatility of currency markets, and the availability of hedging instruments. since the hedging activities are designed to minimize volatility, they not only reduce the negative impact of a stronger u.s. dollar, but they also reduce the positive impact of a weaker u.s. dollar. our future financial results could be significantly affected by the value of the u.s. dollar in relation to the foreign currencies in which we conduct business. the degree to which our financial results are affected for any given time period will depend in part upon our hedging activities. our products are subject to risks associated with overseas sourcing, manufacturing, and financing. the principal materials used in our apparel products natural and synthetic fabrics and threads, plastic and metal hardware, and specialized performance fabrics designed to repel rain, retain heat, or efficiently transport body moisture are available in countries where our manufacturing takes place. the principal materials used in our footwear products natural and synthetic rubber, plastic compounds, foam cushioning materials, nylon, leather, canvas and polyurethane films are also locally available to manufacturers. nike contractors and suppliers buy raw materials in bulk. there could be a significant disruption in the supply of fabrics or raw materials from current sources or, in the event of a disruption, we might not be able to locate alternative suppliers of materials of comparable quality at an acceptable price, or at all. in addition, we cannot be certain that our unaffiliated manufacturers will be able to fill our orders in a timely manner. if we experience significant increases in demand, or need to replace an existing manufacturer, there can be no assurance that additional supplies of fabrics or raw materials or additional manufacturing capacity will be available when required on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all, or that any supplier or manufacturer would allocate sufficient capacity to us in order to meet our requirements. in addition, even if we are able to expand existing or find new manufacturing or sources of materials, we may encounter delays in production and added costs as a result of the time it takes to train suppliers and manufacturers in our methods, products, quality control standards, and labor, health and safety standards. any delays, interruption or increased costs in the supply of materials or manufacture of our products could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet retail customer and consumer demand for our products and result in lower revenues and net income both in the short and long term. because independent manufacturers manufacture a majority of our products outside of our principal sales markets, our products must be transported by third parties over large geographic distances. delays in the shipment or delivery of our products due to the availability of transportation, work stoppages, port strikes, infrastructure congestion, or other factors, and costs and delays associated with consolidating or transitioning between manufacturers, could adversely impact our financial performance. in addition, manufacturing delays or unexpected demand for our products may require us to use faster, but more expensive, transportation methods such as aircraft, which could adversely affect our profit margins. the cost of fuel is a significant component in manufacturing and transportation costs, so increases in the price of petroleum products can adversely affect our profit margins. 15 table of contents in addition, sojitz america performs significant import-export financing services for most of the nike brand products sold outside of the united states, europe, middle east, africa and japan, excluding products produced and sold in the same country. any failure of sojitz america to provide these services or any failure of sojitz america banks could disrupt our ability to acquire products from our suppliers and to deliver products to our customers outside of the united states, europe, middle east, africa, and japan. such a disruption could result in cancelled orders that would adversely affect sales and profitability. our success depends on our global distribution facilities. we distribute our products to customers directly from the factory and through distribution centers located throughout the world. our ability to meet customer expectations, manage inventory, complete sales and achieve objectives for operating efficiencies depends on the proper operation of our distribution facilities, the development or expansion of additional distribution capabilities, and the timely performance of services by third parties (including those involved in shipping product to and from our distribution facilities). our distribution facilities could be interrupted by information technology problems and disasters such as earthquakes or fires. any significant failure in our distribution facilities could result in an adverse affect on our business. we maintain business interruption insurance, but it may not adequately protect us from adverse effects that could be caused by significant disruptions in our distribution facilities. we rely significantly on information technology in our supply chain, and any failure, inadequacy, interruption or security failure of that technology could harm our ability to effectively operate our business. we are heavily dependent on information technology systems across our supply chain, including product design, production, forecasting, ordering, manufacturing, transportation, sales, and distribution. our ability to effectively manage and maintain our inventory and to ship products to customers on a timely basis depends significantly on the reliability of these supply chain systems. over the last several years, as part of the ongoing initiative to upgrade our worldwide supply chain, we have implemented new systems in all of our geographical regions in which we operate. over the next few years, we will work to continue to enhance the systems and related processes in our global operations. the failure of these systems to operate effectively, problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, or a breach in security of these systems could cause delays in product fulfillment and reduced efficiency of our operations, and could require significant capital investments to remediate the problem, and may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. our financial results may be adversely affected if substantial investments in businesses and operations fail to produce expected returns. from time to time, we may invest in business infrastructure, acquisitions of new businesses, and expansion of existing businesses, such as our retail operations, which require substantial cash investments and management attention. we believe cost effective investments are essential to business growth and profitability. however, significant investments are subject to typical risks and uncertainties inherent in acquiring or expanding a business. the failure of any significant investment to provide the returns or profitability we expect could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and divert management attention from more profitable business operations. we depend on key personnel, the loss of whom would harm our business. our future success will depend in part on the continued service of key executive officers and personnel. the loss of the services of any key individual could harm us. our future success also depends on our ability to identify, attract and retain additional qualified personnel. competition for employees in our industry is intense and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. 16 table of contents the sale of a large number of shares held by our chairman could depress the market price of our common stock. philip h. knight, co-founder and chairman of our board of directors, beneficially owns over 96% of our class a common stock. if all of his class a common stock were converted into class b common stock, mr. knight would own over 19% of our class b common stock. these shares are available for resale, subject to the requirements of the u.s. securities laws. the sale or prospect of the sale of a substantial number of these shares could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. anti-takeover provisions may impair an acquisition of the company or reduce the price of our common stock. there are provisions of our articles of incorporation and oregon law that are intended to protect shareholder interests by providing the board of directors a means to attempt to deny coercive takeover attempts or to negotiate with a potential acquirer in order to obtain more favorable terms. such provisions include a control share acquisition statute, a freezeout statute, two classes of stock that vote separately on certain issues, and the fact holders of class a common stock shares elect three-fourths of the board of directors rounded down to the next whole number. however, such provisions could discourage, delay or prevent an unsolicited merger, acquisition or other change in control of our company that some shareholders might believe to be in their best interests or in which shareholders might receive a premium for their common stock over the prevailing market price. these provisions could also discourage proxy contests for control of the company. we may fail to meet analyst expectations, which could cause the price of our stock to decline. our common stock is traded publicly, and at any given time various securities analysts follow our financial results and issue reports on us. these reports include information about our historical financial results as well as the analysts estimates of our future performance. the analysts estimates are based upon their own opinions and are often different from our estimates or expectations. if our operating results are below the estimates or expectations of public market analysts and investors, our stock price could decline. in the past, securities class action litigation has been brought against nike and other companies following a decline in the market price of their securities. if our stock price is volatile, we may become involved in this type of litigation in the future. any litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management attention and resources that are needed to successfully run our business. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 48 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in the normal course of business and consistent with established policies and procedures, we employ a variety of financial instruments to manage exposure to fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies and interest rates. it is our policy to utilize these financial instruments only where necessary to finance our business and manage such exposures; we do not enter into these transactions for speculative purposes. we are exposed to foreign currency fluctuation as a result of our international sales, product sourcing and funding activities. our foreign exchange risk management program is intended to minimize both the positive or negative effects of currency fluctuations on our consolidated results of operations, financial position and cash flows. this also has the effect of delaying the impact of current market rates on our consolidated financial statements dependent upon hedge horizons. we use forward exchange contracts and options to hedge certain 48 table of contents anticipated but not yet firmly committed transactions as well as certain firm commitments and the related receivables and payables, including third party and intercompany transactions. we also use forward contracts to hedge our investment in the net assets of certain international subsidiaries to offset foreign currency translation and economic exposures related to our net investment in those subsidiaries. when we begin hedging exposures, the type and duration of each hedge depends on the nature of the exposure and market conditions. generally, all anticipated and firmly committed transactions that are hedged are to be recognized within twelve to eighteen months, although at may 31, 2009 we had forward contracts hedging anticipated transactions that will be recognized in as many as 23 months. the majority of the contracts expiring in more than twelve months relate to the anticipated purchase of inventory by one of our european subsidiaries. when intercompany loans are hedged, it is typically for their expected duration. hedged transactions are principally denominated in euro, japanese yen and british pound. see section foreign currency exposures and hedging practices under item 7 for additional detail. our earnings are also exposed to movements in short and long-term market interest rates. our objective in managing this interest rate exposure is to limit the impact of interest rate changes on earnings and cash flows and to reduce overall borrowing costs. to achieve these objectives, we maintain a mix of commercial paper, bank loans and fixed rate debt of varying maturities and have entered into receive-fixed, pay-variable interest rate swaps. market risk measurement we monitor foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk and related derivatives using a variety of techniques including a review of market value, sensitivity analysis, and value-at-risk ( var ). our market-sensitive derivative and other financial instruments are foreign currency forward contracts, foreign currency option contracts, interest rate swaps, intercompany loans denominated in non-functional currencies, fixed interest rate u.s. dollar denominated debt, and fixed interest rate japanese yen denominated debt. we use var to monitor the foreign exchange risk of our foreign currency forward and foreign currency option derivative instruments only. the var determines the maximum potential one-day loss in the fair value of these foreign exchange rate-sensitive financial instruments. the var model estimates assume normal market conditions and a 95% confidence level. there are various modeling techniques that can be used in the var computation. our computations are based on interrelationships between currencies and interest rates (a variance/co-variance technique). these interrelationships are a function of foreign exchange currency market changes and interest rate changes over the preceding one year period. the value of foreign currency options does not change on a one-to-one basis with changes in the underlying currency rate. we adjusted the potential loss in option value for the estimated sensitivity (the delta and gamma ) to changes in the underlying currency rate. this calculation reflects the impact of foreign currency rate fluctuations on the derivative instruments only, and does not include the impact of such rate fluctuations on non-functional currency transactions (such as anticipated transactions, firm commitments, cash balances, and accounts and loans receivable and payable), including those which are hedged by these instruments. the var model is a risk analysis tool and does not purport to represent actual losses in fair value that we will incur, nor does it consider the potential effect of favorable changes in market rates. it also does not represent the full extent of the possible loss that may occur. actual future gains and losses will differ from those estimated because of changes or differences in market rates and interrelationships, hedging instruments and hedge percentages, timing and other factors. the estimated maximum one-day loss in fair value on our foreign currency sensitive derivative financial instruments, derived using the var model, was $67.8 million and $34.9 million at may 31, 2009 and may 31, 2008, respectively. the var increased, despite a reduction in the total notional value of our foreign currency derivative instruments, as a result of increased foreign currency volatilities at may 31, 2009 as compared to 49 table of contents may 31, 2008. such a hypothetical loss in fair value of our derivatives would be offset by increases in the value of the underlying transactions being hedged. the average monthly change in the fair values of foreign currency forward and foreign currency option derivative instruments was $207.4 million and $32.3 million during fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008, respectively. the instruments not included in the var are intercompany loans denominated in non-functional currencies, fixed interest rate japanese yen denominated debt, fixed interest rate u.s. dollar denominated debt and interest rate swaps. intercompany loans and related interest amounts are eliminated in consolidation. furthermore, our non-functional currency intercompany loans are substantially hedged against foreign exchange risk through the use of forward contracts, which are included in the var calculation above. we, therefore, consider the interest rate and foreign currency market risks associated with our non-functional currency intercompany loans to be immaterial to our consolidated financial position, results from operations and cash flows. details of third party debt and interest rate swaps are provided in the table below. the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates. weighted average interest rates for the fixed rate swapped to floating rate debt reflect the effective interest rates as of may 31, 2009. expected maturity date year ended may 31, 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 thereafter total fair value (in millions, except interest rates) foreign exchange risk japanese yen functional currency long term japanese yen debt fixed rate principal payments $ 6.9 $ 6.9 $ 167.1 $ 6.9 $ 6.9 $ 44.7 $ 239.4 $ 235.9 average interest rate 2.4 % 2.4 % 3.4 % 2.4 % 2.4 % 2.4 % 2.5 % interest rate risk japanese yen functional currency long-term japanese yen debt fixed rate principal payments $ 6.9 $ 6.9 $ 167.1 $ 6.9 $ 6.9 $ 44.7 $ 239.4 $ 235.9 average interest rate 2.4 % 2.4 % 3.4 % 2.4 % 2.4 % 2.4 % 2.5 % u.s. dollar functional currency long-term u.s. dollar debt fixed rate swapped to floating rate principal payments $ 25.0 $ $ $ 40.0 $ $ 100.0 $ 165.0 $ 169.0 average interest rate 3.1 % 3.1 % 1.6 % 2.2 % long-term u.s. dollar debt fixed rate principal payments $ $ $ $ $ $ 50.0 $ 50.0 $ 51.5 average interest rate 4.7 % 4.7 % the fixed interest rate japanese yen denominated debts were issued by and are accounted for by one of our japanese subsidiaries. accordingly, the monthly re-measurement of these instruments due to changes in foreign exchange rates is recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income upon the consolidation of this subsidiary. in fiscal 2003, we entered into a receive-floating, pay-fixed interest rate swap related to a japanese yen denominated intercompany loan with one of our japanese subsidiaries. this interest rate swap was not designated as a hedge instrument under fas 133. accordingly, changes in the fair value of the swap were recorded to consolidated net income each period. the change in fair value of the swap was not material for the years ended may 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. both the intercompany loan and the related interest rate swap matured during fiscal 2009.risk factors 9 risk factors special note regarding forward-looking statements and analyst reports certain written and oral statements, other than purely historical information, including estimates, projections, statements relating to nike business plans, objectives and expected operating results, and the assumptions upon which those statements are based, made or incorporated by reference from time to time by nike or its representatives in this report, other reports, filings with the securities and exchange commission, press releases, conferences, or otherwise, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended. forward-looking statements include, without limitation, any statement that may predict, forecast, indicate, or imply future results, performance, or achievements, and may contain the words believe , anticipate , expect , estimate , project , will be , will continue , will likely result , or words or phrases of similar meaning. forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties which may cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. the risks and uncertainties are detailed from time to time in reports filed by nike with the securities and exchange commission, including forms 8-k, 10-q, and 10-k, and include, among others, the following: international, national and local general economic and market conditions; the size and 9 table of contents growth of the overall athletic footwear, apparel, and equipment markets; intense competition among designers, marketers, distributors and sellers of athletic footwear, apparel, and equipment for consumers and endorsers; demographic changes; changes in consumer preferences; popularity of particular designs, categories of products, and sports; seasonal and geographic demand for nike products; difficulties in anticipating or forecasting changes in consumer preferences, consumer demand for nike products, and the various market factors described above; difficulties in implementing, operating, and maintaining nike increasingly complex information systems and controls, including, without limitation, the systems related to demand and supply planning, and inventory control; interruptions in data and communications systems; fluctuations and difficulty in forecasting operating results, including, without limitation, the fact that advance futures orders may not be indicative of future revenues due to changes in shipment timing, and the changing mix of futures and at-once orders and order cancellations; the ability of nike to sustain, manage or forecast its growth and inventories; the size, timing and mix of purchases of nike products; increases in the cost of materials and energy used to manufacture products, new product development and introduction; the ability to secure and protect trademarks, patents, and other intellectual property; performance and reliability of products; customer service; adverse publicity; the loss of significant customers or suppliers; dependence on distributors and licensees; business disruptions; increased costs of freight and transportation to meet delivery deadlines; increases in borrowing costs due to any decline in our debt ratings; changes in business strategy or development plans; general risks associated with doing business outside the united states, including, without limitation, exchange rate fluctuations, import duties, tariffs, quotas, political and economic instability, and terrorism; changes in government regulations; the impact of, including business and legal developments relating to, climate change; liability and other claims asserted against nike; the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel; and other factors referenced or incorporated by reference in this report and other reports. the risks included here are not exhaustive. other sections of this report may include additional factors which could adversely affect nike business and financial performance. moreover, nike operates in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. new risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors, nor can it assess the impact of all such risk factors on nike business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. investors should also be aware that while nike does, from time to time, communicate with securities analysts, it is against nike policy to disclose to them any material non-public information or other confidential commercial information. accordingly, shareholders should not assume that nike agrees with any statement or report issued by any analyst irrespective of the content of the statement or report. furthermore, nike has a policy against issuing or confirming financial forecasts or projections issued by others. thus, to the extent that reports issued by securities analysts contain any projections, forecasts or opinions, such reports are not the responsibility of nike. our products face intense competition. nike is a consumer products company and the relative popularity of various sports and fitness activities and changing design trends affect the demand for our products. the athletic footwear, apparel, and equipment industry is keenly competitive in the united states and on a worldwide basis. we compete internationally with a significant number of athletic and leisure shoe companies, athletic and leisure apparel companies, sports equipment companies, and large companies having diversified lines of athletic and leisure shoes, apparel, and equipment. we also compete with other companies for the production capacity of independent manufacturers that produce our products and for import quota capacity. our competitors product offerings, technologies, marketing expenditures (including expenditures for advertising and endorsements), pricing, costs of production, and customer service are areas of intense competition. this, in addition to rapid changes in technology and consumer preferences in the markets for 10 table of contents athletic and leisure footwear and apparel, and athletic equipment, constitute significant risk factors in our operations. if we do not adequately and timely anticipate and respond to our competitors, our costs may increase or the consumer demand for our products may decline significantly. if we are unable to anticipate consumer preferences and develop new products, we may not be able to maintain or increase our net revenues and profits. our success depends on our ability to identify, originate and define product trends as well as to anticipate, gauge and react to changing consumer demands in a timely manner. all of our products are subject to changing consumer preferences that cannot be predicted with certainty. our new products may not receive consumer acceptance as consumer preferences could shift rapidly to different types of performance or other sports apparel or away from these types of products altogether, and our future success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and respond to these changes. if we fail to anticipate accurately and respond to trends and shifts in consumer preferences by adjusting the mix of existing product offerings, developing new products, designs, styles and categories, and influencing sports and fitness preferences through aggressive marketing, we could experience lower sales, excess inventories and lower profit margins, any of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we rely on technical innovation and high quality products to compete in the market for our products. although design and aesthetics of our products appear to be the most important factor for consumer acceptance of our products, technical innovation and quality control in the design of footwear, apparel, and athletic equipment is also essential to the commercial success of our products. research and development plays a key role in technical innovation. we rely upon specialists in the fields of biomechanics, exercise physiology, engineering, industrial design and related fields, as well as research committees and advisory boards made up of athletes, coaches, trainers, equipment managers, orthopedists, podiatrists, and other experts to develop and test cutting edge performance products. while we strive to produce products that help to reduce injury, enhance athletic performance and maximize comfort, if we fail to introduce technical innovation in our products consumer demand for our products could decline, and if we experience problems with the quality of our products, we may incur substantial expense to remedy the problems. failure to continue to obtain high quality endorsers of our products could harm our business. we establish relationships with professional athletes, sports teams and leagues to evaluate, promote, and establish product authenticity with consumers. if certain endorsers were to stop using our products contrary to their endorsement agreements, our business could be adversely affected. in addition, actions taken by athletes, teams or leagues associated with our products that harm the reputations of those athletes, teams or leagues could also harm our brand image with consumers and, as a result, could have an adverse effect on our sales and financial condition. in addition, poor performance by our endorsers, a failure to continue to correctly identify promising athletes to use and endorse our products, or a failure to enter into cost effective endorsement arrangements with prominent athletes and sports organizations could adversely affect our brand and result in decreased sales of our products. failure of our contractors or our licensees contractors to comply with our code of conduct, local laws, and other standards could harm our business. we contract with hundreds of contractors outside of the united states to manufacture our products, and we also have license agreements that permit unaffiliated parties to manufacture or contract to manufacture products using our trademarks. we impose, and require our licensees to impose, on those contractors a code of conduct and other environmental, health, and safety standards for the benefit of workers. however, from time to time contractors may not comply with such standards or applicable local law or our licensees may not require their contractors to comply with such standards or applicable local law. significant or continuing noncompliance with such standards and laws by one or more contractors could harm our reputation and, as a result, could have an adverse effect on our sales and financial condition. 11 table of contents global capital and credit market conditions, and resulting declines in consumer confidence and spending, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. continuing volatility and disruption in the global capital and credit markets have led to a tightening of business credit and liquidity, a contraction of consumer credit, business failures, higher unemployment, and declines in consumer confidence and spending in the united states and internationally. if global economic and financial market conditions deteriorate or remain weak for an extended period of time, the following factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition: slower consumer spending may result in reduced demand for our products, reduced orders from retailers for our products, order cancellations, lower revenues, increased inventories, and lower gross margins. we may be unable to find suitable investments that are safe, liquid, and provide a reasonable return. this could result in lower interest income or longer investment horizons. disruptions to capital markets or the banking system may also impair the value of investments or bank deposits we currently consider safe or liquid. we may be unable to access financing in the credit and capital markets at reasonable rates in the event we find it desirable to do so. the failure of financial institution counterparties to honor their obligations to us under credit and derivative instruments could jeopardize our ability to rely on and benefit from those instruments. our ability to replace those instruments on the same or similar terms may be limited under poor market conditions. we conduct transactions in various currencies, which increase our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar. continued volatility in the markets and exchange rates for foreign currencies and contracts in foreign currencies could have a significant impact on our reported financial results and condition. continued volatility in the markets and prices for commodities and raw materials we use in our products and in our supply chain (such as petroleum) could have a material adverse effect on our costs, gross margins, and profitability. if retailers of our products experience declining revenues, or retailers experience difficulty obtaining financing in the capital and credit markets to purchase our products, this could result in reduced orders for our products, order cancellations, inability of retailers to timely meet their payment obligations to us, extended payment terms, higher accounts receivable, reduced cash flows, greater expense associated with collection efforts, and increased bad debt expense. if retailers of our products experience severe financial difficulty, some may become insolvent and cease business operations, which could reduce the availability of our products to consumers. if contract manufacturers of our products or other participants in our supply chain experience difficulty obtaining financing in the capital and credit markets to purchase raw materials or to finance general working capital needs, it may result in delays or non-delivery of shipments of our products. our business is affected by seasonality, which could result in fluctuations in our operating results and stock price. we experience moderate fluctuations in aggregate sales volume during the year. historically, revenues in the first and fourth fiscal quarters have slightly exceeded those in the second and third fiscal quarters. however, the mix of product sales may vary considerably from time to time as a result of changes in seasonal and geographic demand for particular types of footwear, apparel and equipment. in addition, our customers may cancel orders, change delivery schedules or change the mix of products ordered with minimal notice. as a result, we may not be able to accurately predict our quarterly sales. accordingly, our results of operations are likely to 12 table of contents fluctuate significantly from period to period. this seasonality, along with other factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions, changes in consumer preferences, weather conditions, availability of import quotas and currency exchange rate fluctuations, could adversely affect our business and cause our results of operations to fluctuate. our operating margins are also sensitive to a number of factors that are beyond our control, including shifts in product sales mix, geographic sales trends, and currency exchange rate fluctuations, all of which we expect to continue. results of operations in any period should not be considered indicative of the results to be expected for any future period. futures orders may not be an accurate indication of our future revenues. we make substantial use of our futures ordering program, which allows retailers to order five to six months in advance of delivery with the commitment that their orders will be delivered within a set period of time at a fixed price. our futures ordering program allows us to minimize the amount of products we hold in inventory, purchasing costs, the time necessary to fill customer orders, and the risk of non-delivery. we report changes in futures orders in our periodic financial reports. although we believe futures orders are an important indicator of our future revenues, reported futures orders are not necessarily indicative of our expectation of changes in revenues for any future period. this is because the mix of orders can shift between advance/futures and at-once orders. in addition, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, order cancellations, returns, and discounts can cause differences in the comparisons between futures orders and actual revenues. moreover, a significant portion of our revenue is not derived from futures orders, including at-once close-out sales of nike footwear and apparel, wholesale sales of equipment, cole haan, converse, hurley, nike golf and umbro, and retail sales across all brands. our futures ordering program does not prevent excess inventories or inventory shortages, which could result in decreased operating margins and harm to our business. we purchase products from manufacturers outside of our futures ordering program and in advance of customer orders, which we hold in inventory and resell to customers. there is a risk we may be unable to sell excess products ordered from manufacturers. inventory levels in excess of customer demand may result in inventory write-downs, and the sale of excess inventory at discounted prices could significantly impair our brand image and have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. conversely, if we underestimate consumer demand for our products or if our manufacturers fail to supply products we require at the time we need them, we may experience inventory shortages. inventory shortages might delay shipments to customers, negatively impact retailer and distributor relationships, and diminish brand loyalty. the difficulty in forecasting demand also makes it difficult to estimate our future results of operations and financial condition from period to period. a failure to accurately predict the level of demand for our products could adversely affect our net revenues and net income, and we are unlikely to forecast such effects with any certainty in advance. we may be adversely affected by the financial health of our retailers. we extend credit to our customers based on an assessment of a customer financial condition, generally without requiring collateral. to assist in the scheduling of production and the shipping of seasonal products, we offer customers the ability to place orders five to six months ahead of delivery under our futures ordering program. these advance orders may be cancelled, and the risk of cancellation may increase when dealing with financially ailing retailers or retailers struggling with economic uncertainty. in the past, some customers have experienced financial difficulties, which have had an adverse effect on our business. as a result, retailers may be more cautious than usual with orders as a result of weakness in the retail economy. a slowing economy in our key markets could have an adverse effect on the financial health of our customers, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. in addition, product sales are dependent in part on high quality merchandising and an appealing store environment to attract consumers, which requires continuing investments by retailers. retailers who experience financial difficulties may fail to make such investments or delay them, resulting in lower sales and orders for our products. 13 table of contents consolidation of retailers or concentration of retail market share among a few retailers may increase and concentrate our credit risk, and impair our ability to sell our products. the athletic footwear, apparel, and equipment retail markets in some countries are dominated by a few large athletic footwear, apparel, and equipment retailers with many stores. these retailers have in the past increased their market share and may continue to do so in the future by expanding through acquisitions and construction of additional stores. these situations concentrate our credit risk with a relatively small number of retailers, and, if any of these retailers were to experience a shortage of liquidity, it would increase the risk that their outstanding payables to us may not be paid. in addition, increasing market share concentration among one or a few retailers in a particular country or region increases the risk that if any one of them substantially reduces their purchases of our products, we may be unable to find a sufficient number of other retail outlets for our products to sustain the same level of sales and revenues. failure to adequately protect our intellectual property rights could adversely affect our business. we utilize trademarks on nearly all of our products and believe that having distinctive marks that are readily identifiable is an important factor in creating a market for our goods, in identifying us, and in distinguishing our goods from the goods of others. we consider our nike &reg; and swoosh design &reg; trademarks to be among our most valuable assets and we have registered these trademarks in over 150 countries. in addition, we own many other trademarks that we utilize in marketing our products. we believe that our trademarks, patents, and other intellectual property rights are important to our brand, our success, and our competitive position. we periodically discover products that are counterfeit reproductions of our products or that otherwise infringe on our intellectual property rights. if we are unsuccessful in challenging a party products on the basis of trademark or design or utility patent infringement, continued sales of these products could adversely affect our sales and our brand and result in the shift of consumer preference away from our products. the actions we take to establish and protect trademarks, patents, and other intellectual property rights may not be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as violations of proprietary rights. in addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. we may face significant expenses and liability in connection with the protection of our intellectual property rights outside the united states, and if we are unable to successfully protect our rights or resolve intellectual property conflicts with others, our business or financial condition may be adversely affected. we are subject to periodic litigation and other regulatory proceedings, which could result in unexpected expense of time and resources. from time to time we are called upon to defend ourselves against lawsuits and regulatory actions relating to our business. due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation and regulatory proceedings, we cannot accurately predict the ultimate outcome of any such proceedings. an unfavorable outcome could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, any significant litigation in the future, regardless of its merits, could divert management attention from our operations and result in substantial legal fees. our international operations involve inherent risks which could result in harm to our business. virtually all of our athletic footwear and apparel is manufactured outside of the united states, and the majority of our products are sold outside of the united states. accordingly, we are subject to the risks generally associated with global trade and doing business abroad, which include foreign laws and regulations, varying consumer preferences across geographic regions, political unrest, disruptions or delays in cross-border shipments, and changes in economic conditions in countries in which we manufacture or sell products. in 14 table of contents addition, disease outbreaks, terrorist acts and military conflict have increased the risks of doing business abroad. these factors, among others, could affect our ability to manufacture products or procure materials, our ability to import products, our ability to sell products in international markets, and our cost of doing business. if any of these or other factors make the conduct of business in a particular country undesirable or impractical, our business could be adversely affected. in addition, many of our imported products are subject to duties, tariffs, or quotas that affect the cost and quantity of various types of goods imported into the united states and other countries. any country in which our products are produced or sold may eliminate, adjust or impose new quotas, duties, tariffs, safeguard measures, anti-dumping duties, cargo restrictions to prevent terrorism, restrictions on the transfer of currency, climate change legislation or other charges or restrictions, any of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. changes in tax laws and unanticipated tax liabilities could adversely affect our effective income tax rate and profitability. we are subject to income taxes in the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. our effective income tax rate in the future could be adversely affected by a number of factors, including: changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws, the outcome of income tax audits in various jurisdictions around the world, and any repatriation of non-us earnings for which we have not previously provided for u.s. taxes. we regularly assess all of these matters to determine the adequacy of our tax provision, which is subject to significant discretion. recently proposed legislation in the united states would change how u.s. multinational corporations are taxed on their foreign income. if such legislation is enacted, it may have a material adverse impact to our tax rate and in turn, our profitability. currency exchange rate fluctuations could result in higher costs and decreased margins. a majority of our products are sold outside of the united states. as a result, we conduct transactions in various currencies, which increase our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar. our international revenues and expenses generally are derived from sales and operations in foreign currencies, and these revenues and expenses could be affected by currency fluctuations, including amounts recorded in foreign currencies and translated into u.s. dollars for consolidated financial reporting. currency exchange rate fluctuations could also disrupt the business of the independent manufacturers that produce our products by making their purchases of raw materials more expensive and more difficult to finance. foreign currency fluctuations could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. our hedging activities (see note 18 risk management and derivatives in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements ), which are designed to minimize and delay, but not to completely eliminate, the effects of foreign currency fluctuations may not sufficiently mitigate the impact of foreign currencies on our financial results. factors that could affect the effectiveness of our hedging activities include accuracy of sales forecasts, volatility of currency markets, and the availability of hedging instruments. since the hedging activities are designed to minimize volatility, they not only reduce the negative impact of a stronger u.s. dollar, but they also reduce the positive impact of a weaker u.s. dollar. our future financial results could be significantly affected by the value of the u.s. dollar in relation to the foreign currencies in which we conduct business. the degree to which our financial results are affected for any given time period will depend in part upon our hedging activities. our products are subject to risks associated with overseas sourcing, manufacturing, and financing. the principal materials used in our apparel products natural and synthetic fabrics and threads, plastic and metal hardware, and specialized performance fabrics designed to repel rain, retain heat, or efficiently transport body moisture are available in countries where our manufacturing takes place. the principal materials used in our footwear products natural and synthetic rubber, plastic compounds, foam cushioning materials, nylon, leather, canvas and polyurethane films are also locally available to manufacturers. nike contractors and suppliers buy raw materials in bulk. 15 table of contents there could be a significant disruption in the supply of fabrics or raw materials from current sources or, in the event of a disruption, we might not be able to locate alternative suppliers of materials of comparable quality at an acceptable price, or at all. in addition, we cannot be certain that our unaffiliated manufacturers will be able to fill our orders in a timely manner. if we experience significant increases in demand, or need to replace an existing manufacturer, there can be no assurance that additional supplies of fabrics or raw materials or additional manufacturing capacity will be available when required on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all, or that any supplier or manufacturer would allocate sufficient capacity to us in order to meet our requirements. in addition, even if we are able to expand existing or find new manufacturing or sources of materials, we may encounter delays in production and added costs as a result of the time it takes to train suppliers and manufacturers in our methods, products, quality control standards, and labor, health and safety standards. any delays, interruption or increased costs in the supply of materials or manufacture of our products could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet retail customer and consumer demand for our products and result in lower revenues and net income both in the short and long-term. because independent manufacturers manufacture a majority of our products outside of our principal sales markets, our products must be transported by third parties over large geographic distances. delays in the shipment or delivery of our products due to the availability of transportation, work stoppages, port strikes, infrastructure congestion, or other factors, and costs and delays associated with consolidating or transitioning between manufacturers, could adversely impact our financial performance. in addition, manufacturing delays or unexpected demand for our products may require us to use faster, but more expensive, transportation methods such as aircraft, which could adversely affect our profit margins. the cost of fuel is a significant component in manufacturing and transportation costs, so increases in the price of petroleum products can adversely affect our profit margins. in addition, sojitz america performs significant import-export financing services for most of the nike brand products sold outside of the united states, europe, middle east, africa, and japan, excluding products produced and sold in the same country. any failure of sojitz america to provide these services or any failure of sojitz america banks could disrupt our ability to acquire products from our suppliers and to deliver products to our customers outside of the united states, europe, middle east, africa, and japan. such a disruption could result in cancelled orders that would adversely affect sales and profitability. our success depends on our global distribution facilities. we distribute our products to customers directly from the factory and through distribution centers located throughout the world. our ability to meet customer expectations, manage inventory, complete sales and achieve objectives for operating efficiencies depends on the proper operation of our distribution facilities, the development or expansion of additional distribution capabilities, and the timely performance of services by third parties (including those involved in shipping product to and from our distribution facilities). our distribution facilities could be interrupted by information technology problems and disasters such as earthquakes or fires. any significant failure in our distribution facilities could result in an adverse affect on our business. we maintain business interruption insurance, but it may not adequately protect us from adverse effects that could be caused by significant disruptions in our distribution facilities. we rely significantly on information technology in our supply chain, and any failure, inadequacy, interruption or security failure of that technology could harm our ability to effectively operate our business. we are heavily dependent on information technology systems across our supply chain, including product design, production, forecasting, ordering, manufacturing, transportation, sales, and distribution. our ability to effectively manage and maintain our inventory and to ship products to customers on a timely basis depends significantly on the reliability of these supply chain systems. over the last several years, as part of the ongoing initiative to upgrade our worldwide supply chain, we have implemented new systems in all of our geographical regions in which we operate. over the next few years, we will work to continue to enhance the systems and 16 table of contents related processes in our global operations. the failure of these systems to operate effectively, problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, or a breach in security of these systems could cause delays in product fulfillment and reduced efficiency of our operations, could require significant capital investments to remediate the problem, and may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. our financial results may be adversely affected if substantial investments in businesses and operations fail to produce expected returns. from time to time, we may invest in business infrastructure, acquisitions of new businesses, and expansion of existing businesses, such as our retail operations, which require substantial cash investments and management attention. we believe cost effective investments are essential to business growth and profitability. however, significant investments are subject to typical risks and uncertainties inherent in acquiring or expanding a business. the failure of any significant investment to provide the returns or profitability we expect could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and divert management attention from more profitable business operations. we depend on key personnel, the loss of whom would harm our business. our future success will depend in part on the continued service of key executive officers and personnel. the loss of the services of any key individual could harm us. our future success also depends on our ability to identify, attract and retain additional qualified personnel. competition for employees in our industry is intense and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. the sale of a large number of shares held by our chairman could depress the market price of our common stock. philip h. knight, co-founder and chairman of our board of directors, beneficially owns over 74% of our class a common stock. if all of his class a common stock were converted into class b common stock, mr. knight would own over 14% of our class b common stock. these shares are available for resale, subject to the requirements of the u.s. securities laws. the sale or prospect of the sale of a substantial number of these shares could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. anti-takeover provisions may impair an acquisition of the company or reduce the price of our common stock. there are provisions of our articles of incorporation and oregon law that are intended to protect shareholder interests by providing the board of directors a means to attempt to deny coercive takeover attempts or to negotiate with a potential acquirer in order to obtain more favorable terms. such provisions include a control share acquisition statute, a freezeout statute, two classes of stock that vote separately on certain issues, and the fact that holders of class a common stock elect three-fourths of the board of directors rounded down to the next whole number. however, such provisions could discourage, delay or prevent an unsolicited merger, acquisition or other change in control of our company that some shareholders might believe to be in their best interests or in which shareholders might receive a premium for their common stock over the prevailing market price. these provisions could also discourage proxy contests for control of the company. we may fail to meet analyst expectations, which could cause the price of our stock to decline. our class b common stock is traded publicly, and at any given time various securities analysts follow our financial results and issue reports on us. these reports include information about our historical financial results as well as the analysts estimates of our future performance. the analysts estimates are based upon their own opinions and are often different from our estimates or expectations. if our operating results are below the estimates or expectations of public market analysts and investors, our stock price could decline. in the past, securities class action litigation has been brought against nike and other companies following a decline in the market price of their securities. if our stock price is volatile, we may become involved in this type of litigation in the future. any litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management attention and resources that are needed to successfully run our business. 17 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 51 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in the normal course of business and consistent with established policies and procedures, we employ a variety of financial instruments to manage exposure to fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies and interest rates. it is our policy to utilize these financial instruments only where necessary to finance our business and manage such exposures; we do not enter into these transactions for speculative purposes. we are exposed to foreign currency fluctuation as a result of our international sales, product sourcing and funding activities. our foreign exchange risk management program is intended to minimize both the positive or negative effects of currency fluctuations on our consolidated results of operations, financial position and cash 51 table of contents flows. this also has the effect of delaying the impact of current market rates on our consolidated financial statements dependent upon hedge horizons. we use forward exchange contracts and options to hedge certain anticipated but not yet firmly committed transactions as well as certain firm commitments and the related receivables and payables, including third party and intercompany transactions. we also use forward contracts to hedge our investment in the net assets of certain international subsidiaries to offset foreign currency translation adjustments related to our net investment in those subsidiaries. when we begin hedging exposures, the type and duration of each hedge depends on the nature of the exposure and market conditions. generally, all anticipated and firmly committed transactions that are hedged are to be recognized within 12 to 18 months. the majority of the contracts expiring in more than 12 months relate to the anticipated purchase of inventory. when intercompany loans are hedged, it is typically for their expected duration. hedged transactions are principally denominated in euros, japanese yen and british pounds. see section foreign currency exposures and hedging practices under item 7 for additional detail. our earnings are also exposed to movements in short and long-term market interest rates. our objective in managing this interest rate exposure is to limit the impact of interest rate changes on earnings and cash flows and to reduce overall borrowing costs. to achieve these objectives, we maintain a mix of commercial paper, bank loans and fixed rate debt of varying maturities and have entered into receive-fixed, pay-variable interest rate swaps. market risk measurement we monitor foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk and related derivatives using a variety of techniques including a review of market value, sensitivity analysis, and value-at-risk ( var ). our market-sensitive derivative and other financial instruments are foreign currency forward contracts, foreign currency option contracts, interest rate swaps, intercompany loans denominated in non-functional currencies, fixed interest rate u.s. dollar denominated debt, and fixed interest rate japanese yen denominated debt. we use var to monitor the foreign exchange risk of our foreign currency forward and foreign currency option derivative instruments only. the var determines the maximum potential one-day loss in the fair value of these foreign exchange rate-sensitive financial instruments. the var model estimates assume normal market conditions and a 95% confidence level. there are various modeling techniques that can be used in the var computation. our computations are based on interrelationships between currencies and interest rates (a variance/co-variance technique). these interrelationships are a function of foreign exchange currency market changes and interest rate changes over the preceding one year period. the value of foreign currency options does not change on a one-to-one basis with changes in the underlying currency rate. we adjusted the potential loss in option value for the estimated sensitivity (the delta and gamma ) to changes in the underlying currency rate. this calculation reflects the impact of foreign currency rate fluctuations on the derivative instruments only and does not include the impact of such rate fluctuations on non-functional currency transactions (such as anticipated transactions, firm commitments, cash balances, and accounts and loans receivable and payable), including those which are hedged by these instruments. the var model is a risk analysis tool and does not purport to represent actual losses in fair value that we will incur, nor does it consider the potential effect of favorable changes in market rates. it also does not represent the full extent of the possible loss that may occur. actual future gains and losses will differ from those estimated because of changes or differences in market rates and interrelationships, hedging instruments and hedge percentages, timing and other factors. the estimated maximum one-day loss in fair value on our foreign currency sensitive derivative financial instruments, derived using the var model, was $17 million and $68 million at may 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. the var decreased year-over-year as a result of reduced total notional value of our foreign 52 table of contents currency derivative portfolio combined with decreased foreign currency volatilities at may 31, 2010. such a hypothetical loss in fair value of our derivatives would be offset by increases in the value of the underlying transactions being hedged. the average monthly change in the fair values of foreign currency forward and foreign currency option derivative instruments was $52 million and $207 million during fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2009, respectively. the instruments not included in the var are intercompany loans denominated in non-functional currencies, fixed interest rate japanese yen denominated debt, fixed interest rate u.s. dollar denominated debt and interest rate swaps. intercompany loans and related interest amounts are eliminated in consolidation. furthermore, our non-functional currency intercompany loans are substantially hedged against foreign exchange risk through the use of forward contracts, which are included in the var calculation above. we, therefore, consider the interest rate and foreign currency market risks associated with our non-functional currency intercompany loans to be immaterial to our consolidated financial position, results from operations and cash flows. details of third party debt and interest rate swaps are provided in the table below. the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates. weighted average interest rates for the fixed rate swapped to floating rate debt reflect the effective interest rates as of may 31, 2010. expected maturity date year ending may 31, 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 thereafter total fair value (in millions, except interest rates) foreign exchange risk japanese yen functional currency japanese yen debt fixed rate principal payments $ 7 $ 178 $ 7 $ 7 $ 7 $ 42 $ 248 $ 247 average interest rate 2.4 % 3.4 % 2.4 % 2.4 % 2.4 % 2.4 % 3.1 % interest rate risk japanese yen functional currency long-term japanese yen debt fixed rate principal payments $ 7 $ 178 $ 7 $ 7 $ 7 $ 42 $ 248 $ 247 average interest rate 2.4 % 3.4 % 2.4 % 2.4 % 2.4 % 2.4 % 3.1 % u.s. dollar functional currency long-term u.s. dollar debt fixed rate swapped to floating rate principal payments $ $ $ 40 $ $ $ 100 $ 140 $ 152 average interest rate 0.0 % 0.0 % 1.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.4 % 0.6 % long-term u.s. dollar debt fixed rate principal payments $ $ $ $ 50 $ $ $ 50 $ 54 average interest rate 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 4.7 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 4.7 % the fixed interest rate japanese yen denominated debt instruments were issued by and are accounted for by one of our japanese subsidiaries. accordingly, the monthly translation of these instruments, which varies due to changes in foreign exchange rates, is recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income upon the consolidation of this subsidiary.risk factors 9 risk factors special note regarding forward-looking statements and analyst reports certain written and oral statements, other than purely historical information, including estimates, projections, statements relating to nike business plans, objectives and expected operating results, and the assumptions upon which those statements are based, made or incorporated by reference from time to time by 9 table of contents nike or its representatives in this report, other reports, filings with the securities and exchange commission, press releases, conferences, or otherwise, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended. forward-looking statements include, without limitation, any statement that may predict, forecast, indicate, or imply future results, performance, or achievements, and may contain the words believe , anticipate , expect , estimate , project , will be , will continue , will likely result , or words or phrases of similar meaning. forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties which may cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. the risks and uncertainties are detailed from time to time in reports filed by nike with the securities and exchange commission, including forms 8-k, 10-q, and 10-k, and include, among others, the following: international, national and local general economic and market conditions; the size and growth of the overall athletic footwear, apparel, and equipment markets; intense competition among designers, marketers, distributors and sellers of athletic footwear, apparel, and equipment for consumers and endorsers; demographic changes; changes in consumer preferences; popularity of particular designs, categories of products, and sports; seasonal and geographic demand for nike products; difficulties in anticipating or forecasting changes in consumer preferences, consumer demand for nike products, and the various market factors described above; difficulties in implementing, operating, and maintaining nike increasingly complex information systems and controls, including, without limitation, the systems related to demand and supply planning, and inventory control; interruptions in data and communications systems; fluctuations and difficulty in forecasting operating results, including, without limitation, the fact that advance futures orders may not be indicative of future revenues due to changes in shipment timing, and the changing mix of futures and at-once orders and order cancellations; the ability of nike to sustain, manage or forecast its growth and inventories; the size, timing and mix of purchases of nike products; increases in the cost of materials and energy used to manufacture products, new product development and introduction; the ability to secure and protect trademarks, patents, and other intellectual property; performance and reliability of products; customer service; adverse publicity; the loss of significant customers or suppliers; dependence on distributors and licensees; business disruptions; increased costs of freight and transportation to meet delivery deadlines; increases in borrowing costs due to any decline in our debt ratings; changes in business strategy or development plans; general risks associated with doing business outside the united states, including, without limitation, exchange rate fluctuations, import duties, tariffs, quotas, political and economic instability, and terrorism; changes in government regulations; the impact of, including business and legal developments relating to, climate change; liability and other claims asserted against nike; the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel; and other factors referenced or incorporated by reference in this report and other reports. the risks included here are not exhaustive. other sections of this report may include additional factors which could adversely affect nike business and financial performance. moreover, nike operates in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. new risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors, nor can it assess the impact of all such risk factors on nike business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. investors should also be aware that while nike does, from time to time, communicate with securities analysts, it is against nike policy to disclose to them any material non-public information or other confidential commercial information. accordingly, shareholders should not assume that nike agrees with any statement or report issued by any analyst irrespective of the content of the statement or report. furthermore, nike has a policy against issuing or confirming financial forecasts or projections issued by others. thus, to the extent that reports issued by securities analysts contain any projections, forecasts or opinions, such reports are not the responsibility of nike. our products face intense competition. nike is a consumer products company and the relative popularity of various sports and fitness activities and changing design trends affect the demand for our products. the athletic footwear, apparel, and equipment 10 table of contents industry is keenly competitive in the united states and on a worldwide basis. we compete internationally with a significant number of athletic and leisure shoe companies, athletic and leisure apparel companies, sports equipment companies, and large companies having diversified lines of athletic and leisure shoes, apparel, and equipment. we also compete with other companies for the production capacity of independent manufacturers that produce our products and for import quota capacity. our competitors product offerings, technologies, marketing expenditures (including expenditures for advertising and endorsements), pricing, costs of production, and customer service are areas of intense competition. this, in addition to rapid changes in technology and consumer preferences in the markets for athletic and leisure footwear and apparel, and athletic equipment, constitute significant risk factors in our operations. if we do not adequately and timely anticipate and respond to our competitors, our costs may increase or the consumer demand for our products may decline significantly. if we are unable to anticipate consumer preferences and develop new products, we may not be able to maintain or increase our net revenues and profits. our success depends on our ability to identify, originate and define product trends as well as to anticipate, gauge and react to changing consumer demands in a timely manner. all of our products are subject to changing consumer preferences that cannot be predicted with certainty. our new products may not receive consumer acceptance as consumer preferences could shift rapidly to different types of performance or other sports apparel or away from these types of products altogether, and our future success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and respond to these changes. if we fail to anticipate accurately and respond to trends and shifts in consumer preferences by adjusting the mix of existing product offerings, developing new products, designs, styles and categories, and influencing sports and fitness preferences through aggressive marketing, we could experience lower sales, excess inventories and lower profit margins, any of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we rely on technical innovation and high quality products to compete in the market for our products. although design and aesthetics of our products appear to be the most important factor for consumer acceptance of our products, technical innovation and quality control in the design of footwear, apparel, and athletic equipment is also essential to the commercial success of our products. research and development plays a key role in technical innovation. we rely upon specialists in the fields of biomechanics, exercise physiology, engineering, industrial design and related fields, as well as research committees and advisory boards made up of athletes, coaches, trainers, equipment managers, orthopedists, podiatrists, and other experts to develop and test cutting edge performance products. while we strive to produce products that help to reduce injury, enhance athletic performance and maximize comfort, if we fail to introduce technical innovation in our products consumer demand for our products could decline, and if we experience problems with the quality of our products, we may incur substantial expense to remedy the problems. failure to continue to obtain high quality endorsers of our products could harm our business. we establish relationships with professional athletes, sports teams and leagues to evaluate, promote, and establish product authenticity with consumers. if certain endorsers were to stop using our products contrary to their endorsement agreements, our business could be adversely affected. in addition, actions taken by athletes, teams or leagues associated with our products that harm the reputations of those athletes, teams or leagues could also harm our brand image with consumers and, as a result, could have an adverse effect on our sales and financial condition. in addition, poor performance by our endorsers, a failure to continue to correctly identify promising athletes to use and endorse our products, or a failure to enter into cost effective endorsement arrangements with prominent athletes and sports organizations could adversely affect our brand and result in decreased sales of our products. 11 table of contents failure of our contractors or our licensees contractors to comply with our code of conduct, local laws, and other standards could harm our business. we contract with hundreds of contractors outside of the united states to manufacture our products, and we also have license agreements that permit unaffiliated parties to manufacture or contract to manufacture products using our trademarks. we impose, and require our licensees to impose, on those contractors a code of conduct and other environmental, health, and safety standards for the benefit of workers. we also require these contractors to comply with applicable standards for product safety. however, from time to time contractors may not comply with such standards or applicable local law or our licensees may not require their contractors to comply with such standards or applicable local law. significant or continuing noncompliance with such standards and laws by one or more contractors could harm our reputation or result in a product recall and, as a result, could have an adverse effect on our sales and financial condition. global capital and credit market conditions, and resulting declines in consumer confidence and spending, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. continuing volatility and disruption in the global capital and credit markets have led to a tightening of business credit and liquidity, a contraction of consumer credit, business failures, higher unemployment, and declines in consumer confidence and spending in the united states and internationally. if global economic and financial market conditions deteriorate or remain weak for an extended period of time, the following factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition: slower consumer spending may result in reduced demand for our products, reduced orders from retailers for our products, order cancellations, lower revenues, increased inventories, and lower gross margins. we may be unable to find suitable investments that are safe, liquid, and provide a reasonable return. this could result in lower interest income or longer investment horizons. disruptions to capital markets or the banking system may also impair the value of investments or bank deposits we currently consider safe or liquid. we may be unable to access financing in the credit and capital markets at reasonable rates in the event we find it desirable to do so. the failure of financial institution counterparties to honor their obligations to us under credit and derivative instruments could jeopardize our ability to rely on and benefit from those instruments. our ability to replace those instruments on the same or similar terms may be limited under poor market conditions. we conduct transactions in various currencies, which increase our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar. continued volatility in the markets and exchange rates for foreign currencies and contracts in foreign currencies could have a significant impact on our reported financial results and condition. continued volatility in the markets and prices for commodities and raw materials we use in our products and in our supply chain (such as petroleum) could have a material adverse effect on our costs, gross margins, and profitability. if retailers of our products experience declining revenues, or retailers experience difficulty obtaining financing in the capital and credit markets to purchase our products, this could result in reduced orders for our products, order cancellations, inability of retailers to timely meet their payment obligations to us, extended payment terms, higher accounts receivable, reduced cash flows, greater expense associated with collection efforts, and increased bad debt expense. if retailers of our products experience severe financial difficulty, some may become insolvent and cease business operations, which could reduce the availability of our products to consumers. 12 table of contents if contract manufacturers of our products or other participants in our supply chain experience difficulty obtaining financing in the capital and credit markets to purchase raw materials or to finance general working capital needs, it may result in delays or non-delivery of shipments of our products. our business is affected by seasonality, which could result in fluctuations in our operating results and stock price. we experience moderate fluctuations in aggregate sales volume during the year. historically, revenues in the first and fourth fiscal quarters have slightly exceeded those in the second and third fiscal quarters. however, the mix of product sales may vary considerably from time to time as a result of changes in seasonal and geographic demand for particular types of footwear, apparel and equipment. in addition, our customers may cancel orders, change delivery schedules or change the mix of products ordered with minimal notice. as a result, we may not be able to accurately predict our quarterly sales. accordingly, our results of operations are likely to fluctuate significantly from period to period. this seasonality, along with other factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions, changes in consumer preferences, weather conditions, availability of import quotas and currency exchange rate fluctuations, could adversely affect our business and cause our results of operations to fluctuate. our operating margins are also sensitive to a number of factors that are beyond our control, including manufacturing and transportation costs, shifts in product sales mix, geographic sales trends, and currency exchange rate fluctuations, all of which we expect to continue. results of operations in any period should not be considered indicative of the results to be expected for any future period. futures orders may not be an accurate indication of our future revenues. we make substantial use of our futures ordering program, which allows retailers to order five to six months in advance of delivery with the commitment that their orders will be delivered within a set period of time at a fixed price. our futures ordering program allows us to minimize the amount of products we hold in inventory, purchasing costs, the time necessary to fill customer orders, and the risk of non-delivery. we report changes in futures orders in our periodic financial reports. although we believe futures orders are an important indicator of our future revenues, reported futures orders are not necessarily indicative of our expectation of changes in revenues for any future period. this is because the mix of orders can shift between advance/futures and at-once orders. in addition, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, order cancellations, returns, and discounts can cause differences in the comparisons between futures orders and actual revenues. moreover, a significant portion of our revenue is not derived from futures and advance orders, including at-once and close-out sales of nike brand footwear and apparel, sales of nike brand equipment, sales from our direct to consumer operations, and sales from our other businesses. our futures ordering program does not prevent excess inventories or inventory shortages, which could result in decreased operating margins and harm to our business. we purchase products from manufacturers outside of our futures ordering program and in advance of customer orders, which we hold in inventory and resell to customers. there is a risk we may be unable to sell excess products ordered from manufacturers. inventory levels in excess of customer demand may result in inventory write-downs, and the sale of excess inventory at discounted prices could significantly impair our brand image and have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. conversely, if we underestimate consumer demand for our products or if our manufacturers fail to supply products we require at the time we need them, we may experience inventory shortages. inventory shortages might delay shipments to customers, negatively impact retailer and distributor relationships, and diminish brand loyalty. the difficulty in forecasting demand also makes it difficult to estimate our future results of operations and financial condition from period to period. a failure to accurately predict the level of demand for our products could adversely affect our net revenues and net income, and we are unlikely to forecast such effects with any certainty in advance. 13 table of contents we may be adversely affected by the financial health of our retailers. we extend credit to our customers based on an assessment of a customer financial condition, generally without requiring collateral. to assist in the scheduling of production and the shipping of seasonal products, we offer customers the ability to place orders five to six months ahead of delivery under our futures ordering program. these advance orders may be cancelled, and the risk of cancellation may increase when dealing with financially ailing retailers or retailers struggling with economic uncertainty. in the past, some customers have experienced financial difficulties, which have had an adverse effect on our business. as a result, retailers may be more cautious than usual with orders as a result of weakness in the retail economy. a slowing economy in our key markets could have an adverse effect on the financial health of our customers, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. in addition, product sales are dependent in part on high quality merchandising and an appealing store environment to attract consumers, which requires continuing investments by retailers. retailers who experience financial difficulties may fail to make such investments or delay them, resulting in lower sales and orders for our products. consolidation of retailers or concentration of retail market share among a few retailers may increase and concentrate our credit risk, and impair our ability to sell our products. the athletic footwear, apparel, and equipment retail markets in some countries are dominated by a few large athletic footwear, apparel, and equipment retailers with many stores. these retailers have in the past increased their market share and may continue to do so in the future by expanding through acquisitions and construction of additional stores. these situations concentrate our credit risk with a relatively small number of retailers, and, if any of these retailers were to experience a shortage of liquidity, it would increase the risk that their outstanding payables to us may not be paid. in addition, increasing market share concentration among one or a few retailers in a particular country or region increases the risk that if any one of them substantially reduces their purchases of our products, we may be unable to find a sufficient number of other retail outlets for our products to sustain the same level of sales and revenues. failure to adequately protect our intellectual property rights could adversely affect our business. we utilize trademarks on nearly all of our products and believe that having distinctive marks that are readily identifiable is an important factor in creating a market for our goods, in identifying us, and in distinguishing our goods from the goods of others. we consider our nike &reg; and swoosh design &reg; trademarks to be among our most valuable assets and we have registered these trademarks in over 150 countries. in addition, we own many other trademarks that we utilize in marketing our products. we believe that our trademarks, patents, and other intellectual property rights are important to our brand, our success, and our competitive position. we periodically discover products that are counterfeit reproductions of our products or that otherwise infringe on our intellectual property rights. if we are unsuccessful in challenging a party products on the basis of trademark or design or utility patent infringement, continued sales of these products could adversely affect our sales and our brand and result in the shift of consumer preference away from our products. the actions we take to establish and protect trademarks, patents, and other intellectual property rights may not be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as violations of proprietary rights. in addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. we may face significant expenses and liability in connection with the protection of our intellectual property rights outside the united states, and if we are unable to successfully protect our rights or resolve intellectual property conflicts with others, our business or financial condition may be adversely affected. we are subject to periodic litigation and other regulatory proceedings, which could result in unexpected expense of time and resources. from time to time we are called upon to defend ourselves against lawsuits and regulatory actions relating to our business. due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation and regulatory proceedings, we cannot accurately 14 table of contents predict the ultimate outcome of any such proceedings. an unfavorable outcome could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, any significant litigation in the future, regardless of its merits, could divert management attention from our operations and result in substantial legal fees. our international operations involve inherent risks which could result in harm to our business. virtually all of our athletic footwear and apparel is manufactured outside of the united states, and the majority of our products are sold outside of the united states. accordingly, we are subject to the risks generally associated with global trade and doing business abroad, which include foreign laws and regulations, varying consumer preferences across geographic regions, political unrest, disruptions or delays in cross-border shipments, and changes in economic conditions in countries in which we manufacture or sell products. in addition, disease outbreaks, terrorist acts and military conflict have increased the risks of doing business abroad. these factors, among others, could affect our ability to manufacture products or procure materials, our ability to import products, our ability to sell products in international markets, and our cost of doing business. if any of these or other factors make the conduct of business in a particular country undesirable or impractical, our business could be adversely affected. in addition, many of our imported products are subject to duties, tariffs, or quotas that affect the cost and quantity of various types of goods imported into the united states and other countries. any country in which our products are produced or sold may eliminate, adjust or impose new quotas, duties, tariffs, safeguard measures, anti-dumping duties, cargo restrictions to prevent terrorism, restrictions on the transfer of currency, climate change legislation, product safety regulations or other charges or restrictions, any of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. changes in tax laws and unanticipated tax liabilities could adversely affect our effective income tax rate and profitability. we are subject to income taxes in the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. our effective income tax rate in the future could be adversely affected by a number of factors, including: changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws, the outcome of income tax audits in various jurisdictions around the world, and any repatriation of non-us earnings for which we have not previously provided for u.s. taxes. we regularly assess all of these matters to determine the adequacy of our tax provision, which is subject to significant discretion. currency exchange rate fluctuations could result in higher costs and decreased margins and earnings. a majority of our products are sold outside of the united states. as a result, we conduct transactions in various currencies, which increase our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar. our international revenues and expenses generally are derived from sales and operations in foreign currencies, and these revenues and expenses could be affected by currency fluctuations, including amounts recorded in foreign currencies and translated into u.s. dollars for consolidated financial reporting. currency exchange rate fluctuations could also disrupt the business of the independent manufacturers that produce our products by making their purchases of raw materials more expensive and more difficult to finance. foreign currency fluctuations could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. our hedging activities (see note 17 risk management and derivatives in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements ), which are designed to minimize and delay, but not to completely eliminate, the effects of foreign currency fluctuations may not sufficiently mitigate the impact of foreign currencies on our financial results. factors that could affect the effectiveness of our hedging activities include accuracy of sales forecasts, volatility of currency markets, and the availability of hedging instruments. since the hedging activities are designed to minimize volatility, they not only reduce the negative impact of a stronger u.s. dollar, but they 15 table of contents also reduce the positive impact of a weaker u.s. dollar. our future financial results could be significantly affected by the value of the u.s. dollar in relation to the foreign currencies in which we conduct business. the degree to which our financial results are affected for any given time period will depend in part upon our hedging activities. our products are subject to risks associated with overseas sourcing, manufacturing, and financing. the principal materials used in our apparel products natural and synthetic fabrics and threads, plastic and metal hardware, and specialized performance fabrics designed to repel rain, retain heat, or efficiently transport body moisture are available in countries where our manufacturing takes place. the principal materials used in our footwear products natural and synthetic rubber, plastic compounds, foam cushioning materials, nylon, leather, canvas and polyurethane films are also locally available to manufacturers. nike contractors and suppliers buy raw materials in bulk. there could be a significant disruption in the supply of fabrics or raw materials from current sources or, in the event of a disruption, we might not be able to locate alternative suppliers of materials of comparable quality at an acceptable price, or at all. in addition, we cannot be certain that our unaffiliated manufacturers will be able to fill our orders in a timely manner. if we experience significant increases in demand, or need to replace an existing manufacturer, there can be no assurance that additional supplies of fabrics or raw materials or additional manufacturing capacity will be available when required on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all, or that any supplier or manufacturer would allocate sufficient capacity to us in order to meet our requirements. in addition, even if we are able to expand existing or find new manufacturing or sources of materials, we may encounter delays in production and added costs as a result of the time it takes to train suppliers and manufacturers in our methods, products, quality control standards, and labor, health and safety standards. any delays, interruption or increased costs in the supply of materials or manufacture of our products could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet retail customer and consumer demand for our products and result in lower revenues and net income both in the short and long-term. because independent manufacturers manufacture a majority of our products outside of our principal sales markets, our products must be transported by third parties over large geographic distances. delays in the shipment or delivery of our products due to the availability of transportation, work stoppages, port strikes, infrastructure congestion, or other factors, and costs and delays associated with consolidating or transitioning between manufacturers, could adversely impact our financial performance. in addition, manufacturing delays or unexpected demand for our products may require us to use faster, but more expensive, transportation methods such as aircraft, which could adversely affect our profit margins. the cost of fuel is a significant component in manufacturing and transportation costs, so increases in the price of petroleum products can adversely affect our profit margins. in addition, sojitz america performs significant import-export financing services for most of the nike brand products sold outside of the united states, europe, middle east, africa, and japan, excluding products produced and sold in the same country. any failure of sojitz america to provide these services or any failure of sojitz america banks could disrupt our ability to acquire products from our suppliers and to deliver products to our customers outside of the united states, europe, middle east, africa, and japan. such a disruption could result in cancelled orders that would adversely affect sales and profitability. natural disasters could negatively impact our operating results and financial condition. the march 11, 2011 japanese earthquake and resulting tsunami negatively affected our japanese revenue and profits for the fourth quarter ended may 31, 2011, and we expect those events to continue to adversely affect us during fiscal year 2012. natural disasters such as earthquakes, hurricanes, tsunamis or other adverse weather and climate conditions, whether occurring in the u.s. or abroad, and the consequences and effects thereof, including energy shortages and public health issues, could disrupt our operations, or the operations of our vendors and other suppliers, or result in economic instability that may negatively impact our operating results and financial condition. 16 table of contents on march 11, 2011, japan experienced a significant earthquake and resulting tsunami. the implications from ongoing events and widespread damage to the nation infrastructure, consumer confidence and overall economy remain unclear. our revenues and profits for our japan businesses were negatively impacted during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2011, and although we cannot fully assess the future financial impact of these ongoing events, we do expect our japanese businesses to continue to be adversely impacted throughout fiscal 2012. our success depends on our global distribution facilities. we distribute our products to customers directly from the factory and through distribution centers located throughout the world. our ability to meet customer expectations, manage inventory, complete sales and achieve objectives for operating efficiencies depends on the proper operation of our distribution facilities, the development or expansion of additional distribution capabilities, and the timely performance of services by third parties (including those involved in shipping product to and from our distribution facilities). our distribution facilities could be interrupted by information technology problems and disasters such as earthquakes or fires. any significant failure in our distribution facilities could result in an adverse affect on our business. we maintain business interruption insurance, but it may not adequately protect us from adverse effects that could be caused by significant disruptions in our distribution facilities. we rely significantly on information technology to operate our business, including our supply chain and retail operations, and any failure, inadequacy, interruption or security failure of that technology could harm our reputation or our ability to effectively operate our business. we are heavily dependent on information technology systems across our supply chain, including product design, production, forecasting, ordering, manufacturing, transportation, sales, and distribution. our ability to effectively manage and maintain our inventory and to ship products to customers on a timely basis depends significantly on the reliability of these supply chain systems. over the last several years, as part of the ongoing initiative to upgrade our worldwide supply chain, we have implemented new systems in all of our geographical regions in which we operate. over the next few years, we will work to continue to enhance the systems and related processes in our global operations. the failure of these systems to operate effectively, problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, or a breach in security of these systems could cause delays in product fulfillment and reduced efficiency of our operations, could require significant capital investments to remediate the problem, and may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. hackers and data thieves are increasingly sophisticated and operate large scale and complex automated attacks. any breach of our network may result in the loss of valuable business data, our customers or employees personal information or a disruption of our business, which could give rise to unwanted media attention, damage our customer relationships and reputation and result in lost sales, fines or lawsuits. in addition, we must comply with increasingly complex regulatory standards enacted to protect this business and personal data. an inability to maintain compliance with these regulatory standards could subject us to legal risks. our financial results may be adversely affected if substantial investments in businesses and operations fail to produce expected returns. from time to time, we may invest in business infrastructure, acquisitions of new businesses, and expansion of existing businesses, such as our retail operations, which require substantial cash investments and management attention. we believe cost effective investments are essential to business growth and profitability. however, significant investments are subject to typical risks and uncertainties inherent in acquiring or expanding a business. the failure of any significant investment to provide the returns or profitability we expect could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and divert management attention from more profitable business operations. 17 table of contents we depend on key personnel, the loss of whom would harm our business. our future success will depend in part on the continued service of key executive officers and personnel. the loss of the services of any key individual could harm us. our future success also depends on our ability to identify, attract and retain additional qualified personnel. competition for employees in our industry is intense and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. the sale of a large number of shares held by our chairman could depress the market price of our common stock. philip h. knight, co-founder and chairman of our board of directors, beneficially owns over 74.6% of our class a common stock. if all of his class a common stock were converted into class b common stock, mr. knight would own over 17.8% of our class b common stock. these shares are available for resale, subject to the requirements of the u.s. securities laws. the sale or prospect of the sale of a substantial number of these shares could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. anti-takeover provisions may impair an acquisition of the company or reduce the price of our common stock. there are provisions of our articles of incorporation and oregon law that are intended to protect shareholder interests by providing the board of directors a means to attempt to deny coercive takeover attempts or to negotiate with a potential acquirer in order to obtain more favorable terms. such provisions include a control share acquisition statute, a freezeout statute, two classes of stock that vote separately on certain issues, and the fact that holders of class a common stock elect three-fourths of the board of directors rounded down to the next whole number. however, such provisions could discourage, delay or prevent an unsolicited merger, acquisition or other change in control of our company that some shareholders might believe to be in their best interests or in which shareholders might receive a premium for their common stock over the prevailing market price. these provisions could also discourage proxy contests for control of the company. we may fail to meet analyst expectations, which could cause the price of our stock to decline. our class b common stock is traded publicly, and at any given time various securities analysts follow our financial results and issue reports on us. these reports include information about our historical financial results as well as the analysts estimates of our future performance. the analysts estimates are based upon their own opinions and are often different from our estimates or expectations. if our operating results are below the estimates or expectations of public market analysts and investors, our stock price could decline. in the past, securities class action litigation has been brought against nike and other companies following a decline in the market price of their securities. if our stock price is volatile, we may become involved in this type of litigation in the future. any litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management attention and resources that are needed to successfully run our business. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 51 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in the normal course of business and consistent with established policies and procedures, we employ a variety of financial instruments to manage exposure to fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies and interest rates. it is our policy to utilize these financial instruments only where necessary to finance our business and manage such exposures; we do not enter into these transactions for speculative purposes. we are exposed to foreign currency fluctuations, primarily as a result of our international sales, product sourcing and funding activities. our foreign exchange risk management program is intended to minimize both the positive or negative effects of currency fluctuations on our consolidated results of operations, financial position and cash flows. this also has the effect of delaying the impact of current market rates on our consolidated financial statements dependent upon hedge horizons. we use forward exchange contracts and options to hedge certain anticipated but not yet firmly committed transactions as well as certain firm commitments and the related receivables and payables, including third party and intercompany transactions. we also use forward contracts to hedge our investment in the net assets of certain international subsidiaries to offset foreign currency translation adjustments related to our net investment in those subsidiaries. when we begin hedging exposures, the type and duration of each hedge depends on the nature of the exposure and market conditions. generally, all anticipated and firmly committed transactions that are hedged are to be recognized within 12 to 18 months. the majority of the contracts expiring in more than 12 months relate to the anticipated purchase of inventory. when intercompany loans are hedged, it is typically for their expected duration. hedged transactions are principally denominated in euros, japanese yen and british pounds. see section foreign currency exposures and hedging practices under item 7 for additional detail. our earnings are also exposed to movements in short and long-term market interest rates. our objective in managing this interest rate exposure is to limit the impact of interest rate changes on earnings and cash flows and to reduce overall borrowing costs. to achieve these objectives, we maintain a mix of commercial paper, bank loans and fixed rate debt of varying maturities and have entered into receive-fixed, pay-variable interest rate swaps. market risk measurement we monitor foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk and related derivatives using a variety of techniques including a review of market value, sensitivity analysis, and value-at-risk ( var ). our market-sensitive derivative and other financial instruments are foreign currency forward contracts, foreign currency option contracts, interest rate swaps, intercompany loans denominated in non-functional currencies, fixed interest rate u.s. dollar denominated debt, and fixed interest rate japanese yen denominated debt. we use var to monitor the foreign exchange risk of our foreign currency forward and foreign currency option derivative instruments only. the var determines the maximum potential one-day loss in the fair value of these foreign exchange rate-sensitive financial instruments. the var model estimates assume normal market conditions and a 95% confidence level. there are various modeling techniques that can be used in the var computation. our computations are based on interrelationships between currencies and interest rates (a variance/co-variance technique). these interrelationships are a function of foreign exchange currency market changes 51 table of contents and interest rate changes over the preceding one year period. the value of foreign currency options does not change on a one-to-one basis with changes in the underlying currency rate. we adjusted the potential loss in option value for the estimated sensitivity (the delta and gamma ) to changes in the underlying currency rate. this calculation reflects the impact of foreign currency rate fluctuations on the derivative instruments only and does not include the impact of such rate fluctuations on non-functional currency transactions (such as anticipated transactions, firm commitments, cash balances, and accounts and loans receivable and payable), including those which are hedged by these instruments. the var model is a risk analysis tool and does not purport to represent actual losses in fair value that we will incur, nor does it consider the potential effect of favorable changes in market rates. it also does not represent the full extent of the possible loss that may occur. actual future gains and losses will differ from those estimated because of changes or differences in market rates and interrelationships, hedging instruments and hedge percentages, timing and other factors. the estimated maximum one-day loss in fair value on our foreign currency sensitive derivative financial instruments, derived using the var model, was $33 million and $17 million at may 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. the var increased year-over-year primarily as a result of increased foreign currency volatilities at may 31, 2011. such a hypothetical loss in fair value of our derivatives would be offset by increases in the value of the underlying transactions being hedged. the average monthly change in the fair values of foreign currency forward and foreign currency option derivative instruments was $79 million and $52 million during fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2010, respectively. the instruments not included in the var are intercompany loans denominated in non-functional currencies, fixed interest rate japanese yen denominated debt, fixed interest rate u.s. dollar denominated debt and interest rate swaps. intercompany loans and related interest amounts are eliminated in consolidation. furthermore, our non-functional currency intercompany loans are substantially hedged against foreign exchange risk through the use of forward contracts, which are included in the var calculation above. we, therefore, consider the interest rate and foreign currency market risks associated with our non-functional currency intercompany loans to be immaterial to our consolidated financial position, results from operations and cash flows. 52 table of contents details of third party debt and interest rate swaps are provided in the table below. the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates. weighted average interest rates for the fixed rate swapped to floating rate debt reflect the effective interest rates as of may 31, 2011. expected maturity date year ending may 31, 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 thereafter total fair value (in millions, except interest rates) foreign exchange risk japanese yen functional currency japanese yen debt fixed rate principal payments $ 200 $ 8 $ 8 $ 8 $ 8 $ 37 $ 269 $ 275 average interest rate 3.4 % 2.4 % 2.4 % 2.4 % 2.4 % 2.4 % 3.0 % interest rate risk japanese yen functional currency long-term japanese yen debt fixed rate principal payments $ 200 $ 8 $ 8 $ 8 $ 8 $ 37 $ 269 $ 275 average interest rate 3.4 % 2.4 % 2.4 % 2.4 % 2.4 % 2.4 % 2.0 % u.s. dollar functional currency long-term u.s. dollar debt fixed rate swapped to floating rate principal payments $ $ 40 $ $ $ 101 $ $ 141 $ 153 average interest rate 0.0 % 0.9 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.4 % 0.0 % 0.5 % long-term u.s. dollar debt fixed rate principal payments $ $ $ 50 $ $ $ $ 50 $ 54 average interest rate 0.0 % 0.0 % 4.7 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 4.7 % the fixed interest rate japanese yen denominated debt instruments were issued by and are accounted for by one of our japanese subsidiaries. accordingly, the monthly translation of these instruments, which varies due to changes in foreign exchange rates, is recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income upon the consolidation of this subsidiary.risk factors 7 risk factors special note regarding forward-looking statements and analyst reports certain written and oral statements, other than purely historical information, including estimates, projections, statements relating to nike business plans, objectives and expected operating results, and the assumptions upon which those statements are based, made or incorporated by reference from time to time by nike or its representatives in this report, other reports, filings with the securities and exchange commission, press releases, conferences, or otherwise, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended. forward-looking statements include, without limitation, any statement that may predict, forecast, indicate, or imply future results, performance, or achievements, and may contain the words believe , anticipate , expect , estimate , project , will be , will continue , will likely result , or words or phrases of similar meaning. forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties which may cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. the risks and uncertainties are detailed from time to time in reports filed by nike with the securities and exchange commission, including forms 8-k, 10-q, and 10-k, and include, among others, the following: international, national and local general economic and market conditions; the size and growth of the overall athletic footwear, apparel, and equipment markets; intense competition among designers, marketers, distributors and sellers of athletic footwear, apparel, and equipment for consumers and endorsers; demographic changes; changes in consumer preferences; popularity of particular designs, categories of products, and sports; seasonal and geographic demand for nike products; difficulties in anticipating or forecasting changes in consumer preferences, consumer demand for nike products, and the various market factors described above; difficulties in implementing, operating, and maintaining nike increasingly complex information systems and controls, including, without limitation, the systems related to demand and supply planning, and inventory control; interruptions in data and information technology systems; data security; fluctuations and difficulty in forecasting operating results, including, without limitation, the fact that advance futures orders may not be indicative of future revenues due to changes in shipment timing, and the changing mix of futures and at-once orders and order cancellations; the ability of nike to sustain, manage or forecast its growth and inventories; the size, timing and mix of purchases of nike products; increases in the cost of materials and energy used to manufacture products, new product development and introduction; the ability to secure and protect trademarks, patents, and other intellectual property; performance and reliability of products; customer service; adverse publicity; the loss of significant customers or suppliers; dependence on distributors and licensees; business disruptions; increased costs of freight and transportation to meet delivery deadlines; increases in borrowing costs due to any decline in our debt ratings; changes in business strategy or development plans; general risks associated with doing business outside the united states, including, without limitation, exchange rate fluctuations, import duties, tariffs, quotas, political and economic instability, and terrorism; changes in government regulations; the impact of, including business and legal developments relating to, climate change; liability and other claims asserted against nike; the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel; the effects of our decision to divest of the cole haan and umbro businesses; and other factors referenced or incorporated by reference in this report and other reports. the risks included here are not exhaustive. other sections of this report may include additional factors which could adversely affect nike business and financial performance. moreover, nike operates in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. new risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors, nor can it assess the impact of all such risk factors on nike business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. investors should also be aware that while nike does, from time to time, communicate with securities analysts, it is against nike policy to disclose to them any material non-public information or other confidential commercial information. accordingly, shareholders should not assume that nike agrees with any statement or report issued by any analyst irrespective of the content of the statement or report. furthermore, nike has a policy against issuing or confirming financial forecasts or projections issued by others. thus, to the extent that reports issued by securities analysts contain any projections, forecasts or opinions, such reports are not the responsibility of nike. our products face intense competition. nike is a consumer products company and the relative popularity of various sports and fitness activities and changing design trends affect the demand for our products. the athletic footwear, apparel, and equipment industry is keenly competitive in the united states and on a worldwide basis. we compete internationally with a significant number of athletic and leisure shoe companies, athletic and leisure apparel companies, sports equipment companies, and large companies having diversified lines of athletic and leisure shoes, apparel, and equipment. we also compete with other companies for the production capacity of independent manufacturers that produce our products and for import quota capacity. our competitors product offerings, technologies, marketing expenditures (including expenditures for advertising and endorsements), pricing, costs of production, and customer service are areas of intense competition. this, in addition to rapid changes in technology and consumer preferences in the markets for athletic and leisure footwear and apparel, and athletic equipment, constitute significant risk factors in our operations. if we do not adequately and timely anticipate and respond to our competitors, our costs may increase or the consumer demand for our products may decline significantly. failure to maintain our reputation and brand image could negatively impact our business. our iconic brands have worldwide recognition, and our success depends on our ability to maintain and enhance our brand image and reputation. maintaining, promoting and growing our brands will depend on our design and marketing efforts, including advertising and consumer campaigns, as well as product innovation. we could be adversely impacted if we fail to achieve any of these objectives or if the reputation or image of any of our brands is tarnished or receives negative publicity. in addition, adverse publicity about regulatory or legal action against us could damage our reputation and brand image, undermine our customers confidence in us and reduce long-term demand for our products, even if the regulatory or legal action is unfounded or not material to our operations. in addition, our success in maintaining, extending and expanding our brand image depends on our ability to adapt to a rapidly changing media environment, including our increasing reliance on social media and online dissemination of advertising campaigns. negative posts or comments about us on social networking web sites could seriously damage our reputation and brand image. if we do not maintain, extend and expand our brand image, then our product sales, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. if we are unable to anticipate consumer preferences and develop new products, we may not be able to maintain or increase our net revenues and profits. our success depends on our ability to identify, originate and define product trends as well as to anticipate, gauge and react to changing consumer demands in a timely manner. all of our products are subject to changing consumer preferences that cannot be predicted with certainty. our new products may not receive consumer acceptance as consumer preferences could shift rapidly to different types of performance or other sports apparel or away from these types of products altogether, and our future success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and respond to these changes. if 7 table of contents we fail to anticipate accurately and respond to trends and shifts in consumer preferences by adjusting the mix of existing product offerings, developing new products, designs, styles and categories, and influencing sports and fitness preferences through aggressive marketing, we could experience lower sales, excess inventories and lower profit margins, any of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. in addition, we market our products globally through a diverse spectrum of advertising and promotional programs and campaigns, including social media and online advertising. if we do not successfully market our products or if advertising and promotional costs increase, these factors could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. we rely on technical innovation and high quality products to compete in the market for our products. technical innovation and quality control in the design and manufacturing process of footwear, apparel, and athletic equipment is essential to the commercial success of our products. research and development plays a key role in technical innovation. we rely upon specialists in the fields of biomechanics, exercise physiology, engineering, industrial design and related fields, as well as research committees and advisory boards made up of athletes, coaches, trainers, equipment managers, orthopedists, podiatrists, and other experts to develop and test cutting edge performance products. while we strive to produce products that help to reduce injury, enhance athletic performance and maximize comfort, if we fail to introduce technical innovation in our products, consumer demand for our products could decline, and if we experience problems with the quality of our products, we may incur substantial expense to remedy the problems. failure to continue to obtain high quality endorsers of our products could harm our business. we establish relationships with professional athletes, sports teams and leagues to evaluate, promote, and establish product authenticity with consumers. if certain endorsers were to stop using our products contrary to their endorsement agreements, our business could be adversely affected. in addition, actions taken by athletes, teams or leagues associated with our products that harm the reputations of those athletes, teams or leagues could also harm our brand image with consumers and, as a result, could have an adverse effect on our sales and financial condition. in addition, poor performance by our endorsers, a failure to continue to correctly identify promising athletes to use and endorse our products, or a failure to enter into cost effective endorsement arrangements with prominent athletes and sports organizations could adversely affect our brand and result in decreased sales of our products. failure of our contractors or our licensees contractors to comply with our code of conduct, local laws, and other standards could harm our business. we work with hundreds of contractors outside of the united states to manufacture our products, and we also have license agreements that permit unaffiliated parties to manufacture or contract to manufacture products using our trademarks. we impose, and require our licensees to impose, on those contractors a code of conduct and other environmental, health, and safety standards for the benefit of workers. we also require these contractors to comply with applicable standards for product safety. however, from time to time contractors may not comply with such standards or applicable local law or our licensees may not require their contractors to comply with such standards or applicable local law. significant or continuing noncompliance with such standards and laws by one or more contractors could harm our reputation or result in a product recall and, as a result, could have an adverse effect on our sales and financial condition. global capital and credit market conditions, and resulting declines in consumer confidence and spending, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. the uncertain state of the global economy continues to impact businesses around the world. the current political and economic global environment has resulted in continued economic unpredictability, particularly in europe where there are concerns regarding the increased debt levels of certain countries and their ability to meet future financial obligations, as well as the overall stability of the euro currency. continuing volatility and disruption in the global capital and credit markets have led to a tightening of business credit and liquidity, a contraction of consumer credit, business failures, higher unemployment, and declines in consumer confidence and spending in many parts of the world. if global economic and financial market conditions deteriorate or remain weak for an extended period of time, the following factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition: slower consumer spending may result in reduced demand for our products, reduced orders from retailers for our products, order cancellations, lower revenues, increased inventories, and lower gross margins. we may be unable to find suitable investments that are safe, liquid, and provide a reasonable return. this could result in lower interest income or longer investment horizons. disruptions to capital markets or the banking system may also impair the value of investments or bank deposits we currently consider safe or liquid. we may be unable to access financing in the credit and capital markets at reasonable rates in the event we find it desirable to do so. the failure of financial institution counterparties to honor their obligations to us under credit and derivative instruments could jeopardize our ability to rely on and benefit from those instruments. our ability to replace those instruments on the same or similar terms may be limited under poor market conditions. we conduct transactions in various currencies, which increase our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar. continued volatility in the markets and exchange rates for foreign currencies and contracts in foreign currencies could have a significant impact on our reported financial results and condition. continued volatility and availability in the markets and prices for commodities and raw materials we use in our products and in our supply chain (such as petroleum) could have a material adverse effect on our costs, gross margins, and profitability. if retailers of our products experience declining revenues, or retailers experience difficulty obtaining financing in the capital and credit markets to purchase our products, this could result in reduced orders for our products, order cancellations, inability of retailers to timely meet their payment obligations to us, extended payment terms, higher accounts receivable, reduced cash flows, greater expense associated with collection efforts, and increased bad debt expense. if retailers of our products experience severe financial difficulty, some may become insolvent and cease business operations, which could reduce the availability of our products to consumers. if contract manufacturers of our products or other participants in our supply chain experience difficulty obtaining financing in the capital and credit markets to purchase raw materials or to finance general working capital needs, it may result in delays or non-delivery of shipments of our products. our business is affected by seasonality, which could result in fluctuations in our operating results and stock price. we experience moderate fluctuations in aggregate sales volume during the year. historically, revenues in the first and fourth fiscal quarters have slightly exceeded those in the second and third fiscal quarters. however, the mix of product sales may vary considerably from time to time as a result of changes in seasonal and geographic demand for particular types of footwear, apparel and equipment. in addition, our customers may cancel orders, change delivery schedules or change the mix of products ordered with minimal notice. as a result, we may not be able to accurately predict our quarterly sales. accordingly, our results of operations are likely to fluctuate significantly from period to period. this seasonality, along with other factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions, changes in consumer 8 table of contents preferences, weather conditions, availability of import quotas and currency exchange rate fluctuations, could adversely affect our business and cause our results of operations to fluctuate. our operating margins are also sensitive to a number of factors that are beyond our control, including manufacturing and transportation costs, shifts in product sales mix, geographic sales trends, and currency exchange rate fluctuations, all of which we expect to continue. results of operations in any period should not be considered indicative of the results to be expected for any future period. futures orders may not be an accurate indication of our future revenues. we make substantial use of our futures ordering program, which allows retailers to order five to six months in advance of delivery with the commitment that their orders will be delivered within a set period of time at a fixed price. our futures ordering program allows us to minimize the amount of products we hold in inventory, purchasing costs, the time necessary to fill customer orders, and the risk of non-delivery. we report changes in futures orders in our periodic financial reports. although we believe futures orders are an important indicator of our future revenues, reported futures orders are not necessarily indicative of our expectation of changes in revenues for any future period. this is because the mix of orders can shift between futures and at-once orders. in addition, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, order cancellations, shipping timing, returns, and discounts can cause differences in the comparisons between futures orders and actual revenues. moreover, a significant portion of our revenue is not derived from futures orders, including at-once and close-out sales of nike brand footwear and apparel, sales of nike brand equipment, sales from our direct to consumer operations, and sales from our other businesses. our futures ordering program does not prevent excess inventories or inventory shortages, which could result in decreased operating margins and harm to our business. we purchase products from manufacturers outside of our futures ordering program and in advance of customer orders, which we hold in inventory and resell to customers. there is a risk we may be unable to sell excess products ordered from manufacturers. inventory levels in excess of customer demand may result in inventory write-downs, and the sale of excess inventory at discounted prices could significantly impair our brand image and have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. conversely, if we underestimate consumer demand for our products or if our manufacturers fail to supply products we require at the time we need them, we may experience inventory shortages. inventory shortages might delay shipments to customers, negatively impact retailer and distributor relationships, and diminish brand loyalty. the difficulty in forecasting demand also makes it difficult to estimate our future results of operations and financial condition from period to period. a failure to accurately predict the level of demand for our products could adversely affect our net revenues and net income, and we are unlikely to forecast such effects with any certainty in advance. we may be adversely affected by the financial health of our retailers. we extend credit to our customers based on an assessment of a customer financial condition, generally without requiring collateral. to assist in the scheduling of production and the shipping of seasonal products, we offer customers the ability to place orders five to six months ahead of delivery under our futures ordering program. these advance orders may be cancelled, and the risk of cancellation may increase when dealing with financially ailing retailers or retailers struggling with economic uncertainty. in the past, some customers have experienced financial difficulties, which have had an adverse effect on our business. as a result, retailers may be more cautious than usual with orders as a result of weakness in the retail economy. a slowing economy in our key markets could have an adverse effect on the financial health of our customers, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. in addition, product sales are dependent in part on high quality merchandising and an appealing store environment to attract consumers, which requires continuing investments by retailers. retailers who experience financial difficulties may fail to make such investments or delay them, resulting in lower sales and orders for our products. consolidation of retailers or concentration of retail market share among a few retailers may increase and concentrate our credit risk, and impair our ability to sell our products. the athletic footwear, apparel, and equipment retail markets in some countries are dominated by a few large athletic footwear, apparel, and equipment retailers with many stores. these retailers have in the past increased their market share and may continue to do so in the future by expanding through acquisitions and construction of additional stores. these situations concentrate our credit risk with a relatively small number of retailers, and, if any of these retailers were to experience a shortage of liquidity, it would increase the risk that their outstanding payables to us may not be paid. in addition, increasing market share concentration among one or a few retailers in a particular country or region increases the risk that if any one of them substantially reduces their purchases of our products, we may be unable to find a sufficient number of other retail outlets for our products to sustain the same level of sales and revenues. failure to adequately protect our intellectual property rights could adversely affect our business. we utilize trademarks on nearly all of our products and believe that having distinctive marks that are readily identifiable is an important factor in creating a market for our goods, in identifying us, and in distinguishing our goods from the goods of others. we consider our nike &reg; and swoosh design &reg; trademarks to be among our most valuable assets and we have registered these trademarks in almost 150 jurisdictions. in addition, we own many other trademarks that we utilize in marketing our products. we believe that our trademarks, patents, and other intellectual property rights are important to our brand, our success, and our competitive position. we periodically discover products that are counterfeit reproductions of our products or that otherwise infringe on our intellectual property rights. if we are unsuccessful in challenging a party products on the basis of trademark or design or utility patent infringement, continued sales of these products could adversely affect our sales and our brand and result in the shift of consumer preference away from our products. the actions we take to establish and protect trademarks, patents, and other intellectual property rights may not be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as violations of proprietary rights. we may be subject to liability if third parties successfully claim that we infringe their trademarks, patents, or other intellectual property rights. defending infringement claims could be expensive and time-consuming and might result in our entering into costly license agreements. we also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development and sale of certain products. in addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. we may face significant expenses and liability in connection with the protection of our intellectual property rights outside the united states, and if we are unable to successfully protect our rights or resolve intellectual property conflicts with others, our business or financial condition may be adversely affected. we are subject to periodic litigation and other regulatory proceedings, which could result in unexpected expense of time and resources. from time to time we are called upon to defend ourselves against lawsuits and regulatory actions relating to our business. due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation and regulatory proceedings, we cannot accurately 9 table of contents predict the ultimate outcome of any such proceedings. an unfavorable outcome could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, any significant litigation in the future, regardless of its merits, could divert management attention from our operations and result in substantial legal fees. our international operations involve inherent risks which could result in harm to our business. virtually all of our athletic footwear and apparel is manufactured outside of the united states, and the majority of our products are sold outside of the united states. accordingly, we are subject to the risks generally associated with global trade and doing business abroad, which include foreign laws and regulations, varying consumer preferences across geographic regions, political unrest, disruptions or delays in cross-border shipments, and changes in economic conditions in countries in which we manufacture or sell products. in addition, disease outbreaks, terrorist acts and military conflict have increased the risks of doing business abroad. these factors, among others, could affect our ability to manufacture products or procure materials, our ability to import products, our ability to sell products in international markets, and our cost of doing business. if any of these or other factors make the conduct of business in a particular country undesirable or impractical, our business could be adversely affected. in addition, many of our imported products are subject to duties, tariffs, or quotas that affect the cost and quantity of various types of goods imported into the united states and other countries. any country in which our products are produced or sold may eliminate, adjust or impose new quotas, duties, tariffs, safeguard measures, anti-dumping duties, cargo restrictions to prevent terrorism, restrictions on the transfer of currency, climate change legislation, product safety regulations or other charges or restrictions, any of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. changes in tax laws and unanticipated tax liabilities could adversely affect our effective income tax rate and profitability. we are subject to income taxes in the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. our effective income tax rate in the future could be adversely affected by a number of factors, including: changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws, the outcome of income tax audits in various jurisdictions around the world, and any repatriation of non-us earnings for which we have not previously provided for u.s. taxes. we regularly assess all of these matters to determine the adequacy of our tax provision, which is subject to significant discretion. currency exchange rate fluctuations could result in lower revenues, higher costs and decreased margins and earnings. a majority of our products are sold outside of the united states. as a result, we conduct transactions in various currencies, which increase our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar. our international revenues and expenses generally are derived from sales and operations in foreign currencies, and these revenues and expenses could be affected by currency fluctuations, including amounts recorded in foreign currencies and translated into u.s. dollars for consolidated financial reporting. currency exchange rate fluctuations could also disrupt the business of the independent manufacturers that produce our products by making their purchases of raw materials more expensive and more difficult to finance. foreign currency fluctuations could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. our hedging activities (see note 16 risk management and derivatives in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements ), which are designed to minimize and delay, but not to completely eliminate, the effects of foreign currency fluctuations may not sufficiently mitigate the impact of foreign currencies on our financial results. factors that could affect the effectiveness of our hedging activities include accuracy of sales forecasts, volatility of currency markets, and the availability of hedging instruments. since the hedging activities are designed to minimize volatility, they not only reduce the negative impact of a stronger u.s. dollar, but they also reduce the positive impact of a weaker u.s. dollar. our future financial results could be significantly affected by the value of the u.s. dollar in relation to the foreign currencies in which we conduct business. the degree to which our financial results are affected for any given time period will depend in part upon our hedging activities. our products are subject to risks associated with overseas sourcing, manufacturing, and financing. the principal materials used in our apparel products natural and synthetic fabrics and threads, plastic and metal hardware, and specialized performance fabrics designed to repel rain, retain heat, or efficiently transport body moisture are available in countries where our manufacturing takes place. the principal materials used in our footwear products natural and synthetic rubber, plastic compounds, foam cushioning materials, nylon, leather, canvas and polyurethane films are also locally available to manufacturers. nike contractors and suppliers buy raw materials in bulk. there could be a significant disruption in the supply of fabrics or raw materials from current sources or, in the event of a disruption, we might not be able to locate alternative suppliers of materials of comparable quality at an acceptable price, or at all. in addition, we cannot be certain that our unaffiliated manufacturers will be able to fill our orders in a timely manner. if we experience significant increases in demand, or reductions in the availability of materials, or need to replace an existing manufacturer, there can be no assurance that additional supplies of fabrics or raw materials or additional manufacturing capacity will be available when required on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all, or that any supplier or manufacturer would allocate sufficient capacity to us in order to meet our requirements. in addition, even if we are able to expand existing or find new manufacturing or sources of materials, we may encounter delays in production and added costs as a result of the time it takes to train suppliers and manufacturers in our methods, products, quality control standards, and labor, health and safety standards. any delays, interruption or increased costs in the supply of materials or manufacture of our products could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet retail customer and consumer demand for our products and result in lower revenues and net income both in the short and long-term. because independent manufacturers manufacture a majority of our products outside of our principal sales markets, our products must be transported by third parties over large geographic distances. delays in the shipment or delivery of our products due to the availability of transportation, work stoppages, port strikes, infrastructure congestion, or other factors, and costs and delays associated with consolidating or transitioning between manufacturers, could adversely impact our financial performance. in addition, manufacturing delays or unexpected demand for our products may require us to use faster, but more expensive, transportation methods such as aircraft, which could adversely affect our profit margins. the cost of fuel is a significant component in manufacturing and transportation costs, so increases in the price of petroleum products can adversely affect our profit margins. in addition, sojitz america performs significant import-export financing services for most of the nike brand products sold outside of the united states, europe, middle east, africa, and japan, excluding products produced and sold in the same country. any failure of sojitz america to provide these services or any failure of sojitz america banks could disrupt our ability to acquire products from our suppliers and to deliver products to our customers outside of the united states, europe, middle east, africa, and japan. such a disruption could result in cancelled orders that would adversely affect sales and profitability. natural disasters could negatively impact our operating results and financial condition. natural disasters such as earthquakes, hurricanes, tsunamis or other adverse weather and climate conditions, whether occurring in the u.s. or abroad, and the consequences and effects thereof, including energy shortages and public health issues, could disrupt our operations, or the operations of our vendors and other suppliers, or result in economic instability that may negatively impact our operating results and financial condition. 10 table of contents our success depends on our global distribution facilities. we distribute our products to customers directly from the factory and through distribution centers located throughout the world. our ability to meet customer expectations, manage inventory, complete sales and achieve objectives for operating efficiencies depends on the proper operation of our distribution facilities, the development or expansion of additional distribution capabilities, and the timely performance of services by third parties (including those involved in shipping product to and from our distribution facilities). our distribution facilities could be interrupted by information technology problems and disasters such as earthquakes or fires. any significant failure in our distribution facilities could result in an adverse affect on our business. we maintain business interruption insurance, but it may not adequately protect us from adverse effects that could be caused by significant disruptions in our distribution facilities. we rely significantly on information technology to operate our business, including our supply chain and retail operations, and any failure, inadequacy, breach, interruption or security failure of that technology or any misappropriation of any data could harm our reputation or our ability to effectively operate our business. we are heavily dependent on information technology systems and networks, including the internet and third-party hosted services ( information technology systems ), across our supply chain, including product design, production, forecasting, ordering, manufacturing, transportation, sales, and distribution, as well as for processing financial information for external and internal reporting purposes and other business activities. our ability to effectively manage and maintain our inventory and to ship products to customers on a timely basis depends significantly on the reliability of these information technology systems. over the last several years, as part of the ongoing initiative to upgrade our worldwide supply chain, we have implemented new information technology systems in all of the geographical regions in which we operate. over the next few years, we will work to continue to enhance these systems and related processes in our global operations. the failure of these systems to operate effectively, problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, or a breach in security of these systems could cause delays in product fulfillment and reduced efficiency of our operations, could require significant capital investments to remediate the problem, and may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we also use information technology systems to process financial information and results of operations for internal reporting purposes and to comply with regulatory financial reporting, legal and tax requirements. if our information technology systems suffer severe damage, disruption or shutdown and our business continuity plans do not effectively resolve the issues in a timely manner, we could experience delays in reporting our financial results, which could result in lost revenues and profits, as well as reputational damage. in addition, hackers and data thieves are increasingly sophisticated and operate large scale and complex automated attacks. any breach of our network may result in the loss of valuable business data, our customers or employees personal information or a disruption of our business, which could give rise to unwanted media attention, damage our customer relationships and reputation and result in lost sales, fines or lawsuits. in addition, we must comply with increasingly complex regulatory standards enacted to protect this business and personal data. an inability to maintain compliance with these regulatory standards could subject us to legal risks. furthermore, we depend on information technology systems for digital marketing campaigns and activities and electronic communications throughout the world between and among our employees as well as with other third parties, such as other customers, suppliers and consumers. our information technology systems are critical to many of our operating activities and our business processes may be negatively impacted by any service interruption or shutdown. misuse, leakage or falsification of information could result in a violation of data privacy laws and regulations and damage our reputation and credibility and have a negative impact on revenues and profits. our financial results may be adversely affected if substantial investments in businesses and operations fail to produce expected returns. from time to time, we may invest in business infrastructure, acquisitions of new businesses, product offering and manufacturing innovation, and expansion of existing businesses, such as our retail operations, which require substantial cash investments and management attention. we believe cost effective investments are essential to business growth and profitability. however, significant investments are subject to typical risks and uncertainties inherent in acquiring or expanding a business. the failure of any significant investment to provide the returns or profitability we expect could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and divert management attention from more profitable business operations. we depend on key personnel, the loss of whom would harm our business. our future success will depend in part on the continued service of key executive officers and personnel. the loss of the services of any key individual could harm us. our future success also depends on our ability to identify, attract and retain additional qualified personnel. competition for employees in our industry is intense and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. the sale of a large number of shares held by our chairman could depress the market price of our common stock. philip h. knight, co-founder and chairman of our board of directors, beneficially owns over 74.8% of our class a common stock. if all of his class a common stock were converted into class b common stock, mr. knight would own over 15.5% of our class b common stock. these shares are available for resale, subject to the requirements of the u.s. securities laws. the sale or prospect of the sale of a substantial number of these shares could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. anti-takeover provisions may impair an acquisition of the company or reduce the price of our common stock. there are provisions of our articles of incorporation and oregon law that are intended to protect shareholder interests by providing the board of directors a means to attempt to deny coercive takeover attempts or to negotiate with a potential acquirer in order to obtain more favorable terms. such provisions include a control share acquisition statute, a freeze-out statute, two classes of stock that vote separately on certain issues, and the fact that holders of class a common stock elect three-fourths of the board of directors rounded down to the next whole number. however, such provisions could discourage, delay or prevent an unsolicited merger, acquisition or other change in control of our company that some shareholders might believe to be in their best interests or in which shareholders might receive a premium for their common stock over the prevailing market price. these provisions could also discourage proxy contests for control of the company. we may fail to meet analyst expectations, which could cause the price of our stock to decline. our class b common stock is traded publicly, and at any given time various securities analysts follow our financial results and issue reports on us. these reports include information about our historical financial results as well as the analysts estimates of our future performance. the analysts estimates are based upon their own opinions and are often different from our estimates or expectations. if our operating results are below the estimates or expectations of public market analysts and investors, our stock price could decline. in the past, securities class action litigation has been brought against nike and other companies following a decline in the market price of their securities. if our stock price is volatile, we may become involved in this type of litigation in the future. any litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management attention and resources that are needed to successfully run our business. 11 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 35 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in the normal course of business and consistent with established policies and procedures, we employ a variety of financial instruments to manage exposure to fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies and interest rates. it is our policy to utilize these financial instruments only where necessary to finance our business and manage such exposures; we do not enter into these transactions for speculative purposes. we are exposed to foreign currency fluctuations, primarily as a result of our international sales, product sourcing and funding activities. our foreign exchange risk management program is intended to lessen both the positive and negative effects of currency fluctuations on our consolidated results of operations, financial position and cash flows. we use forward exchange contracts and options to hedge certain anticipated but not yet firmly committed transactions as well as certain firm commitments and the related receivables and payables, including third-party and intercompany transactions. we also use forward contracts to hedge our investment in the net assets of certain international subsidiaries to offset foreign currency translation adjustments related to our net investment in those subsidiaries. where hedged, our program has the effect of delaying the impact of current market rates on our consolidated financial statements dependent upon hedge horizons. when we begin hedging exposures, the type and duration of each hedge depends on the nature of the exposure and market conditions. generally, all anticipated and firmly committed transactions that are hedged are to be recognized within 12 to 18 months. the majority of the contracts expiring in more than 12 months relate to the anticipated purchase of inventory. when intercompany loans are hedged, it is typically for their expected duration. hedged transactions are principally denominated in euros, british pounds and japanese yen. see section foreign currency exposures and hedging practices under item 7 for additional detail. our earnings are also exposed to movements in short and long-term market interest rates. our objective in managing this interest rate exposure is to limit the impact of interest rate changes on earnings and cash flows and to reduce overall borrowing costs. to achieve these objectives, we maintain a mix of commercial paper, bank loans and fixed rate debt of varying maturities and have entered into receive-fixed, pay-variable interest rate swaps. market risk measurement we monitor foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk and related derivatives using a variety of techniques including a review of market value, sensitivity analysis, and value-at-risk ( var ). our market-sensitive derivative and other financial instruments are foreign currency forward contracts, foreign currency option contracts, interest rate swaps, intercompany loans denominated in non-functional currencies, fixed interest rate u.s. dollar denominated debt, and fixed interest rate japanese yen denominated debt. we use var to monitor the foreign exchange risk of our foreign currency forward and foreign currency option derivative instruments only. the var determines the maximum potential one-day loss in the fair value of these foreign exchange rate-sensitive financial instruments. the var model estimates assume normal market conditions and a 95% confidence level. there are various modeling techniques that can be used in the var computation. our computations are based on interrelationships between currencies and interest rates (a variance/co-variance technique). these interrelationships are a function of foreign exchange currency market changes and interest rate changes over the preceding one year period. the value of foreign currency options does not change on a one-to-one basis with changes in the underlying currency rate. we adjust the potential loss in option value for the estimated sensitivity (the delta and gamma ) to changes in the underlying currency rate. this calculation reflects the impact of foreign currency rate fluctuations on the derivative instruments only and does not include the impact of such rate fluctuations on non-functional currency transactions (such as anticipated transactions, firm commitments, cash balances, and accounts and loans receivable and payable), including those which are hedged by these instruments. the var model is a risk analysis tool and does not purport to represent actual losses in fair value that we will incur, nor does it consider the potential effect of favorable changes in market rates. it also does not represent the full extent of the possible loss that may occur. actual future gains and losses will differ from those estimated because of changes or differences in market rates and interrelationships, hedging instruments and hedge percentages, timing and other factors. the estimated maximum one-day loss in fair value on our foreign currency sensitive derivative financial instruments, derived using the var model, was $21 million and $33 million at may 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. the var decreased year-over-year primarily as a result of decreased foreign currency volatilities at may 31, 2012. such a hypothetical loss in fair value of our derivatives would be offset by increases in the value of the underlying transactions being hedged. the average monthly change in the fair values of foreign currency forward and foreign currency option derivative instruments was $87 million and $79 million during fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2011, respectively. the instruments not included in the var are intercompany loans denominated in non-functional currencies, fixed interest rate japanese yen denominated debt, fixed interest rate u.s. dollar denominated debt and interest rate swaps. intercompany loans and related interest amounts are eliminated in consolidation. furthermore, our non-functional currency intercompany loans are substantially hedged against foreign exchange risk through the use of forward contracts, which are included in the var calculation above. therefore, we consider the interest rate and foreign currency market risks associated with our non-functional currency intercompany loans to be immaterial to our consolidated financial position, results from operations and cash flows. details of third-party debt and interest rate swaps are provided in the table below. the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates. weighted average interest rates for the fixed rate swapped to floating rate debt reflect the effective interest rates as of may 31, 2012. 35 table of contents expected maturity date year ending may 31, (dollars in millions) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 thereafter total fair value foreign exchange risk japanese yen functional currency japanese yen debt fixed rate principal payments $ 9 $ 9 $ 9 $ 9 $ 9 $ 27 $ 72 $ 76 average interest rate 2.4 % 2.4 % 2.4 % 2.4 % 2.4 % 2.4 % 2.4 % interest rate risk japanese yen functional currency long-term japanese yen debt fixed rate principal payments $ 9 $ 9 $ 9 $ 9 $ 9 $ 27 $ 72 $ 76 average interest rate 2.4 % 2.4 % 2.4 % 2.4 % 2.4 % 2.4 % 2.4 % u.s. dollar functional currency long-term u.s. dollar debt fixed rate swapped to floating rate principal payments $ 40 $ $ $ 100 $ $ $ 140 $ 154 average interest rate 0.8 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.7 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.7 % long-term u.s. dollar debt fixed rate principal payments $ $ 50 $ $ $ $ $ 50 $ 53 average interest rate 0.0 % 4.7 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 4.7 % the fixed interest rate japanese yen denominated debt instruments were issued by and are accounted for by one of our japanese subsidiaries. accordingly, the monthly translation of these instruments, which varies due to changes in foreign exchange rates, is recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income upon the consolidation of this subsidiary.