risk factors. our business, operations, and financial condition are subject to various risks and uncertainties. the risk factors described below should be carefully considered, together with the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this report and our other filings with the sec, in connection with evaluating the company, our business, and the forward-looking statements contained in this report. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may affect us. the occurrence of any of these known or unknown risks could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we may be unable to grow market share of our products. we operate in the competitive food industry whose growth potential is generally correlated to population growth. our success depends in part on our ability to grow our brands faster than the population in general. we consider our ability to build and sustain the equity of our brands critical to our market share growth. if we do not succeed in these efforts, our market share growth may slow, which could have a material impact on our results of operations. 6 our proprietary brands, packaging designs, and manufacturing methods are essential to the value of our business, and the inability to protect these could harm the value of our brands and adversely affect our sales and profitability. the success of our business depends significantly on our brands, know-how, and other intellectual property. we rely on a combination of trademarks, service marks, trade secrets, patents, copyrights, and similar rights to protect our intellectual property. the success of our growth strategy depends on our continued ability to use our existing trademarks and service marks in order to maintain and increase brand awareness and further develop our brand. if our efforts to protect our intellectual property are not adequate, or if any third party misappropriates or infringes on our intellectual property, the value of our brand may be harmed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. from time to time, we are engaged in litigation to protect our intellectual property, which could result in substantial costs as well as diversion of management attention. in particular, we consider our proprietary coffee roasting methods essential to the consistent flavor and richness of our coffee products and, therefore, essential to our coffee brands. because many of the roasting methods we use are not protected by patents, it may be difficult for us to prevent competitors from copying our roasting methods if such methods become known. we also believe that our packaging innovations, such as brick packaging technology and our aromaseal canisters, are important to the coffee business' marketing and operational efforts. if our competitors copy our roasting or packaging methods or develop more advanced roasting or packaging methods, the value of our coffee brands may be diminished, and we could lose customers to our competitors. we use a single national broker to represent a portion of our branded products to the retail grocery trade and any failure by the broker to effectively represent us could adversely affect our business. we use a single national broker in the u.s. to represent a portion of our branded products to the retail grocery trade. our business would suffer disruption if this broker were to default in the performance of its obligations to perform brokerage services or if this broker fails to effectively represent us to the retail grocery trade, which could adversely affect our business. loss or interruption of supply from single-source suppliers of raw materials and finished goods could have a disruptive effect on our business and adversely affect our results of operations. we have elected to source certain raw materials, such as packaging for our folgers coffee products, as well as our jif peanut butter and crisco oil products, and finished goods, such as k-cup pods and our pup-peroni dog snacks, from single sources of supply. while we believe that, except as set forth below, alternative sources of these raw materials and finished goods could be obtained on commercially reasonable terms, loss or an extended interruption in supplies from a single-source supplier would result in additional costs, could have a disruptive short-term effect on our business, and could adversely affect our results of operations. keurig is our single-source supplier for k-cup pods which are used in its proprietary keurig k-cup brewing system. there are a limited number of manufacturers other than keurig that are making cups that will work in such proprietary brewing system. if keurig is unable to supply k-cup pods to us for any reason, it could be difficult to find an alternative supplier for such goods on commercially reasonable terms, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our results may be adversely impacted as a result of increased cost, limited availability, and/or insufficient quality of raw materials, including commodities and agricultural products. we and our business partners purchase and use large quantities of many different commodities and agricultural products in the manufacturing of our products, including green coffee, grains, peanuts, edible oils, sweeteners, and fruit. in addition, we and our business partners utilize significant quantities of plastic, glass, and cardboard to package our products and natural gas and fuel oil to manufacture, package, and distribute our products. the prices of these commodities, agricultural products, and other materials are subject to volatility and can fluctuate due to conditions that are difficult to predict, including global supply and demand, commodity market fluctuations, crop sizes and yield fluctuations, weather, natural disasters, foreign currency fluctuations, investor speculation, trade agreements, political unrest, consumer demand, and changes in governmental agricultural programs. in addition, we compete for certain raw materials, notably corn and soy-based agricultural products, with the biofuels industry, which has resulted in increased prices 7 for these raw materials. additionally, farm acreage currently devoted to other agricultural products we purchase may be utilized for biofuels crops resulting in higher cost for the other agricultural products we utilize. although we use basis, futures, and options contracts to manage commodity price volatility in some instances, commodity price increases ultimately result in corresponding increases in our raw material and energy costs. due to the significance of green coffee to our coffee business, combined with our ability to only partially mitigate future price risk through purchasing practices and hedging activities, significant increases or decreases in the cost of green coffee could have an adverse impact on our profitability. in addition, if we are not able to purchase sufficient quantities of green coffee due to any of the above factors or to a worldwide or regional shortage, we may not be able to fulfill the demand for our coffee, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our efforts to manage commodity, foreign currency exchange, and other price volatility through derivative instruments could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we use derivative instruments, including commodity futures and options, to reduce the price volatility associated with anticipated commodity purchases. the extent of our derivative position at any given time depends on our assessment of the markets for these commodities. if we fail to take a derivative position and costs subsequently increase, or if we institute a position and costs subsequently decrease, our costs may be greater than anticipated or higher than our competitors' costs and our financial results could be adversely affected. in addition, our liquidity may be adversely impacted by the cash margin requirements of the commodities exchanges or the failure of a counterparty to perform in accordance with a contract. we currently do not qualify any of our commodity or foreign currency exchange derivatives for hedge accounting. we instead mark-to-market our derivatives through the statement of consolidated income, which results in changes in the fair value of all of our derivatives being immediately recognized in consolidated earnings, resulting in potential volatility in both gross profit and net income. these gains and losses are reported in cost of products sold in our statement of consolidated income but are excluded from our segment operating results and non-gaap earnings until the related inventory is sold, at which time the gains and losses are reclassified to segment profit and non-gaap earnings. although this accounting treatment aligns the derivative gains and losses with the underlying exposure being hedged within segment results, it may result in volatility in our consolidated earnings. we may be limited in our ability to pass cost increases on to our customers in the form of price increases or may realize a decrease in sales volume to the extent price increases are implemented. we may not be able to pass some or all of any increases in the price of raw materials, energy, and other input costs to our customers by raising prices. to the extent competitors do not also increase their prices, customers and consumers may choose to purchase competing products or may shift purchases to private label or other lower-priced offerings, which may adversely affect our results of operations. consumers may be less willing or able to pay a price differential for our branded products, and may increasingly purchase lower-priced offerings and may forego some purchases altogether, especially during economic downturns. retailers may also increase levels of promotional activity for lower-priced offerings as they seek to maintain sales volumes during times of economic uncertainty. accordingly, sales volumes of our branded products could be reduced or lead to a shift in sales mix toward our lower-margin offerings. as a result, decreased demand for our products may adversely affect our results of operations. certain of our products are sourced from single manufacturing sites. we have consolidated our production capacity for certain products, including substantially all of our coffee, milk-bone dog snacks, and fruit spreads, syrups, and toppings production, into single manufacturing sites. we could experience a production disruption at these or any of our manufacturing sites resulting in a reduction or elimination of the availability of some of our products. if we are not able to obtain alternate production capability in a timely manner, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. 8 a significant interruption in the operation of any of our supply chain or distribution capabilities could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our ability and the ability of our third-party suppliers and service providers, distributors, and contract manufacturers to manufacture, distribute, and sell products is critical to our success. a significant interruption in the operation of any of our manufacturing or distribution capabilities, or the manufacturing or distribution capabilities of our suppliers, distributors, or contract manufacturers, or a service failure by a third-party service provider, whether as a result of adverse weather conditions or a natural disaster, work stoppage, terrorism, pandemic illness, or other causes, could significantly impair our ability to operate our business. notably, substantially all of our coffee production takes place in new orleans, louisiana, which is subject to risks associated with hurricane and other weather-related events. additionally, some of our production facilities are located in places where tornadoes can frequently occur, such as alabama and kansas. failure to take adequate steps to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our business could be harmed by strikes or work stoppages. as of april 30, 2016 , 30 percent of our employees, located at 11 manufacturing facilities, are covered by collective bargaining agreements. these contracts vary in term depending on location, with one contract expiring in 2017, representing 8 percent of our total employees. we cannot assure that we will be able to renew these collective bargaining agreements on the same or more favorable terms as the current agreements, or at all, without production interruptions caused by labor stoppages. if a strike or work stoppage were to occur in connection with negotiations of new collective bargaining agreements or as a result of disputes under collective bargaining agreements with labor unions, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. our ability to competitively serve customers depends on the availability of reliable transportation. increases in logistics and other transportation-related costs could adversely impact our results of operations. logistics and other transportation-related costs have a significant impact on our earnings and results of operations. we use multiple forms of transportation, including ships, trucks, and railcars, to bring our products to market. disruption to the timely supply of these services or increases in the cost of these services for any reason, including availability or cost of fuel, regulations affecting the industry, labor shortages in the transportation industry, service failures by third-party service providers, accidents, or natural disasters, which may impact the transportation infrastructure or demand for transportation services, could have an adverse effect on our ability to serve our customers, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our operations are subject to the general risks of the food industry. the food industry is subject to risks posed by food spoilage and contamination, product tampering, product recall, and consumer product liability claims. our operations could be impacted by both genuine and fictitious claims regarding our products, as well as our competitors' products. in the event of product contamination or tampering, we may need to recall some of our products. a widespread product recall could result in significant loss due to the cost of conducting a product recall, including destruction of inventory and the loss of sales resulting from the unavailability of product for a period of time. we could also suffer losses from a significant product liability judgment against us. a significant product recall or a product liability judgment, involving either us or our competitors, could also result in a loss of consumer confidence in our food products or the food category, and an actual or perceived loss of value of our brands, materially impacting consumer demand. changes in our relationships with significant customers, including the loss of our largest customer, could adversely affect our results of operations. sales to wal-mart stores, inc. and subsidiaries amounted to 30 percent of net sales in 2016 . these sales are primarily included in the u.s. retail market segments. trade receivables at april 30, 2016 , included amounts due from wal-mart stores, inc. and subsidiaries of $118.1 million, or 26 percent of the total trade receivables balance. during 2016 , our top 10 customers, collectively, accounted for approximately 70 percent of consolidated net sales. we expect that a significant portion of our revenues will continue to be derived from a 9 limited number of customers. our customers are generally not contractually obligated to purchase from us. these customers make purchase decisions based on a combination of price, promotional support, product quality, consumer demand, customer service performance, their desired inventory levels, and other factors. changes in customers' strategies, including a reduction in the number of brands they carry or a shift of shelf space to private label products, may adversely affect sales. customers also may respond to price increases by reducing distribution, resulting in reduced sales of our products. additionally, our customers may face financial or other difficulties that may impact their operations and their purchases from us, which could adversely affect our results of operations. a reduction in sales to one or more major customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we operate in the competitive food industry and continued demand for our products may be affected by changes in consumer preferences. we face competition across our product lines from other food companies with the primary methods and factors in competition being product quality, price, packaging, product innovation, nutritional value, convenience, customer service, advertising, and promotion. continued success is dependent on product innovation, the ability to secure and maintain adequate retail shelf space and to compete in new and growing channels, such as e-commerce, and effective and sufficient trade merchandising, advertising, and marketing programs. some of our competitors have substantial financial, marketing, and other resources, and competition with them in our various markets, channels, and product lines could cause us to reduce prices, increase marketing or other expenditures, or lose category share. category share and growth could be adversely impacted if we are not successful in introducing new products. in order to generate future revenues and profits, we must continue to sell products that appeal to our customers and consumers. specifically, there are a number of trends in consumer preferences that may impact us and the food industry as a whole, including convenience, flavor variety, an emphasis on protein and snacking, and the desire for transparent product labeling and simple and natural ingredients. prolonged negative perceptions concerning the health implications of certain food products could influence consumer preferences and acceptance of some of our products and marketing programs. although we strive to respond to consumer preferences and social expectations, we may not be successful in these efforts. increasing public concern regarding health issues and failure to satisfy consumer preferences could decrease demand for certain of our products and adversely affect our profitability. the success of our business depends substantially on consumer perceptions of our brands. we are the branded market leader in several categories both in the u.s. and canada. we believe that maintaining and continually enhancing the value of our brands is critical to the success of our business. brand value is based in large part on consumer perceptions. success in promoting and enhancing brand value depends in large part on our ability to provide high-quality products. brand value could diminish significantly as a result of a number of factors, such as if we fail to preserve the quality of our products, if we are perceived to act in an irresponsible manner, if the company or our brands otherwise receive negative publicity, if our brands fail to deliver a consistently positive consumer experience, or if our products become unavailable to consumers. the growing use of social and digital media by consumers increases the speed and extent that information and opinions can be shared. negative posts or comments about us or our brands or products on social or digital media could damage our brands and reputation. if our brand values are diminished, our revenues and operating results could be materially adversely affected. in addition, anything that harms the pillsbury , dunkin' donuts , carnation , douwe egberts , sweet n low , or sugar in the raw brands could adversely affect the success of our exclusive licensing agreements with the owners of these brands. we could be subject to adverse publicity or claims from consumers. certain of our products contain ingredients, the health effects of which are the subject of public scrutiny, including the suggestion that consumption may have adverse health effects. an unfavorable report on the health effects of ingredients present in our products, product recalls, or negative publicity or litigation arising from other health risks could significantly reduce the demand for our products. we may also be subject to complaints from or litigation by consumers who allege food and beverage-related illness, or other quality, health, or operational concerns. adverse publicity resulting from such allegations 10 could materially adversely affect us, regardless of whether such allegations are true or whether we are ultimately held liable. a lawsuit or claim could result in an adverse decision against us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our operations are subject to the general risks associated with acquisitions and divestitures. specifically, we may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of the acquisition of big heart or those benefits may take longer to realize than expected. our stated long-term strategy is to own and market leading north american food brands sold in the center of the store while maintaining a global perspective. we have historically made strategic acquisitions of brands and businesses and intend to do so in the future in support of this strategy. if we are unable to complete acquisitions or to successfully integrate and develop acquired businesses, including the effective management of integration and related restructuring costs, we could fail to achieve the anticipated synergies and cost savings, or the expected increases in revenues and operating results, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. in addition, we have made strategic divestitures of brands and businesses and we may do so in the future. if we are unable to complete divestitures or to successfully transition divested businesses, our business or financial results could be negatively impacted. weak financial performance, downgrades in our credit ratings, or disruptions in the financial markets may adversely affect our ability to access capital in the future. we may need new or additional financing in the future to conduct our operations, expand our business, or refinance existing indebtedness, which would be dependent upon our financial performance. any downgrade in our credit ratings, particularly our short-term rating, would likely impact the amount of commercial paper we could issue and increase our commercial paper borrowing costs. the liquidity of the overall capital markets and the state of the economy, including the food and beverage industry, may make credit and capital markets more difficult for us to access, even though we have an established revolving credit facility. from time to time, we have relied, and also may rely in the future, on access to financial markets as a source of liquidity for working capital requirements, acquisitions, and general corporate purposes. in particular, our access to funds under our revolving credit facility is dependent on the ability of the financial institutions that are parties to that facility to meet their funding commitments. the obligations of the financial institutions under our revolving credit facility are several and not joint and, as a result, a funding default by one or more institutions does not need to be made up by the others. in addition, long-term volatility and disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation of financial institutions, reduced alternatives, or the failure of significant financial institutions could adversely affect our access to the liquidity needed for our businesses in the longer term. such disruptions could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for our business needs can be arranged. disruptions in the capital and credit markets could also result in higher interest rates on publicly issued debt securities and increased costs under credit facilities. continuation of these disruptions would increase our interest expense and capital costs and could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. our substantial debt obligations could restrict our operations and financial condition. as of april 30, 2016 , we had approximately $5.4 billion of short-term borrowings and long-term debt. we may also incur additional indebtedness in the future. our substantial indebtedness could have adverse consequences, including: making it more difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations; increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic, regulatory, and industry conditions, and placing us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that are less leveraged; limiting our ability to compete and our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; limiting our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, and general corporate or other purposes; and 11 exposing us to greater interest rate risk to the extent that the interest rate on the applicable borrowings is variable. our debt service obligations will require us to use a portion of our operating cash flow to pay interest and principal on indebtedness instead of for other corporate purposes, including funding future expansion of our business and ongoing capital expenditures, which could impede our growth. if our operating cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to service our debt obligations, we may be forced to sell assets, seek additional equity or debt financing, or restructure our debt, which could harm our long-term business prospects. our failure to comply with the terms of any existing or future indebtedness could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debt. servicing our indebtedness will require a significant amount of cash. our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. our ability to make payments on, and to refinance, our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. this is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations, and we may not have available to us future borrowings in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. in these circumstances, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require make-whole payments and compliance with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. our ability to refinance our indebtedness or obtain additional financing would depend on, among other things, our financial condition at the time, restriction in the agreements governing our indebtedness, and the condition of the financial markets and the industry in which we operate. as a result, we may not be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. without this financing, we could be forced to sell assets to make up for any shortfall in our payment obligations under unfavorable circumstances. in addition, we may not be able to sell assets quickly enough or for sufficient amounts to enable us to meet our obligations. a material impairment in the carrying value of acquired goodwill or other intangible assets could negatively affect our consolidated operating results and net worth. a significant portion of our assets is goodwill and other intangible assets, the majority of which are not amortized but are reviewed at least annually for impairment. at april 30, 2016 , the carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets totaled $12.6 billion, compared to total assets of $16.0 billion and total shareholders' equity of $7.0 billion. if the carrying value of these assets exceeds the current estimated fair value, the asset is considered impaired and this could result in a noncash charge to earnings. any such impairment charge would reduce earnings and could be material. events and conditions that could result in impairment include a sustained drop in the market price of our common shares, increased competition or loss of market share, obsolescence, or product claims that result in a significant loss of sales or profitability over the product life. as a result of the big heart acquisition in 2015, we recognized $3.0 billion of goodwill. we also recorded $1.5 billion of indefinite-lived intangible assets based on their estimated fair values on the acquisition date. since these assets were recently acquired, they could be more susceptible to future impairment. a change to the assumptions regarding the future performance of the pet food business, or a portion of it, a change to other assumptions, or the failure of any of our reporting units to achieve its anticipated synergies related to the big heart acquisition could result in significant impairment losses in the future. changes in tax, environmental, or other regulations and laws, or their application, or failure to comply with existing licensing, trade, and other regulations and laws could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. our operations are subject to various regulations and laws administered by federal, state, and local government agencies in the u.s., as well as to regulations and laws administered by government agencies in canada and other countries in which we have operations and our products are sold. in particular, the manufacturing, marketing, packaging, labeling, and distribution of food products are each subject to governmental regulation that is increasingly extensive, encompassing such matters as ingredients (including whether a product contains genetically modified ingredients), packaging, advertising, relations with 12 distributors and retailers, health, safety, and the environment. additionally, we are routinely subject to new or modified tax and securities regulations, other laws and regulations, and accounting and reporting standards. in the u.s., we are required to comply with federal laws, such as the food, drug and cosmetic act, the food safety modernization act, the occupational safety and health act, the clean air act, the clean water act, the resource conservation and recovery act, the tariff act, laws governing equal employment opportunity, and various other federal statutes and regulations. we are also subject to various state and local statutes and regulations. for instance, the california safe drinking water and toxic enforcement act of 1986 (commonly referred to as proposition 65 ) requires that a specific warning appear on any product sold in the state of california that contains a substance listed by that state as having been found to cause cancer or birth defects. this law exposes all food and beverage producers to the possibility of having to provide warnings on their products. the detection of even a trace amount of a listed substance can subject an affected product to the requirement of a warning label. products containing listed substances that occur naturally or that are contributed to such products solely by a municipal water supply are generally exempt from the warning requirement. if we are required to add warning labels to any of our products or place warnings in certain locations where our products are sold as a result of proposition 65, sales of those products could suffer not only in those locations but elsewhere. complying with new regulations and laws, or changes to existing regulations and laws, or their application could increase our production costs or adversely affect our sales of certain products. in addition, our failure or inability to comply with applicable regulations and laws could subject us to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, recalls or seizures, as well as potential criminal sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. our operations in certain developing markets expose us to regulatory risks. in many countries outside of the u.s., particularly in those with developing economies, it may be common for others to engage in business practices prohibited by laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act or similar local anti-bribery or anti-corruption laws. these laws generally prohibit companies and their employees, contractors, or agents from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. failure to comply with these laws could subject us to civil and criminal penalties that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. changes in climate or legal, regulatory, or market measures to address climate change may negatively affect our business and operations. there is significant political and scientific concern that emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases may alter the composition of the global atmosphere in ways that are affecting and are expected to continue affecting the global climate. the emission of such greenhouse gases may have an adverse impact on global temperatures, weather patterns, and the frequency and severity of extreme weather and natural disasters. in the event that climate change has a negative effect on agricultural productivity, we may be subject to decreased availability or less favorable pricing for certain commodities that are necessary for our products, such as green coffee, grains, peanuts, edible oils, sweeteners, and fruit. we may also be subjected to decreased availability or less favorable pricing for water as a result of such change, which could impact our manufacturing and distribution operations. in addition, natural disasters and extreme weather conditions may disrupt the productivity of our facilities or the operation of our supply chain. increasing concern over climate change also may result in more regulatory requirements to reduce or mitigate the effects of greenhouse gases. in the event that such regulations are enacted and are more rigorous than existing regulations, we may experience significant increases in costs of operation and delivery. in particular, increased regulation of utility providers, fuel emissions, or suppliers could substantially increase our operating, distribution, or supply chain costs. we could also face increased costs related to defending and resolving legal claims and other litigation related to climate change. as a result, climate change could negatively affect our results of operations, cash flows, or financial position. 13 if our information technology systems fail to perform adequately or we are unable to protect such information technology systems against data corruption, cyber-based attacks, or network security breaches, our operations could be disrupted, and we may suffer financial damage or loss because of lost or misappropriated information. we rely on information technology networks and systems, including the internet, to process, transmit, and store electronic information. in particular, we depend on our information technology infrastructure to effectively manage our business data, supply chain, logistics, finance, and other business processes and for digital marketing activities and electronic communications between company personnel and our customers and suppliers. if we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build, sustain, and protect an appropriate technology infrastructure, or we do not effectively implement system upgrades, our business or financial results could be negatively impacted. security breaches or system failures of our infrastructure, whether due to attacks by hackers, employee error, or other causes, can create system disruptions, shutdowns, or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. if we are unable to prevent such breaches or failures, our operations could be disrupted, or we may suffer financial damage or loss because of lost or misappropriated information. in addition, we have outsourced several information technology support services and administrative functions, including benefit plan administration and other functions, to third-party service providers, and may outsource other functions in the future to achieve cost savings and efficiencies. if the service providers to which we outsource these functions do not perform effectively, we may not be able to achieve the expected cost savings and may have to incur additional costs to correct errors made by such service providers. depending on the function involved, such errors may also lead to business disruption, processing inefficiencies, the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach, the loss of sensitive data through security breach, or otherwise. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk are incorporated herein by reference to the information set forth in our 2016 annual report to shareholders under the caption derivative financial instruments and market risk. 18risk factors. our business, operations, and financial condition are subject to various risks and uncertainties. the risk factors described below should be carefully considered, together with the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this report and our other filings with the sec, in connection with evaluating the company, our business, and the forward-looking statements contained in this report. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may affect us. the occurrence of any of these known or unknown risks could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we may be unable to grow market share of our products. we operate in the competitive food industry whose growth potential is positively correlated to population growth. our success depends in part on our ability to grow our brands faster than the population in general. we consider our ability to build and sustain the equity of our brands critical to our market share growth. if we do not succeed in these efforts, our market share growth may slow, which could have a material impact on our results of operations. 6 our proprietary brands, packaging designs, and manufacturing methods are essential to the value of our business, and the inability to protect these could harm the value of our brands and adversely affect our sales and profitability. the success of our business depends significantly on our brands, know-how, and other intellectual property. we rely on a combination of trademarks, service marks, trade secrets, patents, copyrights, and similar rights to protect our intellectual property. the success of our growth strategy depends on our continued ability to use our existing trademarks and service marks in order to maintain and increase brand awareness and further develop our brands. if our efforts to protect our intellectual property are not adequate, or if any third party misappropriates or infringes on our intellectual property, the value of our brands may be harmed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. from time to time, we are engaged in litigation to protect our intellectual property, which could result in substantial costs as well as diversion of management attention. in particular, we consider our proprietary coffee roasting methods essential to the consistent flavor and richness of our coffee products and, therefore, essential to our coffee brands. because many of the roasting methods we use are not protected by patents, it may be difficult for us to prevent competitors from copying our roasting methods if such methods become known. we also believe that our packaging innovations, such as our aromaseal canisters, are important to the coffee business' marketing and operational efforts. if our competitors copy our roasting or packaging methods or develop more advanced roasting or packaging methods, the value of our coffee brands may be diminished, and we could lose customers to our competitors. we use a single national broker to represent a portion of our branded products to the retail grocery trade and any failure by the broker to effectively represent us could adversely affect our business. we use a single national broker in the u.s. to represent a portion of our branded products to the retail grocery trade. our business would suffer disruption if this broker were to default in the performance of its obligations to perform brokerage services or if this broker fails to effectively represent us to the retail grocery trade, which could adversely affect our business. loss or interruption of supply from single-source suppliers of raw materials and finished goods could have a disruptive effect on our business and adversely affect our results of operations. we have elected to source certain raw materials, such as packaging for our folgers coffee products, as well as our jif peanut butter and crisco oil products, and finished goods, such as k-cup pods and our pup-peroni dog snacks, from single sources of supply. while we believe that, except as set forth below, alternative sources of these raw materials and finished goods could be obtained on commercially reasonable terms, loss or an extended interruption in supplies from a single-source supplier would result in additional costs, could have a disruptive short-term effect on our business, and could adversely affect our results of operations. keurig is our single-source supplier for k-cup pods which are used in its proprietary keurig k-cup brewing system. there are a limited number of manufacturers other than keurig that are making cups that will work in such proprietary brewing system. if keurig is unable to supply k-cup pods to us for any reason, it could be difficult to find an alternative supplier for such goods on commercially reasonable terms, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our results may be adversely impacted as a result of increased cost, limited availability, and/or insufficient quality of raw materials, including commodities and agricultural products. we and our business partners purchase and use large quantities of many different commodities and agricultural products in the manufacturing of our products, including green coffee, grains, peanuts, edible oils, protein meals, sweeteners, and fruit. in addition, we and our business partners utilize significant quantities of plastic, glass, and cardboard to package our products and natural gas and fuel oil to manufacture, package, and distribute our products. the prices of these commodities, agricultural products, and other materials are subject to volatility and can fluctuate due to conditions that are difficult to predict, including global supply and demand, commodity market fluctuations, crop sizes and yield fluctuations, weather, natural disasters, foreign currency fluctuations, investor speculation, trade agreements, political unrest, consumer demand, and changes in governmental agricultural programs. in addition, we compete for certain raw materials, notably corn and soy-based agricultural products, with the biofuels industry, which has resulted in increased prices for these raw materials. additionally, farm acreage currently devoted to other agricultural 7 products we purchase may be utilized for biofuels crops resulting in higher cost for the other agricultural products we utilize. although we use basis, futures, and options contracts to manage commodity price volatility in some instances, commodity price increases ultimately result in corresponding increases in our raw material and energy costs. due to the significance of green coffee to our coffee business, combined with our ability to only partially mitigate future price risk through purchasing practices and hedging activities, significant increases or decreases in the cost of green coffee could have an adverse impact on our profitability, as compared to that of our competitors. in addition, if we are not able to purchase sufficient quantities of green coffee due to any of the above factors or to a worldwide or regional shortage, we may not be able to fulfill the demand for our coffee, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our efforts to manage commodity, foreign currency exchange, and other price volatility through derivative instruments could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we use derivative instruments, including commodity futures and options, to reduce the price volatility associated with anticipated commodity purchases. the extent of our derivative position at any given time depends on our assessment of the markets for these commodities. if we fail to take a derivative position and costs subsequently increase, or if we institute a position and costs subsequently decrease, our costs may be greater than anticipated or higher than our competitors' costs and our financial results could be adversely affected. in addition, our liquidity may be adversely impacted by the cash margin requirements of the commodities exchanges or the failure of a counterparty to perform in accordance with a contract. we currently do not qualify any of our commodity or foreign currency exchange derivatives for hedge accounting. we instead mark-to-market our derivatives through the statement of consolidated income, which results in changes in the fair value of all of our derivatives being immediately recognized in consolidated earnings, resulting in potential volatility in both gross profit and net income. these gains and losses are reported in cost of products sold in our statement of consolidated income but are excluded from our segment operating results and non-gaap earnings until the related inventory is sold, at which time the gains and losses are reclassified to segment profit and non-gaap earnings. although this accounting treatment aligns the derivative gains and losses with the underlying exposure being hedged within segment results, it may result in volatility in our consolidated earnings. we may be limited in our ability to pass cost increases on to our customers in the form of price increases or may realize a decrease in sales volume to the extent price increases are implemented. we may not be able to pass some or all of any increases in the price of raw materials, energy, and other input costs to our customers by raising prices. to the extent competitors do not also increase their prices, customers and consumers may choose to purchase competing products or may shift purchases to private label or other lower-priced offerings, which may adversely affect our results of operations. consumers may be less willing or able to pay a price differential for our branded products, and may increasingly purchase lower-priced offerings and may forego some purchases altogether, especially during economic downturns. retailers may also increase levels of promotional activity for lower-priced offerings as they seek to maintain sales volumes during times of economic uncertainty. accordingly, sales volumes of our branded products could be reduced or lead to a shift in sales mix toward our lower-margin offerings. as a result, decreased demand for our products may adversely affect our results of operations. certain of our products are produced at single manufacturing sites. we have consolidated our production capacity for certain products, including substantially all of our coffee, milk-bone dog snacks, fruit spreads, toppings, syrups, and uncrustables frozen sandwiches, into single manufacturing sites. we could experience a production disruption at these or any of our manufacturing sites resulting in a reduction or elimination of the availability of some of our products. if we are not able to obtain alternate production capability in a timely manner, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. 8 a significant interruption in the operation of any of our supply chain or distribution capabilities could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our ability and the ability of our third-party suppliers and service providers, distributors, and contract manufacturers to manufacture, distribute, and sell products is critical to our success. a significant interruption in the operation of any of our manufacturing or distribution capabilities, or the manufacturing or distribution capabilities of our suppliers, distributors, or contract manufacturers, or a service failure by a third-party service provider, whether as a result of adverse weather conditions or a natural disaster, work stoppage, terrorism, pandemic illness, or other causes, could significantly impair our ability to operate our business. notably, substantially all of our coffee production takes place in new orleans, louisiana, which is subject to risks associated with hurricane and other weather-related events. additionally, some of our production facilities are located in places where tornadoes can frequently occur, such as alabama and kansas. failure to take adequate steps to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our business could be harmed by strikes or work stoppages. as of april 30, 2017 , 27 percent of our employees, located at 11 manufacturing facilities, are covered by collective bargaining agreements. these contracts vary in term depending on location, with five contracts expiring in 2018, representing 8 percent of our total employees. we cannot assure that we will be able to renew these collective bargaining agreements on the same or more favorable terms as the current agreements, or at all, without production interruptions caused by labor stoppages. if a strike or work stoppage were to occur in connection with negotiations of new collective bargaining agreements or as a result of disputes under collective bargaining agreements with labor unions, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. our ability to competitively serve customers depends on the availability of reliable transportation. increases in logistics and other transportation-related costs could adversely impact our results of operations. logistics and other transportation-related costs have a significant impact on our earnings and results of operations. we use multiple forms of transportation, including ships, trucks, and railcars, to bring our products to market. disruption to the timely supply of these services or increases in the cost of these services for any reason, including availability or cost of fuel, regulations affecting the industry, labor shortages in the transportation industry, service failures by third-party service providers, accidents, or natural disasters, which may impact the transportation infrastructure or demand for transportation services, could have an adverse effect on our ability to serve our customers, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our operations are subject to the general risks of the food industry. the food industry is subject to risks posed by food spoilage and contamination, product tampering, product recall, and consumer product liability claims. our operations could be impacted by both genuine and fictitious claims regarding our products as well as our competitors' products. in the event of product contamination or tampering, we may need to recall some of our products. a widespread product recall could result in significant loss due to the cost of conducting a product recall, including destruction of inventory and the loss of sales resulting from the unavailability of product for a period of time. we could also suffer losses from a significant product liability judgment against us. a significant product recall or a product liability judgment, involving either us or our competitors, could also result in a loss of consumer confidence in our food products or the food category, and an actual or perceived loss of value of our brands, materially impacting consumer demand. changes in our relationships with significant customers, including the loss of our largest customer, could adversely affect our results of operations. sales to wal-mart stores, inc. and subsidiaries amounted to 30 percent of net sales in 2017 . these sales are primarily included in the u.s. retail market segments. trade receivables at april 30, 2017 , included amounts due from wal-mart stores, inc. and subsidiaries of $138.2 million, or 32 percent of the total trade receivables balance. during 2017 , our top 10 customers, collectively, accounted for approximately 70 percent of consolidated net sales. we expect that a significant portion of our revenues will continue to be derived from a 9 limited number of customers. our customers are generally not contractually obligated to purchase from us. these customers make purchase decisions based on a combination of price, promotional support, product quality, consumer demand, customer service performance, their desired inventory levels, and other factors. changes in customers' strategies, including a reduction in the number of brands they carry or a shift of shelf space to private label products, may adversely affect sales. customers also may respond to price increases by reducing distribution, resulting in reduced sales of our products. additionally, our customers may face financial or other difficulties that may impact their operations and their purchases from us, which could adversely affect our results of operations. a reduction in sales to one or more major customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we operate in the competitive food industry and continued demand for our products may be affected by changes in consumer preferences. we face competition across our product lines from other food companies with the primary methods and factors in competition being product quality, price, packaging, product innovation, nutritional value, convenience, customer service, advertising, and promotion. continued success is dependent on product innovation, the ability to secure and maintain adequate retail shelf space and to compete in new and growing channels, such as e-commerce, and effective and sufficient trade merchandising, advertising, and marketing programs. some of our competitors have substantial financial, marketing, and other resources, and competition with them in our various markets, channels, and product lines could cause us to reduce prices, increase marketing or other expenditures, or lose category share. category share and growth could be adversely impacted if we are not successful in introducing new products. in order to generate future revenues and profits, we must continue to sell products that appeal to our customers and consumers. specifically, there are a number of trends in consumer preferences that may impact us and the food industry as a whole, including convenience, flavor variety, an emphasis on protein and snacking, and the desire for transparent product labeling and simple and natural ingredients. prolonged negative perceptions concerning the health implications of certain food products could influence consumer preferences and acceptance of some of our products and marketing programs. although we strive to respond to consumer preferences and social expectations, we may not be successful in these efforts. increasing public concern regarding health issues and failure to satisfy consumer preferences could decrease demand for certain of our products and adversely affect our profitability. the success of our business depends substantially on consumer perceptions of our brands. we are the branded market leader in several categories both in the u.s. and canada. we believe that maintaining and continually enhancing the value of our brands is critical to the success of our business. brand value is based in large part on consumer perceptions. success in promoting and enhancing brand value depends in large part on our ability to provide high-quality products. brand value could diminish significantly as a result of a number of factors, such as if we fail to preserve the quality of our products, if we are perceived to act in an irresponsible manner, if the company or our brands otherwise receive negative publicity, if our brands fail to deliver a consistently positive consumer experience, or if our products become unavailable to consumers. the growing use of social and digital media by consumers increases the speed and extent that information and opinions can be shared. negative posts or comments about us or our brands or products on social or digital media could damage our brands and reputation. if our brand values are diminished, our revenues and operating results could be materially adversely affected. in addition, anything that harms the pillsbury , dunkin' donuts , carnation , sweet n low , or sugar in the raw brands could adversely affect the success of our exclusive licensing agreements with the owners of these brands. we could be subject to adverse publicity or claims from consumers. certain of our products contain ingredients, the health effects of which are the subject of public scrutiny, including the suggestion that consumption may have adverse health effects. an unfavorable report on the health effects of ingredients present in our products, product recalls, or negative publicity or litigation arising from other health risks could significantly reduce the demand for our products. we may also be subject to complaints from or litigation by consumers who allege food and beverage-related illness, or other quality, health, or operational concerns. adverse publicity resulting from such allegations could materially adversely affect us, regardless of whether such allegations are true or whether we are 10 ultimately held liable. a lawsuit or claim could result in an adverse decision against us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our operations are subject to the general risks associated with acquisitions and divestitures. specifically, we may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of the acquisition of big heart or those benefits may take longer to realize than expected. our stated strategic vision is to own and market a portfolio of food and beverage brands that combines number one and leading brands with emerging, on-trend brands to drive balanced, long-term growth, primarily in north america. we have historically made strategic acquisitions of brands and businesses and intend to do so in the future in support of this strategy. if we are unable to complete acquisitions or to successfully integrate and develop acquired businesses, including the effective management of integration and related restructuring costs, we could fail to achieve the anticipated synergies and cost savings, or the expected increases in revenues and operating results, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. in addition, we have made strategic divestitures of brands and businesses and we may do so in the future. if we are unable to complete divestitures or to successfully transition divested businesses, our business and financial results could be negatively impacted. we may not realize the benefits we expect from our cost reduction initiatives. as part of our organization optimization and cost management programs, we are pursuing a number of initiatives to reduce costs and increase effectiveness. we may not realize all or part of the anticipated cost savings or other benefits from such initiatives. other events and circumstances, such as financial or strategic difficulties, delays, or unexpected costs, may also adversely impact our ability to realize all or part of the anticipated cost savings or other benefits, or cause us not to realize such cost savings or other benefits on the expected timetable. if we are unable to realize the anticipated cost savings, our ability to fund other initiatives may be adversely affected. finally, the complexity of the implementation will require a substantial amount of management and operational resources. our management team must successfully execute the administrative and operational changes necessary to achieve the anticipated benefits of the initiatives. these and related demands on our resources may divert the organization's attention from other business issues, have adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers, and impact employee morale. any failure to implement our cost reduction initiatives in accordance with our plans could adversely affect our business and financial results. weak financial performance, downgrades in our credit ratings, or disruptions in the financial markets may adversely affect our ability to access capital in the future. we may need new or additional financing in the future to conduct our operations, expand our business, or refinance existing indebtedness, which would be dependent upon our financial performance. any downgrade in our credit ratings, particularly our short-term rating, would likely impact the amount of commercial paper we could issue and increase our commercial paper borrowing costs. the liquidity of the overall capital markets and the state of the economy, including the food and beverage industry, may make credit and capital markets more difficult for us to access, even though we have an established revolving credit facility. from time to time, we have relied, and also may rely in the future, on access to financial markets as a source of liquidity for working capital requirements, acquisitions, and general corporate purposes. in particular, our access to funds under our revolving credit facility is dependent on the ability of the financial institutions that are parties to that facility to meet their funding commitments. the obligations of the financial institutions under our revolving credit facility are several and not joint and, as a result, a funding default by one or more institutions does not need to be made up by the others. in addition, long-term volatility and disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation of financial institutions, reduced alternatives, or the failure of significant financial institutions could adversely affect our access to the liquidity needed for our businesses in the longer term. such disruptions could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for our business needs can be arranged. disruptions in the capital and credit markets could also result in higher interest rates on publicly issued debt securities and increased costs under credit facilities. continuation of these disruptions would increase our interest expense and capital costs and could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. 11 our substantial debt obligations could restrict our operations and financial condition. additionally, our ability to generate cash to make payments on our indebtedness depends on many factors beyond our control. as of april 30, 2017 , we had approximately $5.4 billion of short-term borrowings and long-term debt. we may also incur additional indebtedness in the future. our debt service obligations will require us to use a portion of our operating cash flow to pay interest and principal on indebtedness rather than for other corporate purposes, including funding future expansion of our business and ongoing capital expenditures, which could impede our growth. our substantial indebtedness could have other adverse consequences, including: making it more difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations; increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic, regulatory, and industry conditions, and placing us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that are less leveraged; limiting our ability to compete and our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; limiting our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, and general corporate or other purposes; and exposing us to greater interest rate risk, including the risk to variable borrowings of a rate increase and the risk to fixed borrowings of a rate decrease. our ability to make payments on our indebtedness will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. our ability to generate future cash is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations and future borrowings may not be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness when scheduled payments are due or to fund other liquidity needs. in these circumstances, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require make-whole payments and compliance with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. our ability to refinance our indebtedness or obtain additional financing would depend on, among other things, our financial condition at the time, restriction in the agreements governing our indebtedness, and the condition of the financial markets and the industry in which we operate. as a result, we may not be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. without this financing, we may have to seek additional equity or debt financing or restructure our debt, which could harm our long-term business prospects. our failure to comply with the terms of any existing or future indebtedness could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debt. a material impairment in the carrying value of acquired goodwill or other intangible assets could negatively affect our consolidated operating results and net worth. a significant portion of our assets is goodwill and other intangible assets, the majority of which are not amortized but are reviewed for impairment at least annually and more often if indicators of impairment exist. at april 30, 2017 , the carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets totaled $12.2 billion, compared to total assets of $15.6 billion and total shareholders' equity of $6.9 billion. if the carrying value of these assets exceeds the current estimated fair value, the asset is considered impaired and this would result in a noncash charge to earnings, which could be material. any such impairment charge would reduce earnings and could be material. events and conditions that could result in impairment include a sustained drop in the market price of our common shares, increased competition or loss of market share, obsolescence, product claims that result in a significant loss of sales or profitability over the product life, deterioration in macroeconomic conditions, or declining financial performance in comparison to projected results. as a result of the big heart acquisition in 2015, we recognized $3.0 billion of goodwill and$1.5 billion of indefinite-lived intangible assets based on their estimated fair values on the acquisition date. being recently acquired, these assets have been more susceptible to impairment. during 2017, we performed several impairment analyses on the goodwill of the pet foods reporting unit and the indefinite-lived trademarks included within the u.s. retail pet foods segment due to reduced financial projections for the 12 business and changes to other assumptions, most notably an increase in the weighted-average cost of capital used to discount estimates of future cash flows. as a result, impairment charges of $128.5 were recognized in 2017 related to certain indefinite-lived trademarks within the u.s. retail pet foods segment. no impairment charges were recognized on the goodwill of the pet foods reporting unit as a result of the analyses. further changes to the assumptions regarding the future performance of the u.s. retail pet foods segment or its brands, a change to other assumptions, or the failure of any of our reporting units to achieve its anticipated synergies related to the big heart acquisition could result in additional impairment losses in the future, which could be more significant. changes in tax, environmental, or other regulations and laws, or their application, or failure to comply with existing licensing, trade, and other regulations and laws could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. our operations are subject to various regulations and laws administered by federal, state, and local government agencies in the u.s. as well as to regulations and laws administered by government agencies in canada and other countries in which we have operations and our products are sold. in particular, the manufacturing, marketing, packaging, labeling, and distribution of food products are each subject to governmental regulation that is increasingly extensive, encompassing such matters as ingredients (including whether a product contains genetically modified ingredients), packaging, advertising, relations with distributors and retailers, health, safety, and the environment. additionally, we are routinely subject to new or modified tax and securities regulations, other laws and regulations, and accounting and reporting standards. in the u.s., we are required to comply with federal laws, such as the food, drug and cosmetic act, the food safety modernization act, the occupational safety and health act, the clean air act, the clean water act, the resource conservation and recovery act, the tariff act, laws governing equal employment opportunity, and various other federal statutes and regulations. we are also subject to various state and local statutes and regulations. for instance, the california safe drinking water and toxic enforcement act of 1986 (commonly referred to as proposition 65 ) requires that a specific warning appear on any product sold in the state of california that contains a substance listed by that state as having been found to cause cancer or birth defects. this law exposes all food and beverage producers to the possibility of having to provide warnings on their products. the detection of even a trace amount of a listed substance can subject an affected product to the requirement of a warning label. products containing listed substances that occur naturally or that are contributed to such products solely by a municipal water supply are generally exempt from the warning requirement. if we are required to add warning labels to any of our products or place warnings in certain locations where our products are sold as a result of proposition 65, sales of those products could suffer not only in those locations but elsewhere. complying with new regulations and laws, or changes to existing regulations and laws, or their application could increase our production costs or adversely affect our sales of certain products. in addition, our failure or inability to comply with applicable regulations and laws could subject us to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, recalls or seizures, and potential criminal sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. our operations in certain developing markets expose us to regulatory risks. in many countries outside of the u.s., particularly in those with developing economies, it may be common for others to engage in business practices prohibited by laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act or similar local anti-bribery or anti-corruption laws. these laws generally prohibit companies and their employees, contractors, or agents from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. failure to comply with these laws could subject us to civil and criminal penalties that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. changes in climate or legal, regulatory, or market measures to address climate change may negatively affect our business and operations. there is significant political and scientific concern that emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases may alter the composition of the global atmosphere in ways that are affecting and are expected to continue affecting the global climate. the emission of such greenhouse gases may have an adverse impact on 13 global temperatures, weather patterns, and the frequency and severity of extreme weather and natural disasters. in the event that climate change has a negative effect on agricultural productivity, we may be subject to decreased availability or less favorable pricing for certain commodities that are necessary for our products, such as green coffee, grains, peanuts, edible oils, protein meals, sweeteners, and fruit. we may also be subjected to decreased availability or less favorable pricing for water as a result of such change, which could impact our manufacturing and distribution operations. in addition, natural disasters and extreme weather conditions may disrupt the productivity of our facilities or the operation of our supply chain. increasing concern over climate change also may result in more regulatory requirements to reduce or mitigate the effects of greenhouse gases. in the event that such regulations are enacted and are more rigorous than existing regulations, we may experience significant increases in costs of operation and delivery. in particular, increased regulation of utility providers, fuel emissions, or suppliers could substantially increase our operating, distribution, or supply chain costs. we could also face increased costs related to defending and resolving legal claims and other litigation related to climate change. as a result, climate change could negatively affect our results of operations, cash flows, or financial position. if our information technology systems fail to perform adequately or we are unable to protect such information technology systems against data corruption, cyber-based attacks, or network security breaches, our operations could be disrupted, and we may suffer financial damage or loss because of lost or misappropriated information. we rely on information technology networks and systems, including the internet, to process, transmit, and store electronic information. in particular, we depend on our information technology infrastructure to effectively manage our business data, supply chain, logistics, finance, and other business processes and for digital marketing activities and electronic communications between company personnel and our customers and suppliers. if we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build, sustain, and protect an appropriate technology infrastructure, or we do not effectively implement system upgrades, our business or financial results could be negatively impacted. security breaches or system failures of our infrastructure, whether due to attacks by hackers, employee error, or other causes, can create system disruptions, shutdowns, or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. if we are unable to prevent such breaches or failures, our operations could be disrupted, or we may suffer financial damage or loss because of lost or misappropriated information. in addition, we have outsourced several information technology support services and administrative functions, including benefit plan administration and other functions, to third-party service providers, and may outsource other functions in the future to achieve cost savings and efficiencies. if the service providers to which we outsource these functions do not perform effectively, we may not be able to achieve the expected cost savings and may have to incur additional costs to correct errors made by such service providers. depending on the function involved, such errors may also lead to business disruption, processing inefficiencies, the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach, the loss of sensitive data through security breach, or otherwise. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk are incorporated herein by reference to the information set forth in our 2017 annual report to shareholders under the caption derivative financial instruments and market risk. 17risk factors. our business, operations, and financial condition are subject to various risks and uncertainties. the risk factors described below should be carefully considered, together with the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this report and our other filings with the sec, in connection with evaluating the company, our business, and the forward-looking statements contained in this report. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may affect us. the occurrence of any of these known or unknown risks could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we may be unable to grow market share of our products. we operate in the competitive food industry whose growth potential is positively correlated to population growth. our success depends in part on our ability to grow our brands faster than the population in general. we consider our ability to build and sustain the equity of our brands critical to our market share growth. if we do not succeed in these efforts, our market share growth may slow, which could have a material impact on our results of operations. 6 our proprietary brands, packaging designs, and manufacturing methods are essential to the value of our business, and the inability to protect these could harm the value of our brands and adversely affect our sales and profitability. the success of our business depends significantly on our brands, know-how, and other intellectual property. we rely on a combination of trademarks, service marks, trade secrets, patents, copyrights, and similar rights to protect our intellectual property. the success of our growth strategy depends on our continued ability to use our existing trademarks and service marks in order to maintain and increase brand awareness and further develop our brands. if our efforts to protect our intellectual property are not adequate, or if any third party misappropriates or infringes on our intellectual property, the value of our brands may be harmed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. from time to time, we are engaged in litigation to protect our intellectual property, which could result in substantial costs as well as diversion of management attention. in particular, we consider our proprietary coffee roasting methods essential to the consistent flavor and richness of our coffee products and, therefore, essential to our coffee brands. because many of the roasting methods we use are not protected by patents, it may be difficult for us to prevent competitors from copying our roasting methods if such methods become known. we also believe that our packaging innovations, such as our aromaseal canisters, are important to the coffee business' marketing and operational efforts. if our competitors copy our roasting or packaging methods or develop more advanced roasting or packaging methods, the value of our coffee brands may be diminished, and we could lose customers to our competitors. we use a single national broker to represent a portion of our branded products to the retail grocery trade and any failure by the broker to effectively represent us could adversely affect our business. we use a single national broker in the u.s. to represent a portion of our branded products to the retail grocery trade. our business would suffer disruption if this broker were to default in the performance of its obligations to perform brokerage services or if this broker fails to effectively represent us to the retail grocery trade, which could adversely affect our business. loss or interruption of supply from single-source suppliers of raw materials and finished goods could have a disruptive effect on our business and adversely affect our results of operations. we have elected to source certain raw materials, such as packaging for our folgers coffee products, as well as our jif peanut butter and crisco oil products, and finished goods, such as k-cup pods and our pup-peroni dog snacks, from single sources of supply. while we believe that, except as set forth below, alternative sources of these raw materials and finished goods could be obtained on commercially reasonable terms, loss or an extended interruption in supplies from a single-source supplier would result in additional costs, could have a disruptive short-term effect on our business, and could adversely affect our results of operations. keurig is our single-source supplier for k-cup pods, which are used in its proprietary keurig k-cup brewing system. there are a limited number of manufacturers other than keurig that are making cups that will work in such proprietary brewing system. if keurig is unable to supply k-cup pods to us for any reason, it could be difficult to find an alternative supplier for such goods on commercially reasonable terms, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our results may be adversely impacted as a result of increased cost, limited availability, and/or insufficient quality of raw materials, including commodities and agricultural products. we and our business partners purchase and use large quantities of many different commodities and agricultural products in the manufacturing of our products, including green coffee, peanuts, oils and fats, protein meals, sweeteners, grains, and fruit. in addition, we and our business partners utilize significant quantities of plastic, glass, and cardboard to package our products and natural gas and fuel oil to manufacture, package, and distribute our products. the prices of these commodities, agricultural products, and other materials are subject to volatility and can fluctuate due to conditions that are difficult to predict, including global supply and demand, commodity market fluctuations, crop sizes and yield fluctuations, weather, natural disasters, foreign currency fluctuations, investor speculation, trade agreements, political unrest, consumer demand, and changes in governmental agricultural programs. in addition, we compete for certain raw materials, notably corn and soy-based agricultural products, with the biofuels industry, which has resulted in increased prices for these raw materials. additionally, farm acreage currently devoted to other agricultural 7 products we purchase may be utilized for biofuels crops resulting in higher cost for the other agricultural products we utilize. although we use basis, futures, and options contracts to manage commodity price volatility in some instances, commodity price increases ultimately result in corresponding increases in our raw material and energy costs. due to the significance of green coffee to our coffee business, combined with our ability to only partially mitigate future price risk through purchasing practices and hedging activities, significant increases or decreases in the cost of green coffee could have an adverse impact on our profitability, as compared to that of our competitors. in addition, if we are not able to purchase sufficient quantities of green coffee due to any of the above factors or to a worldwide or regional shortage, we may not be able to fulfill the demand for our coffee, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our efforts to manage commodity, foreign currency exchange, and other price volatility through derivative instruments could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we use derivative instruments, including commodity futures and options, to reduce the price volatility associated with anticipated commodity purchases. the extent of our derivative position at any given time depends on our assessment of the markets for these commodities. if we fail to take a derivative position and costs subsequently increase, or if we institute a position and costs subsequently decrease, our costs may be greater than anticipated or higher than our competitors' costs and our financial results could be adversely affected. in addition, our liquidity may be adversely impacted by the cash margin requirements of the commodities exchanges or the failure of a counterparty to perform in accordance with a contract. we currently do not qualify any of our commodity or foreign currency exchange derivatives for hedge accounting. we instead mark-to-market our derivatives through the statement of consolidated income, which results in changes in the fair value of all of our derivatives being immediately recognized in consolidated earnings, resulting in potential volatility in both gross profit and net income. these gains and losses are reported in cost of products sold in our statement of consolidated income but are excluded from our segment operating results and non-gaap earnings until the related inventory is sold, at which time the gains and losses are reclassified to segment profit and non-gaap earnings. although this accounting treatment aligns the derivative gains and losses with the underlying exposure being hedged within segment results, it may result in volatility in our consolidated earnings. we may be limited in our ability to pass cost increases on to our customers in the form of price increases or may realize a decrease in sales volume to the extent price increases are implemented. we may not be able to pass some or all of any increases in the price of raw materials, energy, and other input costs to our customers by raising prices. to the extent competitors do not also increase their prices, customers and consumers may choose to purchase competing products or may shift purchases to private label or other lower-priced offerings, which may adversely affect our results of operations. consumers may be less willing or able to pay a price differential for our branded products, and may increasingly purchase lower-priced offerings and may forego some purchases altogether, especially during economic downturns. retailers may also increase levels of promotional activity for lower-priced offerings as they seek to maintain sales volumes during times of economic uncertainty. accordingly, sales volumes of our branded products could be reduced or lead to a shift in sales mix toward our lower-margin offerings. as a result, decreased demand for our products may adversely affect our results of operations. certain of our products are produced at single manufacturing sites. we have consolidated our production capacity for certain products, including substantially all of our coffee, milk-bone dog snacks, fruit spreads, toppings, syrups, and uncrustables frozen sandwiches, into single manufacturing sites. we could experience a production disruption at these or any of our manufacturing sites resulting in a reduction or elimination of the availability of some of our products. if we are not able to obtain alternate production capability in a timely manner, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. 8 a significant interruption in the operation of any of our supply chain or distribution capabilities could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our ability and the ability of our third-party suppliers and service providers, distributors, and contract manufacturers to manufacture, distribute, and sell products is critical to our success. a significant interruption in the operation of any of our manufacturing or distribution capabilities, or the manufacturing or distribution capabilities of our suppliers, distributors, or contract manufacturers, or a service failure by a third-party service provider, whether as a result of adverse weather conditions or a natural disaster, work stoppage, terrorism, pandemic illness, or other causes, could significantly impair our ability to operate our business. notably, substantially all of our coffee production takes place in new orleans, louisiana, which is subject to risks associated with hurricane and other weather-related events. additionally, some of our production facilities are located in places where tornadoes can frequently occur, such as alabama and kansas. failure to take adequate steps to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our business could be harmed by strikes or work stoppages. as of april 30, 2018 , 28 percent of our full-time employees, located at 10 manufacturing locations, are covered by collective bargaining agreements. these contracts vary in term depending on location, with one contract expiring in 2019, representing less than 1 percent of our total employees. we cannot assure that we will be able to renew these collective bargaining agreements on the same or more favorable terms as the current agreements, or at all, without production interruptions caused by labor stoppages. if a strike or work stoppage were to occur in connection with negotiations of new collective bargaining agreements or as a result of disputes under collective bargaining agreements with labor unions, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. our ability to competitively serve customers depends on the availability of reliable transportation. increases in logistics and other transportation-related costs could adversely impact our results of operations. logistics and other transportation-related costs have a significant impact on our earnings and results of operations. we use multiple forms of transportation, including ships, trucks, and railcars, to bring our products to market. disruption to the timely supply of these services or increases in the cost of these services for any reason, including availability or cost of fuel, regulations affecting the industry, labor shortages in the transportation industry, service failures by third-party service providers, accidents, or natural disasters, which may impact the transportation infrastructure or demand for transportation services, could have an adverse effect on our ability to serve our customers, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our operations are subject to the general risks of the food industry. the food industry is subject to risks posed by food spoilage and contamination, product tampering, product recall, and consumer product liability claims. our operations could be impacted by both genuine and fictitious claims regarding our products as well as our competitors' products. in the event of product contamination or tampering, we may need to recall some of our products. a widespread product recall could result in significant loss due to the cost of conducting a product recall, including destruction of inventory and the loss of sales resulting from the unavailability of product for a period of time. we could also suffer losses from a significant product liability judgment against us. a significant product recall or a product liability judgment, involving either us or our competitors, could also result in a loss of consumer confidence in our food products or the food category, and an actual or perceived loss of value of our brands, materially impacting consumer demand. changes in our relationships with significant customers, including the loss of our largest customer, could adversely affect our results of operations. sales to walmart inc. and subsidiaries amounted to 31 percent of net sales in 2018 . these sales are primarily included in the u.s. retail market segments. trade receivables at april 30, 2018 , included amounts due from walmart inc. and subsidiaries of $123.1 million, or 32 percent of the total trade receivables balance. during 2018 , our top 10 customers, collectively, accounted for approximately 60 percent of consolidated net sales. we expect that a significant portion of our revenues will continue to be derived from a limited number of 9 customers. our customers are generally not contractually obligated to purchase from us. these customers make purchase decisions based on a combination of price, promotional support, product quality, consumer demand, customer service performance, their desired inventory levels, and other factors. changes in customers' strategies, including a reduction in the number of brands they carry or a shift of shelf space to private label products, may adversely affect sales. customers also may respond to price increases by reducing distribution, resulting in reduced sales of our products. additionally, our customers may face financial or other difficulties that may impact their operations and their purchases from us, which could adversely affect our results of operations. a reduction in sales to one or more major customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we operate in the competitive food industry and continued demand for our products may be affected by changes in consumer preferences. we face competition across our product lines from other food companies with the primary methods and factors in competition being product quality, price, packaging, product innovation, nutritional value, convenience, customer service, advertising, and promotion. continued success is dependent on product innovation, the ability to secure and maintain adequate retail shelf space and to compete in new and growing channels, such as e-commerce, and effective and sufficient trade merchandising, advertising, and marketing programs. some of our competitors have substantial financial, marketing, and other resources, and competition with them in our various markets, channels, and product lines could cause us to reduce prices, increase marketing or other expenditures, or lose category share. category share and growth could be adversely impacted if we are not successful in introducing new products. introduction of new products and product extensions requires significant development and marketing investment. if our products fail to meet consumer preferences, or we fail to introduce new and improved products on a timely basis, then the return on that investment will be less than anticipated and our strategy to grow sales and profits through investment in innovation will be less successful. in order to generate future revenues and profits, we must continue to sell products that appeal to our customers and consumers. specifically, there are a number of trends in consumer preferences that may impact us and the food industry as a whole, including convenience, flavor variety, an emphasis on protein and snacking, and the desire for transparent product labeling and simple and natural ingredients. prolonged negative perceptions concerning the health implications of certain food products could influence consumer preferences and acceptance of some of our products and marketing programs. although we strive to respond to consumer preferences and social expectations, we may not be successful in these efforts. increasing public concern regarding health issues and failure to satisfy consumer preferences could decrease demand for certain of our products and adversely affect our profitability. the success of our business depends substantially on consumer perceptions of our brands. we are the branded market leader in several categories both in the u.s. and canada. we believe that maintaining and continually enhancing the value of our brands is critical to the success of our business. brand value is based in large part on consumer perceptions. success in promoting and enhancing brand value depends in large part on our ability to provide high-quality products. brand value could diminish significantly as a result of a number of factors, such as if we fail to preserve the quality of our products, if we are perceived to act in an irresponsible manner, if the company or our brands otherwise receive negative publicity, if our brands fail to deliver a consistently positive consumer experience, or if our products become unavailable to consumers. the growing use of social and digital media by consumers increases the speed and extent that information and opinions can be shared. negative posts or comments about us or our brands or products on social or digital media could damage our brands and reputation. if our brand values are diminished, our revenues and operating results could be materially adversely affected. in addition, anything that harms the dunkin' donuts , rachael ray , pillsbury , carnation , sweet n low , or sugar in the raw brands could adversely affect the success of our exclusive licensing agreements with the owners of these brands. we could be subject to adverse publicity or claims from consumers. certain of our products contain ingredients, the health effects of which are the subject of public scrutiny, including the suggestion that consumption may have adverse health effects. an unfavorable report on the 10 health effects of ingredients present in our products, product recalls, or negative publicity or litigation arising from other health risks could significantly reduce the demand for our products. we may also be subject to complaints from or litigation by consumers who allege food and beverage-related illness, or other quality, health, or operational concerns. adverse publicity resulting from such allegations could materially adversely affect us, regardless of whether such allegations are true or whether we are ultimately held liable. a lawsuit or claim could result in an adverse decision against us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our operations are subject to the general risks associated with acquisitions and divestitures. specifically, we may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of the ainsworth acquisition or those benefits may take longer to realize than expected. we may also encounter significant unexpected difficulties in integrating the ainsworth business. our stated strategic vision is to own and market a portfolio of food and beverage brands that combines number one and leading brands with emerging, on-trend brands to drive balanced, long-term growth, primarily in north america. we have historically made strategic acquisitions of brands and businesses and intend to do so in the future in support of this strategy. if we are unable to complete acquisitions or to successfully integrate and develop acquired businesses, including the effective management of integration and related restructuring costs, we could fail to achieve the anticipated synergies and cost savings, or the expected increases in revenues and operating results, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. in particular, our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the ainsworth acquisition will depend, to a large extent, on our ability to integrate the ainsworth business into smucker. the combination of two independent businesses is a complex, costly, and time-consuming process. as a result, we will be required to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating ainsworth's business practices and operations with our business practices and operations. the integration process may disrupt the businesses and, if implemented ineffectively or if impacted by unforeseen negative economic or market conditions or other factors, we may not realize the full anticipated benefits, cost savings, synergies, business opportunities, and growth prospects of the acquisition. our failure to meet the challenges involved in integrating the two businesses to realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition could cause an interruption of, or a loss of momentum in, our activities and could adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, we have made strategic divestitures of brands and businesses, including a potential divestiture of our u.s. baking business, and we may do so in the future. if we are unable to complete divestitures or to successfully transition divested businesses, our business and financial results could be negatively impacted. we may not realize the benefits we expect from our cost reduction initiatives. as part of our organization optimization and cost management programs, we are pursuing a number of initiatives to reduce costs and increase effectiveness. we may not realize all or part of the anticipated cost savings or other benefits from such initiatives. other events and circumstances, such as financial or strategic difficulties, delays, or unexpected costs, may also adversely impact our ability to realize all or part of the anticipated cost savings or other benefits, or cause us not to realize such cost savings or other benefits on the expected timetable. if we are unable to realize the anticipated cost savings, our ability to fund other initiatives may be adversely affected. finally, the complexity of the implementation will require a substantial amount of management and operational resources. our management team must successfully execute the administrative and operational changes necessary to achieve the anticipated benefits of the initiatives. these and related demands on our resources may divert the organization's attention from other business issues, have adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers, and impact employee morale. any failure to implement our cost reduction initiatives in accordance with our plans could adversely affect our business and financial results. weak financial performance, downgrades in our credit ratings, or disruptions in the financial markets may adversely affect our ability to access capital in the future. we may need new or additional financing in the future to conduct our operations, expand our business, or refinance existing indebtedness, which would be dependent upon our financial performance. any downgrade in our credit ratings, particularly our short-term rating, would likely impact the amount of commercial paper we could issue and increase our commercial paper borrowing costs. the liquidity of the overall capital 11 markets and the state of the economy, including the food and beverage industry, may make credit and capital markets more difficult for us to access, even though we have an established revolving credit facility. from time to time, we have relied, and also may rely in the future, on access to financial markets as a source of liquidity for working capital requirements, acquisitions, and general corporate purposes. in particular, our access to funds under our revolving credit facility is dependent on the ability of the financial institutions that are parties to that facility to meet their funding commitments. the obligations of the financial institutions under our revolving credit facility are several and not joint and, as a result, a funding default by one or more institutions does not need to be made up by the others. in addition, long-term volatility and disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation of financial institutions, reduced alternatives, or the failure of significant financial institutions could adversely affect our access to the liquidity needed for our businesses in the longer term. such disruptions could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for our business needs can be arranged. disruptions in the capital and credit markets could also result in higher interest rates on publicly issued debt securities and increased costs under credit facilities. continuation of these disruptions would increase our interest expense and capital costs and could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. our substantial debt obligations could restrict our operations and financial condition. additionally, our ability to generate cash to make payments on our indebtedness depends on many factors beyond our control. as of april 30, 2018 , we had approximately $4.8 billion of short-term borrowings and long-term debt. subsequently, on may 14, 2018, we borrowed $1.9 billion to finance the ainsworth acquisition. we may also incur additional indebtedness in the future. our debt service obligations will require us to use a portion of our operating cash flow to pay interest and principal on indebtedness rather than for other corporate purposes, including funding future expansion of our business and ongoing capital expenditures, which could impede our growth. our substantial indebtedness could have other adverse consequences, including: making it more difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations; increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic, regulatory, and industry conditions, and placing us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that are less leveraged; limiting our ability to compete and our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; limiting our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, and general corporate or other purposes; and exposing us to greater interest rate risk, including the risk to variable borrowings of a rate increase and the risk to fixed borrowings of a rate decrease. our ability to make payments on our indebtedness will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. our ability to generate future cash is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations and future borrowings may not be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness when scheduled payments are due or to fund other liquidity needs. in these circumstances, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require make-whole payments and compliance with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. our ability to refinance our indebtedness or obtain additional financing would depend on, among other things, our financial condition at the time, restriction in the agreements governing our indebtedness, and the condition of the financial markets and the industry in which we operate. as a result, we may not be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. without this financing, we may have to seek additional equity or debt financing or restructure our debt, which could harm our long-term business prospects. our failure to comply with the terms of any existing or future indebtedness could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of the payment of all of our debt. a material impairment in the carrying value of acquired goodwill or other intangible assets could negatively affect our consolidated operating results and net worth. 12 a significant portion of our assets is goodwill and other intangible assets, the majority of which are not amortized but are reviewed for impairment at least annually and more often if indicators of impairment exist. at april 30, 2018 , the carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets totaled $11.9 billion, compared to total assets of $15.3 billion and total shareholders' equity of $7.9 billion. if the carrying value of these assets exceeds the current estimated fair value, the asset is considered impaired, and this would result in a noncash charge to earnings, which could be material. events and conditions that could result in impairment include a sustained drop in the market price of our common shares, increased competition or loss of market share, obsolescence, product claims that result in a significant loss of sales or profitability over the product life, deterioration in macroeconomic conditions, or declining financial performance in comparison to projected results. as a result of the big heart acquisition in 2015, we recognized $3.0 billion of goodwill and $1.5 billion of other indefinite-lived intangible assets based on their estimated fair values on the acquisition date. during 2017, we recognized total impairment charges of $128.5 related to certain indefinite-lived trademarks within the u.s. retail pet foods segment. during the third quarter of 2018, we performed an interim impairment analysis on the goodwill of the pet foods reporting unit and the indefinite-lived trademarks included within the u.s. retail pet foods segment due to a decline in forecasted net sales for the u.s. retail pet foods segment, as well as the narrow differences between estimated fair value and carrying value. as a result, we recognized total impairment charges of $176.9, of which $145.0 and $31.9 related to the goodwill of the pet foods reporting unit and certain indefinite-lived trademarks within the u.s. retail pet foods segment, respectively, to the extent the carrying values exceeded the estimated fair values. the goodwill and indefinite-lived trademarks within the u.s. retail pet foods segment remain susceptible to future impairment charges as the carrying values approximate estimated fair values at april 30, 2018 . in addition, any meaningful adverse change to our near or long-term projections or macro-economic conditions could result in future impair ment charges. further changes to the assumptions regarding the future performance of the u.s. retail pet foods segment or its brands or a change to other assumptions could result in additional impairment losses in the future, which could be more significant. in addition, as a result of the ainsworth acquisition in may 2018, we will recognize additional goodwill and other intangible assets, which will be included within the u.s. retail pet foods reportable segment, based on their estimated fair values on the acquisition date. since carrying value will represent estimated fair value, these assets could be more susceptible to future impairment. a change to the assumptions regarding future performance of the business, or a portion of it, or a change to other assumptions, could result in significant impairment losses in the future. changes in tax, environmental, or other regulations and laws, or their application, or failure to comply with existing licensing, trade, and other regulations and laws could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. our operations are subject to various regulations and laws administered by federal, state, and local government agencies in the u.s. as well as to regulations and laws administered by government agencies in canada and other countries in which we have operations and our products are sold. in particular, the manufacturing, marketing, packaging, labeling, and distribution of food products are each subject to governmental regulation that is increasingly extensive, encompassing such matters as ingredients (including whether a product contains genetically modified ingredients), packaging, advertising, relations with distributors and retailers, health, safety, and the environment. additionally, we are routinely subject to new or modified tax and securities regulations, other laws and regulations, and accounting and reporting standards. in the u.s., we are required to comply with federal laws, such as the food, drug and cosmetic act, the food safety modernization act, the occupational safety and health act, the clean air act, the clean water act, the resource conservation and recovery act, the tariff act, laws governing equal employment opportunity, and various other federal statutes and regulations. we are also subject to various state and local statutes and regulations. for instance, the california safe drinking water and toxic enforcement act of 1986 (better known as proposition 65 ) requires that a specific warning appear on any product sold in the state of california that contains a substance listed by that state as having been found to cause cancer or birth defects. this law exposes all food and beverage producers to the possibility of having to provide warnings on their products, as well as civil penalties. the detection of even a trace amount of a listed substance can subject an affected product to the requirement of a warning label. products containing listed substances that occur naturally or that are contributed to such products solely by a municipal water supply are generally exempt 13 from the warning requirement. in particular, we are currently a defendant in council for education and research on toxics v. brad barry llc, et al. , which alleges that we, in addition to nearly eighty other defendants who manufacture, package, distribute, or sell coffee, failed to warn persons in california that our coffee products expose persons to the chemical acrylamide, which is not added to coffee but is present in all coffee in small amounts (measured in parts per billion) as a byproduct of the coffee bean roasting process, in violation of proposition 65. if we are required to pay significant statutory penalties or to add warning labels to any of our products or place warnings in certain locations where our products are sold as a result of proposition 65, our business and financial results could be adversely impacted and sales of those products could suffer not only in those locations but elsewhere. complying with new regulations and laws, or changes to existing regulations and laws, or their application could increase our production costs or adversely affect our sales of certain products. in addition, our failure or inability to comply with applicable regulations and laws could subject us to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, recalls or seizures, and potential criminal sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. our operations in certain developing markets expose us to regulatory risks. in many countries outside of the u.s., particularly in those with developing economies, it may be common for others to engage in business practices prohibited by laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act or similar local anti-bribery or anti-corruption laws. these laws generally prohibit companies and their employees, contractors, or agents from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. failure to comply with these laws could subject us to civil and criminal penalties that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. changes in climate or legal, regulatory, or market measures to address climate change may negatively affect our business and operations. there is significant political and scientific concern that emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases may alter the composition of the global atmosphere in ways that are affecting and are expected to continue affecting the global climate. the emission of such greenhouse gases may have an adverse impact on global temperatures, weather patterns, and the frequency and severity of extreme weather and natural disasters. in the event that climate change has a negative effect on agricultural productivity, we may be subject to decreased availability or less favorable pricing for certain commodities that are necessary for our products, such as green coffee, peanuts, oils and fats, protein meals, sweeteners, grains, and fruit. we may also be subjected to decreased availability or less favorable pricing for water as a result of such change, which could impact our manufacturing and distribution operations. in addition, natural disasters and extreme weather conditions may disrupt the productivity of our facilities or the operation of our supply chain. increasing concern over climate change also may result in more regulatory requirements to reduce or mitigate the effects of greenhouse gases. in the event that such regulations are enacted and are more rigorous than existing regulations, we may experience significant increases in costs of operation and delivery. in particular, increased regulation of utility providers, fuel emissions, or suppliers could substantially increase our operating, distribution, or supply chain costs. we could also face increased costs related to defending and resolving legal claims and other litigation related to climate change. as a result, climate change could negatively affect our results of operations, cash flows, or financial position. if our information technology systems fail to perform adequately or we are unable to protect such information technology systems against data corruption, cyber-based attacks, or network security breaches, our operations could be disrupted, and we may suffer financial damage or loss because of lost or misappropriated information. we rely on information technology networks and systems, including the internet, to process, transmit, and store electronic information. in particular, we depend on our information technology infrastructure to effectively manage our business data, supply chain, logistics, finance, and other business processes and for digital marketing activities and electronic communications between company personnel and our customers and suppliers. if we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build, sustain, and protect an appropriate technology infrastructure, or we do not effectively implement system upgrades, our 14 business or financial results could be negatively impacted. security breaches or system failures of our infrastructure, whether due to attacks by hackers, employee error, or other causes, can create system disruptions, shutdowns, or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. if we are unable to prevent such breaches or failures, our operations could be disrupted, or we may suffer financial damage or loss because of lost or misappropriated information. in addition, we have outsourced several information technology support services and administrative functions, including benefit plan administration and other functions, to third-party service providers, and may outsource other functions in the future to achieve cost savings and efficiencies. in addition, certain of our processes rely on third-party cloud computing services. if the service providers to which we outsource these functions do not perform effectively, we may not be able to achieve the expected cost savings and may have to incur additional costs to correct errors made by such service providers. depending on the function involved, such errors may also lead to business disruption, processing inefficiencies, the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach, the loss of sensitive data through security breach, or otherwise. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk are incorporated herein by reference to the information set forth in our 2018 annual report to shareholders under the caption derivative financial instruments and market risk.risk factors 7 risk factors. our business, operations, and financial condition are subject to various risks and uncertainties. the risk factors described below should be carefully considered, together with the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this annual report on form 10-k and our other filings with the sec, in connection with evaluating the company, our business, and the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may affect us. the occurrence of any of these known or unknown risks could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we may be unable to grow market share of our products. we operate in the competitive food industry whose growth potential is positively correlated to population growth. our success depends in part on our ability to grow our brands faster than the population in general. we consider our ability to build and sustain the equity of our brands critical to our market share growth. if we do not succeed in these efforts, our market share growth may slow, which could have a material impact on our results of operations. our proprietary brands, packaging designs, and manufacturing methods are essential to the value of our business, and the inability to protect these could harm the value of our brands and adversely affect our sales and profitability. the success of our business depends significantly on our brands, know-how, and other intellectual property. we rely on a combination of trademarks, service marks, trade secrets, patents, copyrights, and similar rights to protect our intellectual property. the success of our growth strategy depends on our continued ability to use our existing trademarks and service marks in order to maintain and increase brand awareness and further develop our brands. if our efforts to protect our intellectual property are not adequate, or if any third party misappropriates or infringes on our intellectual property, the value of our brands may be harmed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. from time to time, we are engaged in litigation to protect our intellectual property, which could result in substantial costs as well as diversion of management attention. in particular, we consider our proprietary coffee roasting methods essential to the consistent flavor and richness of our coffee products and, therefore, essential to our coffee brands. because many of the roasting methods we use are not protected by patents, it may be difficult for us to prevent competitors from copying our roasting methods if such methods become known. we also believe that our packaging innovations, such as our aromaseal canisters, are important to the coffee business' marketing and operational efforts. if our competitors copy our roasting or packaging methods or develop more advanced roasting or packaging methods, the value of our coffee brands may be diminished, and we could lose customers to our competitors. 7 we use a single national broker to represent a portion of our branded products to the retail grocery trade and any failure by the broker to effectively represent us could adversely affect our business. we use a single national broker in the u.s. to represent a portion of our branded products to the retail grocery trade. our business would suffer disruption if this broker were to fail to perform brokerage services or to effectively represent us to the retail grocery trade, which could adversely affect our business. loss or interruption of supply from single-source suppliers of raw materials and finished goods could have a disruptive effect on our business and adversely affect our results of operations. we have elected to source certain raw materials, such as packaging for our folgers coffee products, as well as our jif peanut butter and crisco oil products, and finished goods, such as k-cup pods and our pup-peroni dog snacks, from single sources of supply. while we believe that, except as set forth below, alternative sources of these raw materials and finished goods could be obtained on commercially reasonable terms, loss or an extended interruption in supplies from a single-source supplier would result in additional costs, could have a disruptive short-term effect on our business, and could adversely affect our results of operations. keurig is our single-source supplier for k-cup pods, which are used in its proprietary keurig k-cup brewing system. there are a limited number of manufacturers other than keurig that are making cups that will work in such proprietary brewing system. if keurig is unable to supply k-cup pods to us for any reason, it could be difficult to find an alternative supplier for such goods on commercially reasonable terms, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our results may be adversely impacted as a result of increased cost, limited availability, and/or insufficient quality of raw materials, including commodities and agricultural products. we and our business partners purchase and use large quantities of many different commodities and agricultural products in the manufacturing of our products, including green coffee, peanuts, animal protein meals, oils and fats, sweeteners, grains, and fruit. in addition, we and our business partners utilize significant quantities of plastic, glass, and cardboard to package our products and natural gas and fuel oil to manufacture, package, and distribute our products. the prices of these commodities, agricultural products, and other materials are subject to volatility and can fluctuate due to conditions that are difficult to predict, including global supply and demand, commodity market fluctuations, crop sizes and yield fluctuations, weather, natural disasters, foreign currency fluctuations, investor speculation, trade agreements, political unrest, consumer demand, and changes in governmental agricultural programs. in addition, we compete for certain raw materials, notably corn and soy-based agricultural products, with the biofuels industry, which has resulted in increased prices for these raw materials. additionally, farm acreage currently devoted to other agricultural products we purchase may be utilized for biofuels crops resulting in higher costs for the other agricultural products we utilize. although we use basis, futures, options, and fixed price contracts to manage commodity price volatility in some instances, commodity price increases ultimately result in corresponding increases in our raw material and energy costs. due to the significance of green coffee to our coffee business, combined with our ability to only partially mitigate future price risk through purchasing practices and hedging activities, significant increases or decreases in the cost of green coffee could have an adverse impact on our profitability, as compared to that of our competitors. in addition, if we are not able to purchase sufficient quantities of green coffee due to any of the above factors or to a worldwide or regional shortage, we may not be able to fulfill the demand for our coffee, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our efforts to manage commodity, foreign currency exchange, and other price volatility through derivative instruments could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we use derivative instruments, including commodity futures and options, to reduce the price volatility associated with anticipated commodity purchases. the extent of our derivative position at any given time depends on our assessment of the markets for these commodities. if we fail to take a derivative position and costs subsequently increase, or if we institute a position and costs subsequently decrease, our costs may be greater than anticipated or higher than our competitors' costs and our financial results could be adversely affected. in addition, our liquidity may be adversely impacted by the cash margin requirements of the commodities exchanges or the failure of a counterparty to perform in accordance with a contract. 8 we currently do not qualify any of our commodity or foreign currency exchange derivatives for hedge accounting. we instead mark-to-market our derivatives through the statement of consolidated income, which results in changes in the fair value of all of our derivatives being immediately recognized in consolidated earnings, resulting in potential volatility in both gross profit and net income. these gains and losses are reported in cost of products sold in our statement of consolidated income but are excluded from our segment operating results and non-gaap earnings until the related inventory is sold, at which time the gains and losses are reclassified to segment profit and non-gaap earnings. although this accounting treatment aligns the derivative gains and losses with the underlying exposure being hedged within segment results, it may result in volatility in our consolidated earnings. we may be limited in our ability to pass cost increases on to our customers in the form of price increases or may realize a decrease in sales volume to the extent price increases are implemented. we may not be able to pass some or all of any increases in the price of raw materials, energy, and other input costs to our customers by raising prices. to the extent competitors do not also increase their prices, customers and consumers may choose to purchase competing products or may shift purchases to private label or other lower-priced offerings, which may adversely affect our results of operations. consumers may be less willing or able to pay a price differential for our branded products and may increasingly purchase lower-priced offerings and may forego some purchases altogether, especially during economic downturns. retailers may also increase levels of promotional activity for lower-priced offerings as they seek to maintain sales volumes during times of economic uncertainty. accordingly, sales volumes of our branded products could be reduced or lead to a shift in sales mix toward our lower-margin offerings. as a result, decreased demand for our products may adversely affect our results of operations. certain of our products are produced at single manufacturing sites. we have consolidated our production capacity for certain products into single manufacturing sites, including substantially all of our coffee, milk-bone dog snacks, fruit spreads, toppings, and syrups. we could experience a production disruption at these or any of our manufacturing sites resulting in a reduction or elimination of the availability of some of our products. if we are not able to obtain alternate production capability in a timely manner, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. a significant interruption in the operation of any of our supply chain or distribution capabilities could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our ability and the ability of our third-party suppliers and service providers, distributors, and contract manufacturers to manufacture, distribute, and sell products is critical to our success. a significant interruption in the operation of any of our manufacturing or distribution capabilities, or the manufacturing or distribution capabilities of our suppliers, distributors, or contract manufacturers, or a service failure by a third-party service provider, whether as a result of adverse weather conditions or a natural disaster, work stoppage, terrorism, pandemic illness, or other causes, could significantly impair our ability to operate our business. notably, substantially all of our coffee production takes place in new orleans, louisiana, which is subject to risks associated with hurricane and other weather-related events. additionally, some of our production facilities are located in places where tornadoes or wildfires can frequently occur, such as alabama, kansas, and california. failure to take adequate steps to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our business could be harmed by strikes or work stoppages. as of april 30, 2019 , 24 percent of our full-time employees, located at nine manufacturing locations, are covered by collective bargaining agreements. these contracts vary in term depending on location, with seven contracts expiring in 2020, representing 19 percent of our total employees. we cannot assure that we will be able to renew these collective bargaining agreements on the same or more favorable terms as the current agreements, or at all, without production interruptions caused by labor stoppages. if a strike or work stoppage were to occur in connection with negotiations of new collective bargaining agreements or as a result of disputes under collective bargaining agreements with labor unions, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 9 our ability to competitively serve customers depends on the availability of reliable transportation. increases in logistics and other transportation-related costs could adversely impact our results of operations. logistics and other transportation-related costs have a significant impact on our earnings and results of operations. we use multiple forms of transportation, including ships, trucks, and railcars, to bring our products to market. disruption to the timely supply of these services or increases in the cost of these services for any reason, including availability or cost of fuel, regulations affecting the industry, labor shortages in the transportation industry, service failures by third-party service providers, accidents, or natural disasters, which may impact the transportation infrastructure or demand for transportation services, could have an adverse effect on our ability to serve our customers, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our operations are subject to the general risks of the food industry. the food industry is subject to risks posed by food spoilage and contamination, product tampering, product recall, and consumer product liability claims. our operations could be impacted by both genuine and fictitious claims regarding our products as well as our competitors' products. in the event of product contamination or tampering, we may need to recall some of our products. a widespread product recall could result in significant loss due to the cost of conducting a product recall, including destruction of inventory and the loss of sales resulting from the unavailability of product for a period of time. we could also suffer losses from a significant product liability judgment against us. a significant product recall or a product liability judgment, involving either us or our competitors, could also result in a loss of consumer confidence in our food products or the food category, and an actual or perceived loss of value of our brands, materially impacting consumer demand. changes in our relationships with significant customers, including the loss of our largest customer, could adversely affect our results of operations. sales to walmart inc. and subsidiaries amounted to 32 percent of net sales in 2019 . these sales are primarily included in the u.s. retail market segments. trade receivables at april 30, 2019 , included amounts due from walmart inc. and subsidiaries of $137.7 million, or 27 percent of the total trade receivables balance. during 2019 , our top 10 customers, collectively, accounted for approximately 60 percent of consolidated net sales. we expect that a significant portion of our revenues will continue to be derived from a limited number of customers. our customers are generally not contractually obligated to purchase from us. these customers make purchase decisions based on a combination of price, promotional support, product quality, consumer demand, customer service performance, their desired inventory levels, and other factors. changes in customers' strategies, including a reduction in the number of brands they carry or a shift of shelf space to private label products, may adversely affect sales. customers also may respond to price increases by reducing distribution, resulting in reduced sales of our products. additionally, our customers may face financial or other difficulties that may impact their operations and their purchases from us, which could adversely affect our results of operations. a reduction in sales to one or more major customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we operate in the competitive food industry and continued demand for our products may be affected by our failure to effectively compete or by changes in consumer preferences. we face competition across our product lines from other food companies with the primary methods and factors in competition being product quality, price, packaging, product innovation, nutritional value, convenience, customer service, advertising, and promotion. continued success is dependent on product innovation, the ability to secure and maintain adequate retail shelf space and to compete in new and growing channels, and effective and sufficient trade merchandising, advertising, and marketing programs. in particular, technology-based systems, which give consumers the ability to shop through e-commerce websites and mobile commerce applications, are also significantly altering the retail landscape in many of our markets. we are committed to expanding our presence in e-commerce, transforming our manufacturing, commercial, and corporate operations through digital technologies, and enhancing our data analytics capabilities to develop new commercial insights. however, if we are unable to effectively compete in the expanding e-commerce market, adequately leverage technology to improve operating efficiencies, or develop the data analytics capabilities needed to generate actionable commercial insights, our business performance may be impacted, which may negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. some of our competitors have substantial financial, marketing, and other resources, and competition with them in our various markets, channels, and product lines could cause us to reduce prices, increase marketing or other expenditures, or lose category share. category share and growth could also be adversely impacted if we are not successful in introducing new 10 products. introduction of new products and product extensions requires significant development and marketing investment. if our products fail to meet consumer preferences, or we fail to introduce new and improved products on a timely basis, then the return on that investment will be less than anticipated and our strategy to grow sales and profits through investment in innovation will be less successful. in order to generate future revenues and profits, we must continue to sell products that appeal to our customers and consumers. specifically, there are a number of trends in consumer preferences that may impact us and the food industry as a whole, including convenience, flavor variety, an emphasis on protein and snacking, and the desire for transparent product labeling and simple and natural ingredients. the success of our business depends substantially on consumer perceptions of our brands. we are the branded market leader in several categories both in the u.s. and canada. we believe that maintaining and continually enhancing the value of our brands is critical to the success of our business. brand value is based in large part on consumer perceptions. success in promoting and enhancing brand value depends in large part on our ability to provide high-quality products. brand value could diminish significantly as a result of a number of factors, such as if we fail to preserve the quality of our products, if we are perceived to act in an irresponsible manner, if the company or our brands otherwise receive negative publicity, if our brands fail to deliver a consistently positive consumer experience, or if our products become unavailable to consumers. the growing use of social and digital media by consumers increases the speed and extent that information and opinions can be shared. negative posts or comments about us or our brands or products on social or digital media could damage our brands and reputation. if we are unable to build and sustain brand equity by offering recognizably superior products, we may be unable to maintain premium pricing over generic and private label products. if our brand values are diminished, our revenues and operating results could be materially adversely affected. in addition, anything that harms the dunkin' donuts or rachael ray brands could adversely affect the success of our exclusive licensing agreements with the owners of these brands. we could be subject to adverse publicity or claims from consumers. certain of our products contain ingredients which are the subject of public scrutiny, including the suggestion that consumption may have adverse health effects. although we strive to respond to consumer preferences and social expectations, we may not be successful in these efforts. an unfavorable report on the effects of ingredients present in our products, product recalls, or negative publicity or litigation could influence consumer preferences, significantly reduce the demand for our products, and adversely affect our profitability. we may also be subject to complaints from or litigation by consumers who allege food and beverage-related illness, or other quality, health, or operational concerns. adverse publicity resulting from such allegations could materially adversely affect us, regardless of whether such allegations are true or whether we are ultimately held liable. a lawsuit or claim could result in an adverse decision against us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we may not be able to attract, develop, and retain the highly skilled people we need to support our business. we depend on the skills and continued service of key employees, including our experienced management team. in addition, our ability to achieve our strategic and operating goals depends on our ability to identify, recruit, hire, train, and retain qualified individuals. we compete with other companies both within and outside of our industry for talented people, and we may lose key employees or fail to attract, recruit, train, develop, and retain other talented individuals. any such loss, failure, or negative perception with respect to these individuals may adversely affect our business or financial results. in addition, activities related to identifying, recruiting, hiring, integrating, and training qualified individuals may require significant time and expense. we may not be able to locate suitable replacements for any key employees who leave or offer employment to potential replacements on reasonable terms, each of which may adversely affect our business and financial results. our operations are subject to the general risks associated with acquisitions and divestitures. specifically, we may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of the ainsworth acquisition or those benefits may take longer to realize than expected. our stated strategic vision is to own and market a portfolio of food and beverage brands that combines number one and leading brands with emerging, on-trend brands to drive balanced, long-term growth, primarily in north america. we have historically made strategic acquisitions of brands and businesses, including ainsworth, and intend to do so in the future in support of this strategy. if we are unable to complete acquisitions or to successfully integrate and develop acquired businesses, including the effective management of integration and related restructuring costs, we could fail to achieve the 11 anticipated synergies and cost savings, or the expected increases in revenues and operating results, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. in addition, we have made strategic divestitures of brands and businesses, including the sale of our u.s. baking business, and we may do so in the future. if we are unable to complete divestitures or to successfully transition divested businesses, including the effective management of the related separation and stranded overhead costs, our business and financial results could be negatively impacted. we may not realize the benefits we expect from our cost reduction and other cash management initiatives. we continuously pursue initiatives to reduce costs, increase effectiveness, and optimize cash flow. we may not realize all or part of the anticipated cost savings or other benefits from such initiatives. other events and circumstances, such as financial or strategic difficulties, delays, or unexpected costs, may also adversely impact our ability to realize all or part of the anticipated cost savings or other benefits, or cause us not to realize such cost savings or other benefits on the expected timetable. if we are unable to realize the anticipated benefits, our ability to fund other initiatives may be adversely affected. finally, the complexity of the implementation will require a substantial amount of management and operational resources. our management team must successfully execute the administrative and operational changes necessary to achieve the anticipated benefits of the initiatives. these and related demands on our resources may divert the organization's attention from other business issues, have adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers, and impact employee morale. any failure to implement these initiatives in accordance with our plans could adversely affect our business and financial results. weak financial performance, downgrades in our credit ratings, or disruptions in the financial markets may adversely affect our ability to access capital in the future. we may need new or additional financing in the future to conduct our operations, expand our business, or refinance existing indebtedness, which would be dependent upon our financial performance. any downgrade in our credit ratings, particularly our short-term rating, would likely impact the amount of commercial paper we could issue and increase our commercial paper borrowing costs. the liquidity of the overall capital markets and the state of the economy, including the food and beverage industry, may make credit and capital markets more difficult for us to access, even though we have an established revolving credit facility. from time to time, we have relied, and also may rely in the future, on access to financial markets as a source of liquidity for working capital requirements, acquisitions, and general corporate purposes. in particular, our access to funds under our revolving credit facility is dependent on the ability of the financial institutions that are parties to that facility to meet their funding commitments. the obligations of the financial institutions under our revolving credit facility are several and not joint and, as a result, a funding default by one or more institutions does not need to be made up by the others. in addition, long-term volatility and disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation of financial institutions, reduced alternatives, or the failure of significant financial institutions could adversely affect our access to the liquidity needed for our businesses in the longer term. such disruptions could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for our business needs can be arranged. disruptions in the capital and credit markets could also result in higher interest rates on publicly issued debt securities and increased costs under credit facilities. continuation of these disruptions would increase our interest expense and capital costs and could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. our substantial debt obligations could restrict our operations and financial condition. additionally, our ability to generate cash to make payments on our indebtedness depends on many factors beyond our control. as of april 30, 2019 , we had approximately $5.9 billion of short-term borrowings and long-term debt, partially as a result of new borrowings this year to finance the ainsworth acquisition. we may also incur additional indebtedness in the future. our debt service obligations will require us to use a portion of our operating cash flow to pay interest and principal on indebtedness rather than for other corporate purposes, including funding future expansion of our business and ongoing capital expenditures, which could impede our growth. our substantial indebtedness could have other adverse consequences, including: making it more difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations; increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic, regulatory, and industry conditions, and placing us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that are less leveraged; limiting our ability to compete and our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; 12 limiting our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, and general corporate or other purposes; and exposing us to greater interest rate risk, including the risk to variable borrowings of a rate increase and the risk to fixed borrowings of a rate decrease. our ability to make payments on our indebtedness will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. our ability to generate cash is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations, and future borrowings may not be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness when scheduled payments are due or to fund other liquidity needs. in these circumstances, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require make-whole payments and compliance with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. our ability to refinance our indebtedness or obtain additional financing would depend on, among other things, our financial condition at the time, restriction in the agreements governing our indebtedness, and the condition of the financial markets and the industry in which we operate. as a result, we may not be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. without this financing, we may have to seek additional equity or debt financing or restructure our debt, which could harm our long-term business prospects. our failure to comply with the terms of any existing or future indebtedness could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of the payment of all of our debt. a material impairment in the carrying value of acquired goodwill or other intangible assets could negatively affect our consolidated operating results and net worth. a significant portion of our assets is goodwill and other intangible assets, the majority of which are not amortized but are reviewed for impairment at least annually on february 1, and more often if indicators of impairment exist. at april 30, 2019 , the carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets totaled $13.0 billion, compared to total assets of $16.7 billion and total shareholders' equity of $8.0 billion . if the carrying value of these assets exceeds the current estimated fair value, the asset would be considered impaired, and this would result in a noncash charge to earnings, which could be material. events and conditions that could result in impairment include a sustained drop in the market price of our common shares, increased competition or loss of market share, obsolescence, product claims that result in a significant loss of sales or profitability over the product life, deterioration in macroeconomic conditions, or declining financial performance in comparison to projected results. as of april 30, 2019, the carrying values of the goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets within the u.s. retail pet foods segment were $2.4 billion and $1.5 billion, respectively. these intangible assets are susceptible to future impairment charges due to narrow differences between fair value and carrying value as a result of recent impairment charges and the acquisition of ainsworth in may 2018. to date, we have recognized $412.6 million of impairment charges related to the goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets acquired as part of the big heart acquisition in 2015, primarily as a result of reductions in our long-term net sales and profitability projections. we do not believe that our pet foods reporting unit or any of the indefinite-lived trademarks within the u.s. retail pet foods segment are more likely than not impaired as of april 30, 2019. however, further changes to the assumptions regarding the future performance of the u.s. retail pet foods segment or its brands, an adverse change to macro-economic conditions, or a change to other assumptions could result in additional impairment losses in the future, which could be significant. as of april 30, 2019, the estimated fair value was substantially in excess of the carrying value for the majority of the remaining reporting units and material indefinite-lived intangible assets, and in all instances, the estimated fair value exceeded the carrying value by greater than 10 percent, with the exception of the natural foods reporting unit, which has no remaining goodwill as a result of the impairment charge recorded during the fourth quarter of 2019. for further information, refer to note 7: goodwill and other intangible assets. changes in tax, environmental, or other regulations and laws, or their application, or failure to comply with existing licensing, trade, and other regulations and laws could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. our operations are subject to various regulations and laws administered by federal, state, and local government agencies in the u.s. as well as to regulations and laws administered by government agencies in canada and other countries in which we have operations and our products are sold. in particular, the manufacturing, marketing, packaging, labeling, distribution, and sale of food products are each subject to governmental regulation that is increasingly extensive, encompassing such matters as ingredients (including whether a product contains genetically modified ingredients), packaging, advertising, relations with distributors and retailers, health, safety, data privacy, and the environment. additionally, we are routinely subject to new or modified tax and securities regulations, other laws and regulations, and accounting and reporting standards. 13 in the u.s., we are required to comply with federal laws, such as the food, drug and cosmetic act, the food safety modernization act, the occupational safety and health act, the clean air act, the clean water act, the resource conservation and recovery act, the tariff act, laws governing equal employment opportunity, and various other federal statutes and regulations. we are also subject to various state and local statutes and regulations. for instance, the california safe drinking water and toxic enforcement act of 1986 (better known as proposition 65 ) requires that a specific warning appear on any product sold in the state of california that contains a substance listed by that state as having been found to cause cancer or birth defects. this law exposes all food and beverage producers to the possibility of having to provide warnings on their products, as well as civil penalties. the detection of even a trace amount of a listed substance can subject an affected product to the requirement of a warning label. products containing listed substances that occur naturally or that are contributed to such products solely by a municipal water supply are generally exempt from the warning requirement. in particular, we are currently a defendant in council for education and research on toxics ( plaintiff or cert ) v. brad barry llc, et al., which alleges that we, in addition to nearly eighty other defendants who manufacture, package, distribute, or sell packaged coffee, failed to warn persons in california that our coffee products expose persons to the chemical acrylamide, which is not added to coffee but is present in all coffee in small amounts (measured in parts per billion) as a byproduct of the coffee bean roasting process, in violation of proposition 65. if we are required to pay significant statutory penalties or to add warning labels to any of our products or place warnings in certain locations where our products are sold as a result of proposition 65, our business and financial results could be adversely impacted, and sales of those products could suffer not only in those locations but elsewhere. we regularly move data across national and state borders to conduct our operations and, consequently, are subject to a variety of laws and regulations in the u.s. and other jurisdictions regarding privacy, data protection, and data security, including those related to the collection, storage, handling, use, disclosure, transfer, and security of personal data. there is significant uncertainty with respect to compliance with such privacy and data protection laws and regulations, because they are continuously evolving and developing and may be interpreted and applied differently from country to country and state to state and may create inconsistent or conflicting requirements. complying with new regulations and laws, or changes to existing regulations and laws, or their application could increase our costs or adversely affect our sales of certain products. in addition, our failure or inability to comply with applicable regulations and laws could subject us to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, recalls or seizures, and potential criminal sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. our operations in certain developing markets expose us to regulatory risks. in many countries outside of the u.s., particularly in those with developing economies, it may be common for others to engage in business practices prohibited by laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act or similar local anti-bribery or anti-corruption laws. these laws generally prohibit companies and their employees, contractors, or agents from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. failure to comply with these laws could subject us to civil and criminal penalties that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. changes in climate or legal, regulatory, or market measures to address climate change may negatively affect our business and operations. there is significant political and scientific concern that emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases may alter the composition of the global atmosphere in ways that are affecting and are expected to continue affecting the global climate. the emission of such greenhouse gases may have an adverse impact on global temperatures, weather patterns, and the frequency and severity of extreme weather and natural disasters. in the event that climate change has a negative effect on agricultural productivity, we may be subject to decreased availability or less favorable pricing for certain commodities that are necessary for our products, such as green coffee, peanuts, animal protein meals, oils and fats, sweeteners, grains, and fruit. we may also be subjected to decreased availability or less favorable pricing for water as a result of such change, which could impact our manufacturing and distribution operations. in addition, natural disasters and extreme weather conditions may disrupt the productivity of our facilities or the operation of our supply chain. increasing concern over climate change also may result in more regulatory requirements to reduce or mitigate the effects of greenhouse gases. in the event that such regulations are enacted and are more rigorous than existing regulations, we may experience significant increases in costs of operation and delivery. in particular, increased regulation of utility providers, fuel emissions, or suppliers could substantially increase our operating, distribution, or supply chain costs. we could also face 14 increased costs related to defending and resolving legal claims and other litigation related to climate change. as a result, climate change could negatively affect our results of operations, cash flows, or financial position. if our information technology systems fail to perform adequately or we are unable to protect such information technology systems against data corruption, cyber-based attacks, or network security breaches, our operations could be disrupted, and we may suffer financial damage or loss because of lost or misappropriated information. we rely on information technology networks and systems, including the internet, to process, transmit, and store electronic information. in particular, we depend on our information technology infrastructure to effectively manage our business data, supply chain, logistics, finance, and other business processes and for digital marketing activities and electronic communications between company personnel and our customers and suppliers. if we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build, sustain, and protect an appropriate technology infrastructure, or we do not effectively implement system upgrades, our business or financial results could be negatively impacted. we are regularly the target of attempted cyber and other security threats. therefore, we continuously monitor and update our information technology networks and infrastructure to prevent, detect, address, and mitigate the risk of unauthorized access, misuse, computer viruses, and other events that could have a security impact. we invest in industry standard security technology to protect our data and business processes against the risk of data security breaches and cyber-based attacks. we believe our security technology tools and processes provide adequate measures of protection against security breaches and in reducing cybersecurity risks. nevertheless, despite continued vigilance in these areas, security breaches or system failures of our infrastructure, whether due to attacks by hackers, employee error, or other causes, can create system disruptions, shutdowns, transaction errors, or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. if we are unable to prevent such breaches or failures, our operations could be disrupted, or we may suffer financial damage or loss because of lost or misappropriated information. in addition, the cost to remediate any damages to our information technology systems suffered as a result of a cyber-based attack could be significant. further, we have outsourced several information technology support services and administrative functions, including benefit plan administration and other functions, to third-party service providers, and may outsource other functions in the future to achieve cost savings and efficiencies. in addition, certain of our processes rely on third-party cloud computing services. if the service providers to which we outsource these functions do not perform effectively, we may not be able to achieve the expected benefits and may have to incur additional costs to correct errors made by such service providers. depending on the function involved, such errors may also lead to business disruption, processing inefficiencies, inaccurate financial reporting, the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach, the loss of sensitive data through security breach, or otherwise. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 32 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. derivative financial instruments and market risk the following discussions about our market risk disclosures involve forward-looking statements. actual results could differ from those projected in the forward-looking statements. we are exposed to market risk related to changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, and commodity prices. interest rate risk: the fair value of our cash and cash equivalents at april 30, 2019 , approximates carrying value. we are exposed to interest rate risk with regard to existing debt consisting of fixed- and variable-rate maturities. our interest rate exposure primarily includes u.s. treasury rates, libor, and commercial paper rates in the u.s. we utilize derivative instruments to manage interest risk associated with anticipated debt transactions, as well as to manage changes in the fair value of our long-term debt. at the inception of an interest rate contract, the instrument is evaluated and documented for qualifying hedge accounting treatment. if the contract is designated as a cash flow hedge, the mark-to-market gains or losses on the contract are deferred and included as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), and reclassified to interest expense in the period during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. if the contract is designated as a fair value hedge, the contract is recognized at fair value on the balance sheet, and changes in the fair value are recognized in interest expense. generally, changes in the fair value of the contract are equal to changes in the fair value of the underlying debt and have no net impact on earnings. we entered into interest rate contracts in november 2018 and june 2018, with notional values of $300.0 and $500.0, respectively, to manage our exposure to interest rate volatility associated with anticipated debt financing in 2020. these interest rate contracts are designated as cash flow hedges, and as a result, unrealized losses of $49.1 were deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) at april 30, 2019. a hypothetical 10 percent decrease in treasury rates at april 30, 2019, would result in a loss of $28.4 on the fair value of these interest rate contracts. in 2018, we terminated a treasury lock concurrent with the pricing of the senior notes due december 15, 2027, which was designated as a cash flow hedge and used to manage our exposure to interest rate volatility. the termination resulted in a gain of $2.7, which was deferred and included as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and is being amortized as a reduction to interest expense over the life of the debt. 32 in 2015, we terminated the interest rate swap on the senior notes due october 15, 2021, which was designated as a fair value hedge and used to hedge against the changes in the fair value of the debt. as a result of the early termination, we received $58.1 in cash, which included $4.6 of accrued and prepaid interest and a $53.5 benefit that is deferred as a component of the carrying value of the long-term debt and is being recognized ratably as a reduction to interest expense over the remaining life of the related debt. at april 30, 2019, the remaining benefit of $20.5 was recorded as an increase in the long-term debt balance. in measuring interest rate risk by the amount of net change in the fair value of our financial liabilities, a hypothetical 100-basis-point decrease in interest rates at april 30, 2019 , would increase the fair value of our long-term debt by $283.9 . foreign currency exchange risk: we have operations outside the u.s. with foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities, primarily denominated in canadian currency. because we have foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities, financial exposure may result, primarily from the timing of transactions and the movement of exchange rates. the foreign currency balance sheet exposures as of april 30, 2019 , are not expected to result in a significant impact on future earnings or cash flows. we utilize foreign currency derivatives to manage the effect of foreign currency exchange fluctuations on future cash payments in canada, primarily related to purchases of certain raw materials and finished goods. the contracts generally have maturities of less than one year. we do not qualify instruments used to manage foreign currency exchange exposures for hedge accounting treatment. therefore, the change in value of these instruments is immediately recognized in cost of products sold. based on our hedged foreign currency positions as of april 30, 2019 , a hypothetical 10 percent change in exchange rates would not materially impact the fair value. revenues from customers outside the u.s., subject to foreign currency exchange, represented 5 percent of net sales during 2019 . thus, certain revenues and expenses have been, and are expected to be, subject to the effect of foreign currency fluctuations, and these fluctuations may have an impact on operating results. commodity price risk: we use certain raw materials and other commodities that are subject to price volatility caused by supply and demand conditions, political and economic variables, weather, investor speculation, and other unpredictable factors. to manage the volatility related to anticipated commodity purchases, we use derivatives with maturities of generally less than one year. we do not qualify commodity derivatives for hedge accounting treatment. as a result, the gains and losses on all commodity derivatives are immediately recognized in cost of products sold. the following sensitivity analysis presents our potential loss of fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10 percent change in market prices related to commodities. year ended april 30, 2019 2018 high $ 51.6 $ 36.0 low 25.3 17.0 average 37.0 26.8 the estimated fair value was determined using quoted market prices and was based on our net derivative position by commodity for the previous four quarters. the calculations are not intended to represent actual losses in fair value that we expect to incur. in practice, as markets move, we actively manage our risk and adjust hedging strategies as appropriate. the commodities hedged have a high inverse correlation to price changes of the derivative instrument; thus, we would expect that any gain or loss in the estimated fair value of these derivatives would generally be offset by an increase or decrease in the estimated fair value of the underlying exposures. 33risk factors 7 risk factors. our business, operations, and financial condition are subject to various risks and uncertainties. the risk factors described below should be carefully considered, together with the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this annual report on form 10-k and our other filings with the sec, in connection with evaluating the company, our business, and the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may affect us. the occurrence of any of these known or unknown risks could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. the outbreak of the novel coronavirus ( covid-19 ) could negatively impact our business and results of operations. the continued spread of covid-19 throughout the united states and the international community has had, and could continue to have, a negative impact on financial markets, economic conditions, and portions of our business and industry. covid-19 could negatively impact our business and results of operations in a number of ways, including, but not limited to, the following: a shutdown or slowdown of one or more of our manufacturing facilities due to illness could significantly disrupt our production capabilities, particularly with respect to our coffee production, substantially all of which takes place in new orleans, louisiana; a slowdown or stoppage in our supply chain could result from government restrictions or labor shortages due to illness or if our suppliers, vendors, distributors, or third-party manufacturers fail to meet their obligations to us or experience disruptions in their ability to do so; a strain on our supply chain could result from increased consumer demand at our retail and e-commerce customers; an increase in commodity and other input costs could result from market volatility, particularly with respect to animal protein meals and fats, the supply chain for which has been significantly disrupted by covid-19; a significant portion of our workforce, including our management team, could become unable to work as a result of illness or government restrictions, or the attention of our management team could be diverted if any key employees become ill from covid-19 and are unable to work; an impairment in the carrying value of goodwill or intangible assets or a change in the useful life of definite-lived intangible assets could occur if there are sustained changes in consumer purchasing behaviors, government restrictions, financial results, or a deterioration of macroeconomic conditions; a decrease in demand for away from home establishments, resulting from government restrictions and social distancing measures, has adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, our away from home operations; an increase in working capital needs could occur, caused by an increase in days sales outstanding or an extension of payment terms by our customers or a reduction of payment terms by our suppliers resulting from increased financial pressures; a change in demand resulting from restrictions on social interactions could affect customers' and consumers' plans to purchase or methods of purchasing our products; a change in demand for or availability of our products could result from retailers, distributors, or carriers modifying their restocking, fulfillment, or shipping practices; a shift in consumer spending as a result of the economic downturn could result in consumers moving to private label or competitive products or our lower-priced products; a change in trade promotions and marketing activities could occur in response to changes in consumer viewing and shopping habits resulting from the cancellation of major events, travel restrictions, and changes in in-store shopping 7 practices; a fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates or interest rates could result from market uncertainties; an increase in the cost or the difficulty to obtain debt or equity financing, or to refinance our debt in the future, could affect our financial condition or our ability to fund operations or future investment opportunities; and an increase in regulatory restrictions or continued market volatility could hinder our ability to implement price increases resulting from commodity or other input cost increases or to execute strategic business activities, including acquisitions and divestitures. we may be unable to grow market share of our products. we operate in the competitive food industry whose growth potential is positively correlated to population growth. our success depends in part on our ability to grow our brands faster than the population in general. we consider our ability to build and sustain the equity of our brands critical to our market share growth. if we do not succeed in these efforts, our market share growth may slow, which could have a material impact on our results of operations. our proprietary brands, packaging designs, and manufacturing methods are essential to the value of our business, and the inability to protect these could harm the value of our brands and adversely affect our sales and profitability. the success of our business depends significantly on our brands, know-how, and other intellectual property. we rely on a combination of trademarks, service marks, trade secrets, patents, copyrights, and similar rights to protect our intellectual property. the success of our growth strategy depends on our continued ability to use our existing trademarks and service marks in order to maintain and increase brand awareness and further develop our brands. if our efforts to protect our intellectual property are not adequate, or if any third party misappropriates or infringes on our intellectual property, the value of our brands may be harmed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. from time to time, we are engaged in litigation to protect our intellectual property, which could result in substantial costs as well as diversion of management attention. in particular, we consider our proprietary coffee roasting methods essential to the consistent flavor and richness of our coffee products and, therefore, essential to our coffee brands. because many of the roasting methods we use are not protected by patents, it may be difficult for us to prevent competitors from copying our roasting methods if such methods become known. we also believe that our packaging innovations, such as our aromaseal canisters, are important to the coffee business' marketing and operational efforts. if our competitors copy our roasting or packaging methods or develop more advanced roasting or packaging methods, the value of our coffee brands may be diminished, and we could lose customers to our competitors. we use a single national broker to represent a portion of our branded products to the retail grocery trade and any failure by the broker to effectively represent us could adversely affect our business. we use a single national broker in the u.s. to represent a portion of our branded products to the retail grocery trade. our business would suffer disruption if this broker were to fail to perform brokerage services or to effectively represent us to the retail grocery trade, which could adversely affect our business. loss or interruption of supply from single-source suppliers of raw materials and finished goods could have a disruptive effect on our business and adversely affect our results of operations. we have elected to source certain raw materials, such as packaging for our folgers coffee products, as well as our jif peanut butter and crisco oil products, and finished goods, such as k-cup pods and our pup-peroni dog snacks, from single sources of supply. while we believe that, except as set forth below, alternative sources of these raw materials and finished goods could be obtained on commercially reasonable terms, loss or an extended interruption in supplies from a single-source supplier would result in additional costs, could have a disruptive short-term effect on our business, and could adversely affect our results of operations. keurig is our single-source supplier for k-cup pods, which are used in its proprietary keurig k-cup brewing system. there are a limited number of manufacturers other than keurig that are making cups that will work in such proprietary brewing system. if keurig is unable to supply k-cup pods to us for any reason, it could be difficult to find an alternative supplier for such goods on commercially reasonable terms, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 8 our results may be adversely impacted as a result of increased cost, limited availability, and/or insufficient quality of raw materials, including commodities and agricultural products. we and our business partners purchase and use large quantities of many different commodities and agricultural products in the manufacturing of our products, including green coffee, peanuts, animal protein meals, oils and fats, sweeteners, grains, and fruit. in addition, we and our business partners utilize significant quantities of plastic, glass, and cardboard to package our products and natural gas and fuel oil to manufacture, package, and distribute our products. the prices of these commodities, agricultural products, and other materials are subject to volatility and can fluctuate due to conditions that are difficult to predict, including global supply and demand, commodity market fluctuations, crop sizes and yield fluctuations, weather, natural disasters, pandemic illness (such as the covid-19 outbreak), foreign currency fluctuations, investor speculation, trade agreements, political unrest, consumer demand, and changes in governmental agricultural programs. in particular, the supply chain for animal protein meals and fats has been significantly disrupted by the covid-19 pandemic, and therefore, the price for these commodities has increased and may continue to increase due to such disruptions. we also compete for certain raw materials, notably corn and soy-based agricultural products, with the biofuels industry, which has resulted in increased prices for these raw materials. additionally, farm acreage currently devoted to other agricultural products we purchase may be utilized for biofuels crops resulting in higher costs for the other agricultural products we utilize. although we use basis, futures, options, and fixed price contracts to manage commodity price volatility in some instances, commodity price increases ultimately result in corresponding increases in our raw material and energy costs. due to the significance of green coffee to our coffee business, combined with our ability to only partially mitigate future price risk through purchasing practices and hedging activities, significant increases or decreases in the cost of green coffee could have an adverse impact on our profitability, as compared to that of our competitors. in addition, if we are not able to purchase sufficient quantities of green coffee due to any of the above factors or to a worldwide or regional shortage, we may not be able to fulfill the demand for our coffee, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our efforts to manage commodity, foreign currency exchange, and other price volatility through derivative instruments could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we use derivative instruments, including commodity futures and options, to reduce the price volatility associated with anticipated commodity purchases. the extent of our derivative position at any given time depends on our assessment of the markets for these commodities. if we fail to take a derivative position and costs subsequently increase, or if we institute a position and costs subsequently decrease, our costs may be greater than anticipated or higher than our competitors' costs and our financial results could be adversely affected. in addition, our liquidity may be adversely impacted by the cash margin requirements of the commodities exchanges or the failure of a counterparty to perform in accordance with a contract. we currently do not qualify any of our commodity or foreign currency exchange derivatives for hedge accounting. we instead mark-to-market our derivatives through the statement of consolidated income, which results in changes in the fair value of all of our derivatives being immediately recognized in consolidated earnings, resulting in potential volatility in both gross profit and net income. these gains and losses are reported in cost of products sold in our statement of consolidated income but are excluded from our segment operating results and non-gaap earnings until the related inventory is sold, at which time the gains and losses are reclassified to segment profit and non-gaap earnings. although this accounting treatment aligns the derivative gains and losses with the underlying exposure being hedged within segment results, it may result in volatility in our consolidated earnings. we may be limited in our ability to pass cost increases on to our customers in the form of price increases or may realize a decrease in sales volume to the extent price increases are implemented. we may not be able to pass some or all of any increases in the price of raw materials, energy, and other input costs to our customers by raising prices. to the extent competitors do not also increase their prices, customers and consumers may choose to purchase competing products or may shift purchases to private label or other lower-priced offerings, which may adversely affect our results of operations. consumers may be less willing or able to pay a price differential for our branded products and may increasingly purchase lower-priced offerings and may forego some purchases altogether, especially during economic downturns. retailers may also increase levels of promotional activity for lower-priced offerings as they seek to maintain sales volumes during times of economic uncertainty. accordingly, sales volumes of our branded products could be reduced or lead to a shift in sales mix 9 toward our lower-margin offerings. as a result, decreased demand for our products may adversely affect our results of operations. certain of our products are produced at single manufacturing sites. we have consolidated our production capacity for certain products into single manufacturing sites, including substantially all of our coffee, milk-bone dog snacks, fruit spreads, toppings, and syrups. we could experience a production disruption at these or any of our manufacturing sites resulting in a reduction or elimination of the availability of some of our products. if we are not able to obtain alternate production capability in a timely manner, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. a significant interruption in the operation of any of our supply chain or distribution capabilities could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our ability and the ability of our third-party suppliers and service providers, distributors, and contract manufacturers to manufacture, distribute, and sell products is critical to our success. a significant interruption in the operation of any of our manufacturing or distribution capabilities, or the manufacturing or distribution capabilities of our suppliers, distributors, or contract manufacturers, or a service failure by a third-party service provider, whether as a result of adverse weather conditions or a natural disaster, work stoppage, terrorism, pandemic illness (such as the covid-19 outbreak), or other causes, could significantly impair our ability to operate our business. in particular, substantially all of our coffee production takes place in new orleans, louisiana, and is subject to risks associated with hurricane and other weather-related events, and some of our production facilities are located in places where tornadoes or wildfires can frequently occur, such as alabama, kansas, and california. in addition, we are actively monitoring covid-19 and its impact on our supply chain and consolidated results of operations, which could be negatively impacted in a number of ways, as previously noted. failure to take adequate steps to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our business could be harmed by strikes or work stoppages. as of april 30, 2020, 24 percent of our full-time employees, located at nine manufacturing locations, are covered by collective bargaining agreements. these contracts vary in term depending on location, with two contracts expiring in 2021, representing 2 percent of our total employees. we cannot assure that we will be able to renew these collective bargaining agreements on the same or more favorable terms as the current agreements, or at all, without production interruptions caused by labor stoppages. if a strike or work stoppage were to occur in connection with negotiations of new collective bargaining agreements or as a result of disputes under collective bargaining agreements with labor unions, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. our ability to competitively serve customers depends on the availability of reliable transportation. increases in logistics and other transportation-related costs could adversely impact our results of operations. logistics and other transportation-related costs have a significant impact on our earnings and results of operations. we use multiple forms of transportation, including ships, trucks, and railcars, to bring our products to market. disruption to the timely supply of these services or increases in the cost of these services for any reason, including availability or cost of fuel, regulations affecting the industry, labor shortages in the transportation industry, service failures by third-party service providers, accidents, natural disasters, or a pandemic illness (such as covid-19), which may impact the transportation infrastructure or demand for transportation services, could have an adverse effect on our ability to serve our customers, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our operations are subject to the general risks of the food industry. the food industry is subject to risks posed by food spoilage and contamination, product tampering, product recall, and consumer product liability claims. our operations could be impacted by both genuine and fictitious claims regarding our products as well as our competitors' products. in the event of product contamination or tampering, we may need to recall some of our products. a widespread product recall could result in significant loss due to the cost of conducting a product recall, including destruction of inventory and the loss of sales resulting from the unavailability of product for a period of time. we could also suffer losses from a significant product liability judgment against us. a significant product recall or a product 10 liability judgment, involving either us or our competitors, could also result in a loss of consumer confidence in our food products or the food category, and an actual or perceived loss of value of our brands, materially impacting consumer demand. changes in our relationships with significant customers, including the loss of our largest customer, could adversely affect our results of operations. sales to walmart inc. and subsidiaries amounted to 32 percent of net sales in 2020. these sales are primarily included in the u.s. retail market segments. trade receivables at april 30, 2020, included amounts due from walmart inc. and subsidiaries of $131.9 million, or 24 percent of the total trade receivables balance. during 2020, our top 10 customers, collectively, accounted for approximately 60 percent of consolidated net sales. we expect that a significant portion of our revenues will continue to be derived from a limited number of customers. our customers are generally not contractually obligated to purchase from us. these customers make purchase decisions based on a combination of price, promotional support, product quality, consumer demand, customer service performance, their desired inventory levels, and other factors. changes in customers' strategies, including a reduction in the number of brands they carry or a shift of shelf space to private label products, may adversely affect sales. customers also may respond to price increases by reducing distribution, resulting in reduced sales of our products. additionally, our customers may face financial or other difficulties that may impact their operations and their purchases from us, which could adversely affect our results of operations. a reduction in sales to one or more major customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we operate in the competitive food industry and continued demand for our products may be affected by our failure to effectively compete or by changes in consumer preferences. we face competition across our product lines from other food companies with the primary methods and factors in competition being product quality, price, packaging, product innovation, nutritional value, convenience, customer service, advertising, and promotion. continued success is dependent on product innovation, the ability to secure and maintain adequate retail shelf space and to compete in new and growing channels, and effective and sufficient trade merchandising, advertising, and marketing programs. in particular, technology-based systems, which give consumers the ability to shop through e-commerce websites and mobile commerce applications, are also significantly altering the retail landscape in many of our markets. we are committed to expanding our presence in e-commerce, transforming our manufacturing, commercial, and corporate operations through digital technologies, and enhancing our data analytics capabilities to develop new commercial insights. however, if we are unable to effectively compete in the expanding e-commerce market, adequately leverage technology to improve operating efficiencies, or develop the data analytics capabilities needed to generate actionable commercial insights, our business performance may be impacted, which may negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. some of our competitors have substantial financial, marketing, and other resources, and competition with them in our various markets, channels, and product lines could cause us to reduce prices, increase marketing or other expenditures, or lose category share. category share and growth could also be adversely impacted if we are not successful in introducing new products. introduction of new products and product extensions requires significant development and marketing investment. if our products fail to meet consumer preferences, or we fail to introduce new and improved products on a timely basis, then the return on that investment will be less than anticipated and our strategy to grow sales and profits through investment in innovation will be less successful. in order to generate future revenues and profits, we must continue to sell products that appeal to our customers and consumers. specifically, there are a number of trends in consumer preferences that may impact us and the food industry as a whole, including convenience, flavor variety, an emphasis on protein and snacking, and the desire for transparent product labeling and simple and natural ingredients. the success of our business depends substantially on consumer perceptions of our brands. we are the branded market leader in several categories both in the u.s. and canada. we believe that maintaining and continually enhancing the value of our brands is critical to the success of our business. brand value is based in large part on consumer perceptions. success in promoting and enhancing brand value depends in large part on our ability to provide high-quality products. brand value could diminish significantly as a result of a number of factors, such as if we fail to preserve the quality of our products, if we are perceived to act in an irresponsible manner, if the company or our brands otherwise receive negative publicity, if our brands fail to deliver a consistently positive consumer experience, or if our products become unavailable to consumers. the growing use of social and digital media by consumers increases the speed and extent that information and opinions can be shared. negative posts or comments about us or our brands or products on social or digital media could damage our brands and reputation. if we are unable to build and sustain brand equity by offering recognizably 11 superior products, we may be unable to maintain premium pricing over private label products. if our brand values are diminished, our revenues and operating results could be materially adversely affected. in addition, anything that harms the dunkin' or rachael ray brands could adversely affect the success of our exclusive licensing agreements with the owners of these brands. we must leverage our brand value to compete against private label products. in nearly all of our product categories, we compete against branded products as well as private label products. our products must provide higher value and/or quality to our consumers than alternatives, particularly during periods of economic uncertainty. consumers may not buy our products if relative differences in value and/or quality between our products and private label products change in favor of competitors' products or if consumers perceive this type of change. if consumers prefer private label products, which are typically sold at lower prices, then we could lose category share or sales volumes or shift our product mix to lower margin offerings, which could have a material effect on our business and consolidated financial position and on the consolidated results of our operations and profitability. we could be subject to adverse publicity or claims from consumers. certain of our products contain ingredients which are the subject of public scrutiny, including the suggestion that consumption may have adverse health effects. although we strive to respond to consumer preferences and social expectations, we may not be successful in these efforts. an unfavorable report on the effects of ingredients present in our products, product recalls, or negative publicity or litigation could influence consumer preferences, significantly reduce the demand for our products, and adversely affect our profitability. we may also be subject to complaints from or litigation by consumers who allege food and beverage-related illness, or other quality, health, or operational concerns. adverse publicity resulting from such allegations could materially adversely affect us, regardless of whether such allegations are true or whether we are ultimately held liable. a lawsuit or claim could result in an adverse decision against us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we may not be able to attract, develop, and retain the highly skilled people we need to support our business. we depend on the skills and continued service of key employees, including our experienced management team. in addition, our ability to achieve our strategic and operating goals depends on our ability to identify, recruit, hire, train, and retain qualified individuals. we compete with other companies both within and outside of our industry for talented people, and we may lose key employees or fail to attract, recruit, train, develop, and retain other talented individuals. any such loss, failure, or negative perception with respect to these individuals may adversely affect our business or financial results. in addition, activities related to identifying, recruiting, hiring, integrating, and training qualified individuals may require significant time and expense. we may not be able to locate suitable replacements for any key employees who leave or to offer employment to potential replacements on reasonable terms, each of which may adversely affect our business and financial results. our operations are subject to the general risks associated with acquisitions and divestitures. specifically, we may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of the ainsworth acquisition or those benefits may take longer to realize than expected. our stated strategic vision is to own and market a portfolio of food and beverage brands that combines number one and leading brands with emerging, on-trend brands to drive balanced, long-term growth, primarily in north america. we have historically made strategic acquisitions of brands and businesses, including ainsworth, and intend to do so in the future in support of this strategy. if we are unable to complete acquisitions or to successfully integrate and develop acquired businesses, including the effective management of integration and related restructuring costs, we could fail to achieve the anticipated synergies and cost savings, or the expected increases in revenues and operating results, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. in addition, we have made strategic divestitures of brands and businesses, including the sale of our u.s. baking business, and we may do so in the future. if we are unable to complete divestitures or to successfully transition divested businesses, including the effective management of the related separation and stranded overhead costs, our business and financial results could be negatively impacted. 12 we may not realize the benefits we expect from our cost reduction and other cash management initiatives. we continuously pursue initiatives to reduce costs, increase effectiveness, and optimize cash flow. we may not realize all or part of the anticipated cost savings or other benefits from such initiatives. other events and circumstances, such as financial or strategic difficulties, delays, or unexpected costs, may also adversely impact our ability to realize all or part of the anticipated cost savings or other benefits, or cause us not to realize such cost savings or other benefits on the expected timetable. if we are unable to realize the anticipated benefits, our ability to fund other initiatives may be adversely affected. finally, the complexity of the implementation will require a substantial amount of management and operational resources. our management team must successfully execute the administrative and operational changes necessary to achieve the anticipated benefits of the initiatives. these and related demands on our resources may divert the organization's attention from other business issues, have adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers, and impact employee morale. any failure to implement these initiatives in accordance with our plans could adversely affect our business and financial results. weak financial performance, downgrades in our credit ratings, or disruptions in the financial markets may adversely affect our ability to access capital in the future. we may need new or additional financing in the future to conduct our operations, expand our business, or refinance existing indebtedness, which would be dependent upon our financial performance. any downgrade in our credit ratings, particularly our short-term rating, would likely impact the amount of commercial paper we could issue and increase our commercial paper borrowing costs. the liquidity of the overall capital markets and the state of the economy, including the food and beverage industry, may make credit and capital markets more difficult for us to access, even though we have an established revolving credit facility. from time to time, we have relied, and also may rely in the future, on access to financial markets as a source of liquidity for working capital requirements, acquisitions, and general corporate purposes. in particular, our access to funds under our revolving credit facility is dependent on the ability of the financial institutions that are parties to that facility to meet their funding commitments. the obligations of the financial institutions under our revolving credit facility are several and not joint and, as a result, a funding default by one or more institutions does not need to be made up by the others. in addition, long-term volatility and disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation of financial institutions, reduced alternatives, or the failure of significant financial institutions could adversely affect our access to the liquidity needed for our businesses in the longer term. such disruptions could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for our business needs can be arranged. disruptions in the capital and credit markets could also result in higher interest rates on publicly issued debt securities and increased costs under credit facilities. continuation of these disruptions would increase our interest expense and capital costs and could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. furthermore, as a result of covid-19, we may experience an increase in the cost of or the difficulty to obtain debt or equity financing, or to refinance our debt in the future, which could also affect our financial condition or our ability to fund operations or future investment opportunities. our fixed- and variable-rate debt use the london interbank offered rate ( libor ) as a benchmark for establishing interest rates, and we enter into interest rate swaps from time to time that contain a variable element based on libor. the financial conduct authority in the united kingdom has stated that it will not require banks to submit libor beyond 2021. once libor ceases to be available, we may need to amend affected agreements, and we cannot predict what alternative index will be negotiated with our counterparties. although we do not anticipate a significant impact to our financial position as a result of this transition given our current mix of fixed- and variable-rate debt, our interest expense could increase, and our available cash flow for general corporate requirements may be adversely affected. our substantial debt obligations could restrict our operations and financial condition. additionally, our ability to generate cash to make payments on our indebtedness depends on many factors beyond our control. as of april 30, 2020, we had approximately $5.6 billion of short-term borrowings and long-term debt, partially as a result of our borrowings in 2019 to finance the ainsworth acquisition. we may also incur additional indebtedness in the future. our debt service obligations will require us to use a portion of our operating cash flow to pay interest and principal on indebtedness rather than for other corporate purposes, including funding future expansion of our business and ongoing capital expenditures, which could impede our growth. our substantial indebtedness could have other adverse consequences, including: making it more difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations; 13 increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic, regulatory, and industry conditions, and placing us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that are less leveraged; limiting our ability to compete and our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; limiting our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, and general corporate or other purposes; and exposing us to greater interest rate risk, including the risk to variable borrowings of a rate increase and the risk to fixed borrowings of a rate decrease. our ability to make payments on our indebtedness will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. our ability to generate cash is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations, and future borrowings may not be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness when scheduled payments are due or to fund other liquidity needs. in these circumstances, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require make-whole payments and compliance with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. our ability to refinance our indebtedness or obtain additional financing would depend on, among other things, our financial condition at the time, restriction in the agreements governing our indebtedness, and the condition of the financial markets and the industry in which we operate. as a result, we may not be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. without this financing, we may have to seek additional equity or debt financing or restructure our debt, which could harm our long-term business prospects. our failure to comply with the terms of any existing or future indebtedness could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of the payment of all of our debt. a material impairment in the carrying value of acquired goodwill or other intangible assets could negatively affect our consolidated operating results and net worth. a significant portion of our assets is goodwill and other intangible assets, the majority of which are not amortized but are reviewed for impairment at least annually on february 1, and more often if indicators of impairment exist. at april 30, 2020, the carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets totaled $12.7 billion, compared to total assets of $17.0 billion and total shareholders' equity of $8.2 billion. if the carrying value of these assets exceeds the current estimated fair value, the asset would be considered impaired, and this would result in a noncash charge to earnings, which could be material. events and conditions that could result in impairment include a sustained drop in the market price of our common shares, increased competition or loss of market share, obsolescence, product claims that result in a significant loss of sales or profitability over the product life, deterioration in macroeconomic conditions, or declining financial performance in comparison to projected results. as of april 30, 2020, goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets totaled $6.3 billion and 2.9 billion, respectively. the carrying values of the goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets were $2.4 billion and $1.4 billion, respectively, within the u.s. retail pet foods segment, and $2.1 billion and $1.2 billion, respectively, within the u.s. retail coffee segment, which represent approximately 75 percent of the total goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets as of april 30, 2020. furthermore, the carrying values of the goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets within the u.s. retail pet foods segment are susceptible to future impairment charges due to narrow differences between fair value and carrying value as a result of recent impairment charges and the acquisition of ainsworth in may 2018. to date, we have recognized $465.0 million of impairment charges related to the goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets acquired as part of the big heart pet brands ( big heart ) acquisition in 2015, primarily as a result of reductions in our long-term net sales and profitability projections. we do not believe that our pet foods reporting unit or any of the indefinite-lived assets within the u.s. retail pet foods segment are more likely than not impaired as of april 30, 2020. however, further changes to the assumptions regarding the future performance of the u.s. retail pet foods segment or its brands, an adverse change to macroeconomic conditions, or a change to other assumptions could result in additional impairment losses in the future, which could be significant. as of april 30, 2020, the estimated fair value was substantially in excess of the carrying value for the majority of the remaining reporting units and material indefinite-lived intangible assets, and in all such instances, the estimated fair value exceeded the carrying value by greater than 10 percent. furthermore, we continue to evaluate the potential impact of covid-19 on the fair value of our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets. while we concluded there were no indicators of impairment as of april 30, 2020, any significant sustained 14 adverse change in consumer purchasing behaviors, government restrictions, financial results, or macroeconomic conditions could result in future impairment, specifically as it relates to the away from home reporting unit, which has experienced a significant decline in demand as a result of covid-19. for additional information, refer to note 7: goodwill and other intangible assets. changes in tax, environmental, or other regulations and laws, or their application, or failure to comply with existing licensing, trade, and other regulations and laws could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. our operations are subject to various regulations and laws administered by federal, state, and local government agencies in the u.s. as well as to regulations and laws administered by government agencies in canada and other countries in which we have operations and our products are sold. in particular, the manufacturing, marketing, packaging, labeling, distribution, and sale of food products are each subject to governmental regulation that is increasingly extensive, encompassing such matters as ingredients (including whether a product contains genetically modified ingredients), packaging, pricing, advertising, relations with distributors and retailers, health, safety, data privacy, and the environment. additionally, we are routinely subject to new or modified tax and securities regulations, other laws and regulations, and accounting and reporting standards. in the u.s., we are required to comply with federal laws, such as the food, drug and cosmetic act, the food safety modernization act, the occupational safety and health act, the clean air act, the clean water act, the resource conservation and recovery act, the tariff act, laws governing equal employment opportunity, and various other federal statutes and regulations. we are also subject to various state and local statutes and regulations. for instance, the california safe drinking water and toxic enforcement act of 1986 (better known as proposition 65 ) requires that a specific warning appear on any product sold in the state of california that contains a substance listed by that state as having been found to cause cancer or birth defects. this law exposes all food and beverage producers to the possibility of having to provide warnings on their products, as well as civil penalties. the detection of even a trace amount of a listed substance can subject an affected product to the requirement of a warning label. products containing listed substances that occur naturally or that are contributed to such products solely by a municipal water supply are generally exempt from the warning requirement. in particular, we are currently a defendant in council for education and research on toxics ( plaintiff or cert ) v. brad barry llc, et al., which alleges that we, in addition to nearly eighty other defendants who manufacture, package, distribute, or sell packaged coffee, failed to warn persons in california that our coffee products expose persons to the chemical acrylamide, which is not added to coffee but is present in all coffee in small amounts (measured in parts per billion) as a byproduct of the coffee bean roasting process, in violation of proposition 65. if we are required to pay significant statutory penalties or to add warning labels to any of our products or place warnings in certain locations where our products are sold as a result of proposition 65, our business and financial results could be adversely impacted, and sales of those products could suffer not only in those locations but elsewhere. we regularly move data across national and state borders to conduct our operations and, consequently, are subject to a variety of laws and regulations in the u.s. and other jurisdictions regarding privacy, data protection, and data security, including those related to the collection, storage, handling, use, disclosure, transfer, and security of personal data. there is significant uncertainty with respect to compliance with such privacy and data protection laws and regulations, because they are continuously evolving and developing and may be interpreted and applied differently from country to country and state to state and may create inconsistent or conflicting requirements. complying with new regulations and laws, or changes to existing regulations and laws, or their application could increase our costs or adversely affect our sales of certain products. in addition, our failure or inability to comply with applicable regulations and laws could subject us to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, recalls or seizures, and potential criminal sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. our operations in certain developing markets expose us to regulatory risks. in many countries outside of the u.s., particularly in those with developing economies, it may be common for others to engage in business practices prohibited by laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act or similar local anti-bribery or anti-corruption laws. these laws generally prohibit companies and their employees, contractors, or agents from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. failure to comply with these laws could subject us to civil and criminal penalties that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 15 changes in climate or legal, regulatory, or market measures to address climate change may negatively affect our business and operations. there is significant political and scientific concern that emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases may alter the composition of the global atmosphere in ways that are affecting and are expected to continue affecting the global climate. the emission of such greenhouse gases may have an adverse impact on global temperatures, weather patterns, and the frequency and severity of extreme weather and natural disasters. in the event that climate change has a negative effect on agricultural productivity, we may be subject to decreased availability or less favorable pricing for certain commodities that are necessary for our products, such as green coffee, peanuts, animal protein meals, oils and fats, sweeteners, grains, and fruit. we may also be subjected to decreased availability or less favorable pricing for water as a result of such change, which could impact our manufacturing and distribution operations. in addition, natural disasters and extreme weather conditions may disrupt the productivity of our facilities or the operation of our supply chain. increasing concern over climate change also may result in more regulatory requirements to reduce or mitigate the effects of greenhouse gases. in the event that such regulations are enacted and are more rigorous than existing regulations, we may experience significant increases in costs of operation and delivery. in particular, increased regulation of utility providers, fuel emissions, or suppliers could substantially increase our operating, distribution, or supply chain costs. we could also face increased costs related to defending and resolving legal claims and other litigation related to climate change. as a result, climate change could negatively affect our results of operations, cash flows, or financial position. if our information technology systems fail to perform adequately or we are unable to protect such information technology systems against data corruption, cyber-based attacks, or network security breaches, our operations could be disrupted, and we may suffer financial damage or loss because of lost or misappropriated information. we rely on information technology networks and systems, including the internet, to process, transmit, and store electronic information, and the importance of such networks and systems has increased due to many of our employees working remotely as a result of the covid-19 pandemic. in particular, we depend on our information technology infrastructure to effectively manage our business data, supply chain, logistics, finance, and other business processes and for digital marketing activities and electronic communications between company personnel and our customers and suppliers. if we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build, sustain, and protect an appropriate technology infrastructure, or we do not effectively implement system upgrades, our business or financial results could be negatively impacted. we are regularly the target of attempted cyber and other security threats. therefore, we continuously monitor and update our information technology networks and infrastructure to prevent, detect, address, and mitigate the risk of unauthorized access, misuse, computer viruses, and other events that could have a security impact. we invest in industry standard security technology to protect our data and business processes against the risk of data security breaches and cyber-based attacks. we believe our security technology tools and processes provide adequate measures of protection against security breaches and in reducing cybersecurity risks. nevertheless, despite continued vigilance in these areas, security breaches or system failures of our infrastructure, whether due to attacks by hackers, employee error, or other causes, can create system disruptions, shutdowns, transaction errors, or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. if we are unable to prevent such breaches or failures, our operations could be disrupted, or we may suffer financial damage or loss because of lost or misappropriated information. in addition, the cost to remediate any damages to our information technology systems suffered as a result of a cyber-based attack could be significant. further, we have outsourced several information technology support services and administrative functions, including benefit plan administration and other functions, to third-party service providers, and may outsource other functions in the future to achieve cost savings and efficiencies. in addition, certain of our processes rely on third-party cloud computing services. if the service providers to which we outsource these functions do not perform effectively, we may not be able to achieve the expected benefits and may have to incur additional costs to correct errors made by such service providers. depending on the function involved, such errors may also lead to business disruption, processing inefficiencies, inaccurate financial reporting, the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach, the loss of sensitive data through security breach, or otherwise. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 34 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. derivative financial instruments and market risk the following discussions about our market risk disclosures involve forward-looking statements. actual results could differ from those projected in the forward-looking statements. we are exposed to market risk related to changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, and commodity prices. interest rate risk: the fair value of our cash and cash equivalents at april 30, 2020, approximates carrying value. we are exposed to interest rate risk with regard to existing debt consisting of fixed- and variable-rate maturities. our interest rate exposure primarily includes u.s. treasury rates, libor, and commercial paper rates in the u.s. the financial conduct authority in the united kingdom has stated that it will not require banks to submit libor beyond 2021. we do not anticipate a significant impact to our financial position as a result of this action given our current mix of variable- and fixed-rate debt. we utilize derivative instruments to manage interest risk associated with anticipated debt transactions, as well as to manage changes in the fair value of our long-term debt. at the inception of an interest rate contract, the instrument is evaluated and documented for qualifying hedge accounting treatment. if the contract is designated as a cash flow hedge, the mark-to-market gains or losses on the contract are deferred and included as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), and reclassified to interest expense in the period during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. if the contract is designated as a fair value hedge, the contract is recognized at fair value on the balance sheet, and changes in the fair value are recognized in interest expense. generally, changes in the fair value of the contract are equal to changes in the fair value of the underlying debt and have no net impact on earnings. 34 we entered into interest rate contracts in november 2018 and june 2018, with notional values of $300.0 and $500.0, respectively, to manage our exposure to interest rate volatility associated with anticipated debt financing in 2020. these interest rate contracts were designated as cash flow hedges. in march 2020, we terminated the interest rate contracts concurrent with the pricing of the senior notes due march 15, 2030, and march 15, 2050, which resulted in a pre-tax loss of $ 239.8 . the loss was deferred and included as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and is being amortized as interest expense over the life of the debt. in 2015, we terminated the interest rate swap on the senior notes due october 15, 2021, which was designated as a fair value hedge and used to hedge against the changes in the fair value of the debt. as a result of the early termination, we received $ 58.1 in cash, which included $ 4.6 of accrued and prepaid interest and a $53.5 benefit that is deferred as a component of the carrying value of the long-term debt and is being recognized ratably as a reduction to interest expense over the remaining life of the related debt. at april 30, 2020, the remaining benefit of $12.4 was recorded as an increase in the long-term debt balance. in measuring interest rate risk by the amount of net change in the fair value of our financial liabilities, a hypothetical 100-basis-point decrease in interest rates at april 30, 2020, would increase the fair value of our long-term debt by $416.6. foreign currency exchange risk: we have operations outside the u.s. with foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities, primarily denominated in canadian currency. because we have foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities, financial exposure may result, primarily from the timing of transactions and the movement of exchange rates. the foreign currency balance sheet exposures as of april 30, 2020, are not expected to result in a significant impact on future earnings or cash flows. we utilize foreign currency derivatives to manage the effect of foreign currency exchange fluctuations on future cash payments primarily related to purchases of certain raw materials and finished goods. the contracts generally have maturities of less than one year. we do not qualify instruments used to manage foreign currency exchange exposures for hedge accounting treatment. therefore, the change in value of these instruments is immediately recognized in cost of products sold. based on our hedged foreign currency positions as of april 30, 2020, a hypothetical 10 percent change in exchange rates would not materially impact the fair value. revenues from customers outside the u.s., subject to foreign currency exchange, represented 6 percent of net sales during 2020. thus, certain revenues and expenses have been, and are expected to be, subject to the effect of foreign currency fluctuations, and these fluctuations may have an impact on operating results. commodity price risk: we use certain raw materials and other commodities that are subject to price volatility caused by supply and demand conditions, political and economic variables, weather, investor speculation, and other unpredictable factors. to manage the volatility related to anticipated commodity purchases, we use derivatives with maturities of generally less than one year. we do not qualify commodity derivatives for hedge accounting treatment. as a result, the gains and losses on all commodity derivatives are immediately recognized in cost of products sold. the following sensitivity analysis presents our potential loss of fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10 percent change in market prices related to commodities. year ended april 30, 2020 2019 high $ 37.8 $ 51.6 low 14.5 25.3 average 26.9 37.0 the estimated fair value was determined using quoted market prices and was based on our net derivative position by commodity for the previous four quarters. the calculations are not intended to represent actual losses in fair value that we expect to incur. in practice, as markets move, we actively manage our risk and adjust hedging strategies as appropriate. the commodities hedged have a high inverse correlation to price changes of the derivative instrument; thus, we would expect that any gain or loss in the estimated fair value of these derivatives would generally be offset by an increase or decrease in the estimated fair value of the underlying exposures. 35risk factors. item 2. properties. item 3. legal proceedings. item 4. submissions of matters to a vote of security holders. part ii item 5. market for registrant common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities. item 6. selected financial data. item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. item 8. financial statements and supplementary data. item 9. changes in and disagreements with accountants on accounting and financial disclosure. item 9a. controls and procedures. item 9b. other information. part iii item 10. directors and executive officers and corporate governance. item 11. executive compensation. item 12. security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and related stockholder matters. item 13. certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence. item 14. principal accountant fees and services. part iv item 15. exhibits and financial statement schedules. signatures index of exhibits ex-10.16 ex-10.17 ex-10.45 ex-13 ex-18 ex-21 ex-23 ex-24 ex-31.1 ex-31.2 ex-31.3 ex-32 table of contents part i item 1. business. the company . the j. m. smucker company (the company ) was established in 1897 and was incorporated in ohio in 1921. the company, often referred to as smucker (a registered trademark), operates principally in one industry, the manufacturing and marketing of branded food products on a worldwide basis, although the majority of the company sales are in the u.s. the company operations outside the u.s. are principally in canada although products are exported to other countries as well. sales outside the u.s. represented approximately 11 percent of total consolidated company sales for fiscal 2009. the company branded food products include a strong portfolio of trusted, iconic, market-leading brands that are sold to consumers through retail outlets in north america. on november 6, 2008, the company completed a merger transaction with the folgers coffee company ( folgers ), a subsidiary of the procter gamble company ( p g ). the value of the transaction was approximately $3.7 billion, including the issuance of smucker common shares in connection with the merger and $350 million of folgers debt. under the terms of the transaction agreements, p g distributed common shares of folgers to participating p g shareholders which were then automatically converted into the right to receive smucker common shares in the merger. immediately following the merger, p g shareholders and pre-merger company shareholders owned approximately 53.5 percent and 46.5 percent, respectively, of the company approximately 118 million common shares outstanding. the merger was accounted for as a purchase business combination, with the company treated as the acquiring entity. the company has four reportable segments: u.s. retail consumer market, u.s. retail oils and baking market, u.s. retail coffee market, and special markets. the company three u.s. retail market segments in total comprised nearly 80 percent of the company net sales in fiscal 2009 and represent a major portion of the strategic focus area for the company the sale of branded food products with leadership positions to consumers through retail outlets in north america. the special markets segment represents sales outside of the u.s. retail markets and includes the company canada, foodservice, natural foods (formerly beverage), and international businesses. principal products . the principal products of the company, which are sold across the company u.s. retail market segments and special markets segment, are coffee, peanut butter, shortening and oils, fruit spreads, canned milk, baking mixes and ready-to-spread frostings, flour and baking ingredients, juices and beverages, frozen sandwiches, dessert toppings, syrups, pickles and condiments, and potato side dishes. product sales information for the years 2009, 2008, and 2007 is incorporated herein by reference to information set forth in the company 2009 annual report to shareholders, on pages 42 through 44 under note d: reportable segments. in each of the u.s. retail market segments, the company products are primarily sold through a combination of direct sales and through brokers to food retailers, food wholesalers, drug stores, club stores, mass merchandisers, discount and dollar stores, and military commissaries. in the special markets segment, the company products are distributed domestically and in foreign countries through retail channels, foodservice distributors and operators (i.e., restaurants, schools and universities, healthcare operators), health and natural foods stores and distributors. sources and availability of raw materials . the raw materials used by the company in each of its segments are primarily commodities and agricultural-based products. glass, plastic, steel cans, caps, carton board, and corrugate are the principal packaging materials used by the company. the fruit and vegetable raw materials used by the company in the production of its food products are purchased from independent growers and suppliers. green coffee, peanuts, oils, sweeteners, milk, wheat and flour, corn, and other ingredients are obtained from various suppliers. the cost and availability of many of these 2 table of contents commodities have fluctuated, and may continue to fluctuate, over time. the company uses commodity futures and options to manage a significant portion of its commodity costs. green coffee is the world second largest traded commodity and is sourced solely from foreign countries. green coffee supply and price are subject to high volatility due to factors such as weather, pest damage, and political and economic conditions in the source countries. raw materials are generally available from numerous sources, and the company believes that it will continue to be able to obtain adequate supplies. the company has not historically encountered significant shortages of key raw materials. the company considers its relationship with key raw material suppliers to be good. trademarks and patents . the company products are produced under certain patents and marketed under numerous trademarks owned or licensed by the company or one of its subsidiaries. major trademarks, utilized primarily in the u.s. retail market segments, include: smucker , jif , hungry jack , mary ellen , dutch girl , uncrustables , snack n waffles, simply jif , dickinson , crosse blackwell , adams , laura scudder , goober , golden temple and magic shell , in the consumer segment; crisco , pillsbury , eagle brand , borden and elsie design , martha white , lapina , white lily , softasilk , funfetti , pet , and simple measures in the oils and baking segment; and folgers , dunkin donuts , and millstone in the coffee segment. major trademarks utilized in the special markets segment include: folgers , smucker , jif , crisco , plate scapers , bick , five roses , robin hood , carnation , europe best , r. w. knudsen family , santa cruz organic , double fruit , simply nutritious , recharge , and red river . pillsbury , the barrelhead logo, and doughboy character are trademarks of the pillsbury company llc and are used by the company under a 20-year, perpetually renewable, royalty-free license. borden and the elsie design are trademarks used by the company on certain products under a perpetual, exclusive, and royalty-free license. carnation is a trademark of soci t des produits nestl s.a., used by the company canadian subsidiary for certain canned milk products in certain territories under an exclusive and royalty-free license with an initial term of 10 years, renewable by the company for two successive five-year terms and which becomes perpetual at the end of the renewal terms under certain circumstances. dunkin donuts is a registered trademark of dd ip holder llc used by the company under license (the dunkin license ). the terms of the dunkin license include the payment of royalties to dd ip holder llc and other financial commitments by the company. the dunkin license is in effect until january 1, 2034. in addition, the company or one of its subsidiaries licenses the use of several other trademarks, none of which individually is material to the company business. slogans or designs considered to be important trademarks include, without limitation, the slogan, with a name like smucker s, it has to be good, the best part of wakin up is folgers in your cup, wake up special every day, mountain grown, choosy moms choose jif, purely the finest, crisco is cooking, everybody happy when it hungry jack, goodness gracious, it good, the smucker banner, the crock jar shape, the gingham design, and the strawberry logo. the company owns several hundred patents worldwide in addition to proprietary trade secrets, technology, know-how processes and other intellectual property rights that are not registered. the company considers all of its intellectual property and the pillsbury , dunkin donuts , borden , elsie design, and carnation licenses, taken as a whole, to be essential to its business. seasonality . the company u.s. retail oils and baking market and u.s. retail coffee market businesses are particularly seasonal around the fall bake and holiday period, which generally results in higher sales and profits in the company second and third quarters. the company success in promoting and merchandising its baking and coffee brands during the fall bake and holiday period has a significant impact on its results for a fiscal year. the back-to-school period and the spring holiday season are two other important promotional periods for the company, although their impact to the company is not as significant as the fall bake and holiday period. 3 table of contents working capital . working capital requirements are greatest during the first half of the company fiscal year mainly due to the timing of fruit and vegetable procurement, the buildup of oil, baking, and coffee inventories necessary to support the fall bake and holiday period, and the additional buildup of coffee inventory in advance of the atlantic hurricane season. customers . sales to wal-mart stores, inc., and its subsidiaries amounted to approximately 24 percent, 20 percent, and 20 percent of net sales in 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. these sales are primarily included in the u.s. retail market segments. no other customer exceeded 10 percent of net sales during 2009, 2008, and 2007. during 2009, the company top 10 customers, collectively, accounted for approximately 61 percent of consolidated net sales reflecting consolidation in the grocery industry in recent years. the company expects industry consolidation to continue. although the loss of any large customer for an extended length of time could negatively impact the company sales and profits, the company does not anticipate that this will occur to a significant extent due to strong consumer demand for the company products. orders . generally, orders are filled within a few days of receipt, and the backlog of unfilled orders at any particular time has not been material on a historical basis. government business . no material portion of the company business is subject to negotiation of profits or termination of contracts at the election of the government. competition . the company is the branded market leader in the coffee, peanut butter, shortening and oils, sweetened condensed milk, fruit spreads, dessert toppings, and health and natural foods beverages categories. the company business is highly competitive as all of its u.s. retail market segments brands compete for retail shelf space with other advertised and branded products as well as unadvertised and private label products. the continued growth of alternative store formats, product and packaging innovations, technological advances, and new industry techniques are all issues for companies in the food industry to consider in order to remain competitive. the primary ways in which products are distinguished are product quality, price, packaging, new product introductions, nutritional value, convenience, customer service, advertising, and promotion. positive factors pertaining to the company competitive position include well-recognized brands, superior product quality, experienced brand management, a single national grocery broker in the united states, varied product offerings, product innovation, and a strong distribution network. the company historically has seen accelerated private label growth during challenging economic times. during 2009, private label gained share of market in most categories within the grocery store in which the company competes. the company estimates that during the current economic recession, private label has grown more than during past recessions partly due to the unprecedented run up in commodity costs combined with improvements in private label quality. the company believes that both private label and leading brands play an important role in all of the food categories in which it competes, appealing to different consumer segments. the company closely monitors the price gap or price premium between its brands and private label, with the view that value is about more than price and the expectation that number one brands will continue to be an integral part of consumers shopping baskets. in the consumer segment, the jif brand has been a leader in the peanut butter category for over 20 years, while the company natural peanut butter business, sold under the smucker , adam , and laura scudder brands, maintains a strong leadership position in the natural peanut butter category. the company fruit spread brands, including smucker , dickinson , and knott berry farm hold the leading position in the fruit spreads category and compete with welch branded line of fruit spreads and many private label brands. the competing brands exist on both a national and a regional level. the company hungry jack brand competes in three primary market categories: pancake mix, potato side 4 table of contents dishes, and table syrup. the company competes with several major national as well as private label brands in these categories. in the oils and baking segment, crisco has been a leader in the shortening and cooking oils categories for over 50 years. crisco holds a leading position among branded competitors in both the oils and shortening categories. the oils category in which crisco competes is a more competitive category due to a significant private label presence and volatile commodity pricing. the company pillsbury brand competes in the dessert and baking mixes ( dbm ) market that includes mixes for cakes, cookies, brownies, muffins, and quick breads, as well as ready-to-spread frostings and ingredients used in scratch baking such as flour. within the dbm category, the company competes primarily with the betty crocker and duncan hines brands and many private label brands. the company competes in the canned milk category with both branded and nonbranded products. the company is the branded market leader in the sweetened condensed category with over 50 percent market share with its eagle brand and magnolia brands; and, has significant sales with production of private label brands. in the evaporated milk category, the company has a significant presence with its production of private label brands and the pet brand where it competes primarily with one major national brand. in the coffee segment, the folgers brand competes in the highly competitive u.s. packaged roast and ground coffee market with other retail coffee roasters such as maxwell house, yuban, general foods international coffee, starbucks and seattle best, and others. the company also competes in the premium gourmet coffee market through its millstone , folgers gourmet selections brands, as well as through sales of dunkin donuts licensed retail packaged coffee products. the company coffee business also faces competition from the specialty or gourmet away-from-home coffee market, a significant market in the coffee industry and a market in which the company does not compete. research and development . the company predominantly utilizes in-house resources to both develop new products and improve existing products in each of its business areas. amounts expensed for product development were $14,498,000, $9,547,000, and $9,680,000 in 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. environmental matters . compliance with the provisions of federal, state, and local environmental regulations regarding either the discharge of materials into the environment or the protection of the environment is not expected to have a material effect upon the company capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position. employees . at april 30, 2009, the company had approximately 4,700 full-time employees, worldwide. approximately 34 percent of these employees, located at 11 facilities, are covered by union contracts. these contracts vary in term depending on the location. the company believes its relations with its current employees are good. financial information about industry segments and geographical areas . the financial information required to be included in this item concerning reportable industry segments and international operations for the years 2009, 2008, and 2007 is incorporated herein by reference to information set forth in the company 2009 annual report to shareholders, on pages 42 through 44, under note d: reportable segments. the company international operations are primarily in canada with risks similar to those associated with the u.s. retail markets. the company canada sales primarily represent the sale of canadian produced products to canadian customers. forward-looking statements . this report includes forward-looking statements that are based on current expectations and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from expected or projected results. the descriptions of risks and uncertainties relating to forward-looking statements is incorporated herein by reference to information set forth in the company 2009 annual report to shareholders under the caption forward-looking statements on page 27. 5 table of contents available information . access to all securities and exchange commission ( sec ) filings made by the company, including its annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act, is provided, free of charge, on the company web site (www.smuckers.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the sec. item 1a. risk factors. the company business, operations, and financial condition are subject to various risks and uncertainties. the risk factors described below should be carefully considered, together with the other information contained or incorporated by reference in the annual report on form 10-k and in the company other filings with the sec, in connection with evaluating the company, its business and the forward-looking statements contained in this report. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the company or that the company currently deems immaterial also may affect the company. the occurrence of any of these known or unknown risks could have a material adverse impact on the company business, financial condition, and results of operations. the company operates in the competitive food industry and relies on continued demand for the company products. the company faces competition across its product lines from other food companies with the primary methods and factors in competition being product quality, price, packaging, new product introductions, nutritional value, convenience, customer service, advertising, and promotion. in order to generate future revenues and profits, the company must continue to sell products that appeal to the company customers and consumers. specifically, there are a number of trends in consumer preferences that may impact the company and the food industry as a whole including convenience, consumer dietary trends, and obesity, health and nutritional concerns. continued success is dependent on product innovation, the ability to secure and maintain adequate retail shelf space, and effective trade merchandising, advertising, and marketing programs. some of the company competitors have substantial financial, marketing, and other resources, and competition with them in the company various markets and product lines could cause the company to reduce prices, increase marketing or other expenditures, or lose category share. category share and growth could be adversely impacted if the company is not successful in introducing new products. consumers may shift purchases to lower-priced private label or other value offerings during economic downturns, which may adversely affect the company results of operations. during economic downturns, consumers may be less willing or able to pay a price differential for the company branded products, and may increasingly purchase more lower-priced offerings and may forego some purchases altogether. the company has experienced increased competitive pressure from private label products during recent periods. retailers may also increase levels of promotional activity for lower-priced or value offerings as they seek to maintain sales volumes during times of economic uncertainty. accordingly, economic downturns could reduce sales volumes of the company branded products or lead to a shift in sales mix toward its lower margin offerings, which could have an adverse effect on its results of operations. the success of the company business depends substantially on consumer perceptions of its brands. the company believes that maintaining and continually enhancing the value of its brands is critical to the success of its business. brand value is based in large part on consumer perceptions. success in promoting and enhancing brand value depends in large part on the company ability to provide high quality products. brand value could diminish significantly as a result of a number of factors, such as if the company fails to preserve the quality of its products, if the company is perceived to act in an irresponsible manner, if the company or its brands 6 table of contents otherwise receive negative publicity, if the brands fail to deliver a consistently positive consumer experience or if the products become unavailable to consumers. if the company brand values are diminished, the company revenues and operating results could be materially adversely affected. in addition, anything that adversely affects the pillsbury , carnation , borden , or dunkin donuts brand could adversely affect the success of the company exclusive licensing agreements with the owners of these brands. the company proprietary coffee brands, packaging designs, and roasting methods are essential to the value of the coffee business and the inability to protect these could harm the value of its brands and adversely affect its sales and profitability. the success of the coffee business depends significantly on its brands, know-how, and other intellectual property. the company relies on a combination of trademarks, service marks, trade secrets, patents, copyrights, and similar rights to protect its intellectual property. the success of the company growth strategy depends on its continued ability to use its existing trademarks and service marks in order to maintain and increase brand awareness and further develop its brand. if the company efforts to protect its intellectual property are not adequate, or if any third party misappropriates or infringes on its intellectual property, the value of the company brand may be harmed, which could have a material adverse effect on its business. from time to time, the company is engaged in litigation to protect its intellectual property, which could result in substantial costs to the company as well as diversion of management attention. additionally, the company considers its proprietary roasting methods essential to the consistent flavor and richness of its coffee products and, therefore, essential to its brands. because many of the roasting methods used by the company are not protected by patents, it may be difficult for the company to prevent competitors from copying its roasting methods if such methods become known. the company also believes that its packaging innovations, such as brick packaging technology and its aromaseal tm canisters, are important to the coffee business marketing and operational efforts. if the company competitors copy its roasting or packaging methods or develop more advanced roasting or packaging methods, the value of the folgers coffee brand may be diminished, and the company could lose customers to its competitors. the company operations are subject to the general risks of the food industry. the food industry is subject to risks posed by food spoilage and contamination, product tampering, product recall, and consumer product liability claims. the company operations could be impacted by both genuine and fictitious claims regarding the company and competitors products. in the event of product contamination or tampering, the company may need to recall some of its products. a widespread product recall could result in significant loss due to the cost of conducting a product recall, including destruction of inventory and the loss of sales resulting from the unavailability of product for a period of time. the company could also suffer losses from a significant product liability judgment against it. either a significant product recall or a product liability judgment, involving either the company or its competitors, could also result in a loss of consumer confidence in the company food products or the food category, and an actual or perceived loss of value of the company brands, materially impacting consumer demand. since january 2009, peanut butter and other peanut products manufactured with peanuts sourced from an unrelated third-party manufacturer, peanut corporation of america ( pca ), facilities in georgia and texas have been the subject of product recalls. while the company jif , smucker , adams , laura scudder and smucker uncrustables products are not involved in the pca recalls, sales of the company peanut butter products have been adversely affected by the recall during the fourth quarter of 2009. the company does not expect this recall to have a long-term impact on the peanut butter business. 7 table of contents the company could be subject to adverse publicity or claims from consumers. certain of the company products contain caffeine and other active compounds, the health effects of which are the subject of increasing public scrutiny, including the suggestion that consumption of coffee, caffeine and other active compounds may have adverse health effects. an unfavorable report on the health effects of caffeine or other compounds present in the company products, product recalls or negative publicity or litigation arising from other health risks could significantly reduce the demand for the company products. the company may also be subject to complaints from or litigation by consumers who allege food and beverage-related illness, or other quality, health or operational concerns. adverse publicity resulting from such allegations could materially adversely affect the company, regardless of whether such allegations are true or whether the company is ultimately held liable. a lawsuit or claim could result in an adverse decision against the company, which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. certain of the company products are sourced from single manufacturing sites. the company has consolidated its production capacity for certain products into single manufacturing sites. it is possible the company could experience a production disruption at these or any of its manufacturing sites resulting in a reduction or elimination of the availability of some of the company products. should the company not be able to obtain alternate production capability in a timely manner, a negative impact on the company operations could result. the company business could be harmed by strikes or work stoppages. as of april 30, 2009, approximately 34 percent of the company employees, located at 11 facilities, are covered by union contracts. these contracts vary in term depending on location. the company cannot assure that it will be able to negotiate these collective bargaining agreements on the same or more favorable terms as the current agreements, or at all, without production interruptions caused by labor stoppages. if a strike or work stoppage were to occur in connection with negotiations of new collective bargaining agreements, or as a result of disputes under collective bargaining agreements with labor unions, the company business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. if there is a significant interruption in the operation of any of the company facilities or third-party distribution centers, the company may not have the capacity to service its customers in a timely manner, thereby reducing its revenues and earnings. a significant interruption in the operation of any of the company facilities or third-party distribution centers, particularly facilities in new orleans where approximately 80 percent of the company coffee production capacity is located, whether as a result of a natural disaster, flu pandemic, or other causes, could significantly impair the company ability to operate its business. for example, in august 2005, hurricane katrina caused catastrophic damage to the new orleans area. following the hurricane, production at the new orleans facility was interrupted for approximately two months, resulting in a significant decline in coffee revenues for the first half of fiscal 2006. a significant interruption in the operation of one of the company facilities or third-party distribution centers may affect its ability to service all of its customers, and business may be lost to its competitors, resulting in a material adverse effect to the company revenues, earnings, and financial position. 8 table of contents the effects of a potential pandemic illness could adversely affect the company businesses. an outbreak of pandemic illness in a given location could severely interfere with and substantially disrupt the company supply chain impacting the manufacture and/or shipment of the company products and could have a material adverse effect on its operations. a prolonged recurrence of a pandemic illness could also adversely affect the company customers and cause an immediate and prolonged drop in consumer demand for the company products. any of these events could adversely affect the company financial condition and results of operations. the general impact, if any, of a pandemic illness on the company operations, its results of operations and financial condition is highly speculative, cannot be accurately predicted or quantified, and would depend on numerous factors, including the rate of contagion, the regions most affected, the effectiveness of treatment for the infected population and the rates of mortality and morbidity. impairment in the carrying value of acquired goodwill or other intangible assets could negatively affect the company consolidated operating results and net worth. a significant portion of the company assets is goodwill and other intangible assets, the majority of which are not amortized but are reviewed at least annually for impairment. if the carrying value of these assets exceeds the current fair value, the asset is considered impaired and is reduced to fair value resulting in a noncash charge to earnings. events and conditions that could result in impairment include a sustained drop in the market price of the company common shares, increased competition or loss of market share, product innovation or obsolescence, or product claims that result in a significant loss of sales or profitability over the product life. at april 30, 2009, the carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets totaled approximately $5.9 billion, compared to total assets of approximately $8.2 billion and total shareholders equity of approximately $4.9 billion. the results of the company may be adversely impacted as a result of limited availability and increases in the price of raw materials, including agricultural commodities and fuel. the company utilizes many different commodities and agricultural products in the manufacturing of its products including green coffee, peanuts, corn sweeteners, edible oils, sugar, fruit, wheat, milk, and cocoa. in addition, natural gas and fuel oil are necessary components of the manufacturing process, packaging, and distribution of the company products. these commodities and agricultural products are subject to price volatility caused by commodity market fluctuations, the quality and availability of supply, weather, currency fluctuations, speculative influences, trade agreements, political unrest, consumer demand, and changes in governmental agricultural programs. although the company utilizes forward contracts and commodity futures and option contracts to manage commodity prices in some instances, commodity price increases ultimately result in corresponding increases in the company raw material and energy costs. the company may be limited in its ability to pass these cost increases on in the form of price increases or may incur a loss in sales volume to the extent pricing increases are taken. the company efforts to manage commodity and other price volatility through derivative instruments could adversely affect its results of operations and financial condition. the company uses derivative instruments, including commodity futures and options, to reduce the price volatility associated with anticipated commodity purchases. the extent of the company derivative position at any given time depends on the company assessment of the markets for these commodities. if the company fails to take a derivative position and prices subsequently increase, or if it institutes a position and prices subsequently decrease, the company costs may be greater than anticipated and financial results could be adversely affected. in addition, the company liquidity may be adversely impacted by the cash margin requirements of the commodities exchanges or the failure of a counterparty to perform in accordance with a contract. 9 table of contents increases in logistics and other transportation-related costs could materially adversely impact the company results of operations. the company ability to competitively serve customers depends on the availability of reliable transportation . logistics and other transportation-related costs have a significant impact on the company earnings and results of operations. the company uses multiple forms of transportation to bring the company products to market. they include ships, trucks, intermodals, and railcars. disruption to the timely supply of these services or increases in the cost of these services for any reason, including availability or cost of fuel, regulations affecting the industry, labor shortages in the transportation industry, service failures by third-party service providers, or natural disasters (which may impact the transportation infrastructure or demand for transportation services), could have an adverse effect on the company ability to serve its customers, and could have a material adverse effect on financial performance. the results of the company may be adversely impacted by growth in alternative energy markets. the company competes for certain raw materials, notably corn and soy-based agricultural products, with the emerging bio-fuels industry. growth in the bio-fuels industry, which is typically linked to increases in gasoline and diesel prices, may limit the supply of certain raw materials available to the company. additionally, farm acreage currently devoted to other agricultural products utilized by the company may be converted to corn or soy resulting in higher cost for other agricultural products utilized by the company. the company may be unable to maintain or improve its profit margins in the face of a consolidating retail environment. in addition, the loss of the company largest customer could negatively impact its sales and profits. sales to wal-mart stores, inc. and its subsidiaries amounted to approximately 24 percent of the company net sales in 2009. these sales are primarily included in the three u.s. retail market segments. trade receivables at april 30, 2009, included amounts due from wal-mart stores, inc. and its subsidiaries of approximately $73.2 million. during 2009, the company top 10 customers, collectively, accounted for approximately 61 percent of consolidated net sales. the company expects that a significant portion of its revenues will continue to be derived from a small number of customers. the company customers are generally not contractually obligated to purchase from the company. these customers make purchase decisions based on a combination of price, product quality, consumer demand, customer service performance, their desired inventory levels, and other factors. changes in customers strategies, including a reduction in the number of brands they carry or a shift of shelf space to private label products may adversely affect sales. additionally, the company customers may face financial or other difficulties that may impact their operations and their purchases from the company, which could adversely affect results of operations. customers also may respond to price increases by reducing distribution, resulting in reduced sales of the company products. if sales of products to one or more of these customers are reduced, this reduction may have a material adverse effect on the company business, financial condition, and results of operations. bankruptcy or other business disruption of a significant customer could adversely affect the company results of operations. the company uses a single national broker to represent a significant portion of the company branded products to the retail grocery trade and any failure by the broker to effectively represent the company would adversely affect the company business. the company uses a single national broker to represent a significant portion of branded products to the retail grocery trade. the company business would suffer substantial disruption if this broker were to default in the performance of its obligations to perform brokerage services or if this broker fails to effectively represent the company to the retail grocery trade. 10 table of contents changes in tax, environmental, or other regulations and laws or failure to comply with existing licensing, trade, and other regulations and laws could have a material adverse effect on the company consolidated financial condition. the company operations are subject to regulation by the u.s. departments of agriculture, commerce, and labor, the u.s. food and drug administration, the u.s. federal trade commission, as well as similar and other authorities of canada, various state, provincial and local governments, and voluntary regulatory and trade associations. the manufacturing, marketing, and distribution of food products are each subject to governmental regulation that is increasingly extensive, encompassing such matters as ingredients, advertising, relations with distributors and retailers, health, safety, and the environment. additionally, the company is routinely subject to new or modified tax and securities regulations, other laws and regulation, and accounting and reporting standards. the company failure or inability to comply with these requirements could subject the company to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, recalls or seizures, as well as potential criminal sanctions. the results of the company may be adversely impacted as a result of changes in defined benefit pension and other postretirement plan factors or regulations. the company has defined benefit pension plans covering certain of its u.s. and canadian employees. in addition to the defined benefit pension plans, the company sponsors several unfunded, defined postretirement plans. the company obligations and expense associated with these plans are recorded in the company financial statements based on assumptions related to inflation, investment returns, mortality, employee turnover, rate of compensation increases, medical costs, and discount rates. changes in any of these assumptions, as well as changes in regulations governing these plans, can cause volatility in recorded assets, liabilities, expenses, and future funding requirements. volatility in the equity markets or interest rates could substantially increase the company pension costs and required pension contributions. the company sponsors qualified defined benefit pension plans and various other nonqualified postretirement plans. the qualified defined benefit pension plans are funded with trust assets invested in a diversified portfolio of debt and equity securities and other investments. among other factors, changes in interest rates, investment returns and the market value of plan assets can (i) affect the level of plan funding; (ii) cause volatility in the net periodic pension cost; and (iii) increase the company future contribution requirements. a significant decrease in investment returns or the market value of plan assets or a significant decrease in interest rates could increase the company net periodic pension costs and adversely affect its results of operations. a significant increase in the company contribution requirements with respect to qualified defined benefit pension plans could have an adverse impact on its cash flow. the company operations are subject to the general risks associated with acquisitions. the company stated long-term strategy is to own and market leading north american food brands sold in the center of the store. the company has historically made strategic acquisitions of brands and businesses and intends to do so in the future in support of this strategy. the success of past and future acquisitions is dependent on the company ability to successfully integrate acquired and existing operations. if the company is unable to integrate acquisitions successfully, its financial results could suffer. additional potential risks associated with acquisitions are the diversion of management attention from other business concerns, additional debt leverage, the loss of key employees and customers of the acquired business, the assumption of unknown liabilities, disputes with sellers, and the inherent risk associated with the company entering a line of business in which it has no prior experience. 11 table of contents the anticipated benefits from the folgers transaction may not be realized. the company may not realize the full benefits of the increased sales volume and other benefits that are currently expected to result from the folgers transaction, or realize these benefits within the time frame that is currently expected. for example, the elimination of duplicative costs may not be possible or may take longer than anticipated. in addition, the benefits of the folgers transaction may be offset by operating losses relating to changes in commodity or energy prices, increased competition, or by other risks and uncertainties. if the company fails to realize the benefits it anticipates from the folgers transaction, the company results of operations may be adversely affected. disruptions in the financial markets may adversely affect the company ability to access capital in the future. the company may need new or additional financing in the future to conduct its operations, expand its business or refinance existing indebtedness. recent disruptions in global financial markets and banking systems have made credit and capital markets more difficult for companies to access, even for some companies with established revolving or other credit facilities. any sustained weakness in the general economic conditions and/or financial markets in the united states or globally could affect adversely the company ability to raise capital on favorable terms or at all. from time to time the company has relied, and also may rely in the future, on access to financial markets as a source of liquidity for working capital requirements, acquisitions and general corporate purposes. the company access to funds under its revolving credit facilities is dependent on the ability of the financial institutions that are parties to those facilities to meet their funding commitments. the obligations of the financial institutions under the company revolving credit facilities are several and not joint and, as a result, a funding default by one or more institutions does not need to be made up by the others. longer term volatility and continued disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation of financial institutions, reduced alternatives or failure of significant financial institutions could affect adversely the company access to the liquidity needed for its businesses in the longer term. such disruptions could require the company to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for its business needs can be arranged. the disruptions in the capital and credit markets also have resulted in higher interest rates on publicly issued debt securities and increased costs under credit facilities. continuation of these disruptions would increase the company interest expense and capital costs and could affect adversely its results of operations and financial position. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk are incorporated herein by reference to the information set forth in the company 2009 annual report to shareholders under the caption derivative financial instruments and market risk on page 26.risk factors. risk factors. the company business, operations, and financial condition are subject to various risks and uncertainties. the risk factors described below should be carefully considered, together with the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this report and in the company other filings with the sec, in connection with evaluating the company, its business and the forward-looking statements contained in this report. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the company or that the company currently deems immaterial also may affect the company. the occurrence of any of these known or unknown risks could have a material adverse impact on the company business, financial condition, and results of operations. the company operates in the competitive food industry and relies on continued demand for the company products. the company faces competition across its product lines from other food companies with the primary methods and factors in competition being product quality, price, packaging, new product introductions, nutritional value, convenience, customer service, advertising, and promotion. in order to generate future revenues and profits, the company must continue to sell products that appeal to the company customers and consumers. specifically, there are a number of trends in consumer preferences that may impact the company and the food industry as a whole including convenience, consumer dietary trends, and obesity, health and nutritional concerns. in particular, consumers, public health officials, and government officials are becoming increasingly concerned about the public health consequences associated with weight management, particularly among young people. prolonged negative perceptions concerning the health implications of certain food products could influence consumer preferences and acceptance of some of the company products and marketing programs. although the company strives to respond to consumer preferences and social expectations, it may not be successful in these efforts. increasing public concern regarding health issues and failure to satisfy consumer preferences could decrease demand for the company products and adversely affect the company profitability. continued success is dependent on product innovation, the ability to secure and maintain adequate retail shelf space, and effective trade merchandising, advertising, and marketing programs. some of the company competitors have substantial financial, marketing, and other resources, and competition with them in the company various markets and product lines could cause the company to reduce prices, increase marketing or other expenditures, or lose category share. category share and growth could be adversely impacted if the company is not successful in introducing new products. 6 table of contents consumers may shift purchases to lower-priced private label or other value offerings during economic downturns, which may adversely affect the company results of operations. during economic downturns, consumers may be less willing or able to pay a price differential for the company branded products, and may increasingly purchase more lower-priced offerings and may forego some purchases altogether. the company has experienced increased competitive pressure from private label products during recent periods. retailers may also increase levels of promotional activity for lower-priced or value offerings as they seek to maintain sales volumes during times of economic uncertainty. accordingly, economic downturns could reduce sales volumes of the company branded products or lead to a shift in sales mix toward its lower margin offerings, which could have an adverse effect on its results of operations. the success of the company business depends substantially on consumer perceptions of its brands. the company believes that maintaining and continually enhancing the value of its brands is critical to the success of its business. brand value is based in large part on consumer perceptions. success in promoting and enhancing brand value depends in large part on the company ability to provide high quality products. brand value could diminish significantly as a result of a number of factors, such as if the company fails to preserve the quality of its products, if the company is perceived to act in an irresponsible manner, if the company or its brands otherwise receive negative publicity, if the brands fail to deliver a consistently positive consumer experience or if the products become unavailable to consumers. if the company brand values are diminished, the company revenues and operating results could be materially adversely affected. in addition, anything that harms the pillsbury , carnation , borden , or dunkin donuts brand could adversely affect the success of the company exclusive licensing agreements with the owners of these brands. the company proprietary coffee brands, packaging designs, and roasting methods are essential to the value of the coffee business and the inability to protect these could harm the value of its brands and adversely affect the company sales and profitability. the success of the coffee business depends significantly on its brands, know-how, and other intellectual property. the company relies on a combination of trademarks, service marks, trade secrets, patents, copyrights, and similar rights to protect its intellectual property. the success of the company growth strategy depends on its continued ability to use its existing trademarks and service marks in order to maintain and increase brand awareness and further develop its brand. if the company efforts to protect its intellectual property are not adequate, or if any third party misappropriates or infringes on its intellectual property, the value of the company brand may be harmed, which could have a material adverse effect on its business. from time to time, the company is engaged in litigation to protect its intellectual property, which could result in substantial costs to the company as well as diversion of management attention. additionally, the company considers its proprietary roasting methods essential to the consistent flavor and richness of its coffee products and, therefore, essential to its brands. because many of the roasting methods used by the company are not protected by patents, it may be difficult for the company to prevent competitors from copying its roasting methods if such methods become known. the company also believes that its packaging innovations, such as brick packaging technology and its aromaseal tm canisters, are important to the coffee business marketing and operational efforts. if the company competitors copy its roasting or packaging methods or develop more advanced roasting or packaging methods, the value of the company coffee brands may be diminished, and the company could lose customers to its competitors. 7 table of contents the company operations are subject to the general risks of the food industry. the food industry is subject to risks posed by food spoilage and contamination, product tampering, product recall, and consumer product liability claims. the company operations could be impacted by both genuine and fictitious claims regarding the company and competitors products. in the event of product contamination or tampering, the company may need to recall some of its products. a widespread product recall could result in significant loss due to the cost of conducting a product recall, including destruction of inventory and the loss of sales resulting from the unavailability of product for a period of time. the company could also suffer losses from a significant product liability judgment against it. either a significant product recall or a product liability judgment, involving either the company or its competitors, could also result in a loss of consumer confidence in the company food products or the food category, and an actual or perceived loss of value of the company brands, materially impacting consumer demand. the company could be subject to adverse publicity or claims from consumers. certain of the company products contain caffeine and other active compounds, the health effects of which are the subject of increasing public scrutiny, including the suggestion that consumption of coffee, caffeine and other active compounds may have adverse health effects. an unfavorable report on the health effects of caffeine or other compounds present in the company products, product recalls or negative publicity or litigation arising from other health risks could significantly reduce the demand for the company products. the company may also be subject to complaints from or litigation by consumers who allege food and beverage-related illness, or other quality, health or operational concerns. adverse publicity resulting from such allegations could materially adversely affect the company, regardless of whether such allegations are true or whether the company is ultimately held liable. a lawsuit or claim could result in an adverse decision against the company, which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. certain of the company products are sourced from single manufacturing sites. the company has consolidated its production capacity for certain products into single manufacturing sites. in addition, the company has announced plans to further consolidate its coffee, fruit spreads, syrups, and topping production as part of its current restructuring project. the company could experience a production disruption at these or any of its manufacturing sites resulting in a reduction or elimination of the availability of some of the company products. if the company is not able to obtain alternate production capability in a timely manner, a negative impact on the company operations could result. the company business could be harmed by strikes or work stoppages. as of april 30, 2010, approximately 32 percent of the company employees, located at 10 facilities, are covered by union contracts. these contracts vary in term depending on location. the company cannot assure that it will be able to negotiate these collective bargaining agreements on the same or more favorable terms as the current agreements, or at all, without production interruptions caused by labor stoppages. if a strike or work stoppage were to occur in connection with negotiations of new collective bargaining agreements, or as a result of disputes under collective bargaining agreements with labor unions, the company business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 8 table of contents if there is a significant interruption in the operation of any of the company facilities, third-party distribution centers, or supplier facilities, the company may not have the capacity to service its customers in a timely manner, thereby reducing its revenues and earnings. a significant interruption in the operation of any of the company facilities, third-party distribution centers, or supplier facilities, whether as a result of a natural disaster, flu pandemic, or other causes, could significantly impair the company ability to operate its business. notably, approximately 80 percent of the company current coffee production capabilities are in new orleans, louisiana. after completion of the company current restructuring project, substantially all of the company coffee production will be in new orleans which is subject to risks associated with hurricane and other weather-related events. for example, in august 2005, hurricane katrina caused catastrophic damage to the new orleans area. following the hurricane, production at the new orleans facility was interrupted for approximately two months, resulting in a significant decline in coffee revenues for the first half of fiscal 2006. a similar significant interruption in the operation of one of the company facilities, third-party distribution centers, or supplier facilities may affect its ability to service all of its customers, and business may be lost to its competitors, resulting in a material adverse effect to the company revenues, earnings, and financial position. the effects of a potential pandemic illness could adversely affect the company businesses. an outbreak of pandemic illness in a given location could severely interfere with and substantially disrupt the company supply chain impacting the manufacture and/or shipment of the company products, which could have a material adverse effect on its operations. a prolonged recurrence of a pandemic illness could also adversely affect the company customers and cause an immediate and prolonged drop in consumer demand for the company products. any of these events could adversely affect the company financial condition and results of operations. the general impact, if any, of a pandemic illness on the company operations, its results of operations and financial condition is highly speculative, cannot be accurately predicted or quantified, and would depend on numerous factors, including the rate of contagion, the regions most affected, the effectiveness of treatment for the infected population and the rates of mortality and morbidity. a material impairment in the carrying value of acquired goodwill or other intangible assets could negatively affect the company consolidated operating results and net worth. a significant portion of the company assets is goodwill and other intangible assets, the majority of which are not amortized but are reviewed at least annually for impairment. if the carrying value of these assets exceeds the current fair value, the asset is considered impaired and is reduced to fair value resulting in a noncash charge to earnings. events and conditions that could result in impairment include a sustained drop in the market price of the company common shares, increased competition or loss of market share, product innovation or obsolescence, or product claims that result in a significant loss of sales or profitability over the product life. at april 30, 2010, the carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets totaled approximately $5.8 billion, compared to total assets of approximately $8.0 billion and total shareholders equity of approximately $5.3 billion. the results of the company may be adversely impacted as a result of limited availability and increases in the price of raw materials, including agricultural commodities and fuel. the company utilizes many different commodities and agricultural products in the manufacturing of its products including green coffee, peanuts, corn sweeteners, edible oils, sugar, fruit, wheat, milk, and cocoa. in addition, natural gas and fuel oil are necessary components of the manufacturing process, packaging, and distribution of the company products. these commodities and agricultural products are subject to price volatility caused by commodity market fluctuations, the quality and availability of supply, weather, currency fluctuations, speculative influences, trade agreements, political unrest, consumer demand, and changes in governmental agricultural programs. although the company utilizes forward contracts and commodity futures 9 table of contents and option contracts to manage commodity price volatility in some instances, commodity price increases ultimately result in corresponding increases in the company raw material and energy costs. the company may be limited in its ability to pass these cost increases on in the form of price increases or may incur a decrease in sales volume to the extent pricing increases are taken. loss or interruption of supply from single-source suppliers of raw materials could have a disruptive effect on the company business and adversely affect its results of operations. the company has elected to source certain raw materials, such as packaging for its most popular folgers coffee products, as well as its jif peanut butter and crisco oil products, from single sources of supply. while the company believes that alternative sources of these packaging materials could be obtained on commercially reasonable terms, loss or an extended interruption in supplies from a single-source supplier would result in additional costs, could have a disruptive short-term effect on the company business and could adversely affect its results of operations. the company efforts to manage commodity and other price volatility through derivative instruments could adversely affect its results of operations and financial condition. the company uses derivative instruments, including commodity futures and options, to reduce the price volatility associated with anticipated commodity purchases. the extent of the company derivative position at any given time depends on the company assessment of the markets for these commodities. if the company fails to take a derivative position and costs subsequently increase, or if it institutes a position and costs subsequently decrease, the company costs may be greater than anticipated and financial results could be adversely affected. in addition, the company liquidity may be adversely impacted by the cash margin requirements of the commodities exchanges or the failure of a counterparty to perform in accordance with a contract. increases in logistics and other transportation-related costs could adversely impact the company results of operations. the company ability to competitively serve customers depends on the availability of reliable transportation . logistics and other transportation-related costs have a significant impact on the company earnings and results of operations. the company uses multiple forms of transportation to bring the company products to market. they include ships, trucks, intermodals, and railcars. disruption to the timely supply of these services or increases in the cost of these services for any reason, including availability or cost of fuel, regulations affecting the industry, labor shortages in the transportation industry, service failures by third-party service providers, accidents or natural disasters (which may impact the transportation infrastructure or demand for transportation services), could have an adverse effect on the company ability to serve its customers, and could have a material adverse effect on financial performance. in april 2010, the deepwater horizon, an unrelated, third-party operated offshore drilling platform, exploded and caused an oil spill in the gulf of mexico. green coffee and other raw materials used in the company coffee businesses are transported through the port of new orleans. as of april 30, 2010, the oil spill had not been contained and could disrupt shipping traffic in and out of the port of new orleans and other ports. such a disruption could increase the company transportation-related costs, which could adversely affect its results of operations. the results of the company may be adversely impacted by growth in alternative energy markets. the company competes for certain raw materials, notably corn and soy-based agricultural products, with the emerging bio-fuels industry. growth in the bio-fuels industry, which is typically linked to increases in gasoline and diesel prices, may limit the supply of certain raw materials available to the company. additionally, farm acreage currently devoted to other agricultural products utilized by the company may be converted to corn or soy resulting in higher cost for other agricultural products utilized by the company. 10 table of contents the company may be unable to maintain or improve its profit margins in the consolidating retail environment. in addition, the loss of the company largest customer could negatively impact its sales and profits. sales to wal-mart stores, inc. and its subsidiaries amounted to approximately 27 percent of the company net sales in 2010. these sales are primarily included in the three u.s. retail market segments. trade receivables at april 30, 2010, included amounts due from wal-mart stores, inc. and its subsidiaries of approximately $61.2 million. during 2010, the company top 10 customers, collectively, accounted for approximately 58 percent of consolidated net sales. the company expects that a significant portion of its revenues will continue to be derived from a small number of customers. the company customers are generally not contractually obligated to purchase from the company. these customers make purchase decisions based on a combination of price, product quality, consumer demand, customer service performance, their desired inventory levels, and other factors. changes in customers strategies, including a reduction in the number of brands they carry or a shift of shelf space to private label products, may adversely affect sales. additionally, the company customers may face financial or other difficulties that may impact their operations and their purchases from the company, which could adversely affect results of operations. customers also may respond to price increases by reducing distribution, resulting in reduced sales of the company products. if sales of products to one or more of these customers are reduced, this reduction may have a material adverse effect on the company business, financial condition, and results of operations. bankruptcy or other business disruption of a significant customer could adversely affect the company results of operations. the company uses a single national broker to represent a significant portion of the company branded products to the retail grocery trade and any failure by the broker to effectively represent the company would adversely affect the company business. the company uses a single national broker to represent a significant portion of branded products to the retail grocery trade. the company business would suffer substantial disruption if this broker were to default in the performance of its obligations to perform brokerage services or if this broker fails to effectively represent the company to the retail grocery trade. changes in tax, environmental, or other regulations and laws or failure to comply with existing licensing, trade, and other regulations and laws could have a material adverse effect on the company financial condition. the company operations are subject to regulation by the u.s. departments of agriculture, commerce, and labor, the u.s. food and drug administration, and the u.s. federal trade commission, as well as similar and other authorities of canada, various state, provincial and local governments, and voluntary regulatory and trade associations. the manufacturing, marketing, packaging, labeling, and distribution of food products are each subject to governmental regulation that is increasingly extensive, encompassing such matters as ingredients, advertising, relations with distributors and retailers, health, safety, and the environment. additionally, the company is routinely subject to new or modified tax and securities regulations, other laws and regulation, and accounting and reporting standards. in the u.s., the company is required to comply with federal laws, such as the food, drug and cosmetic act, the occupational safety and health act, the clean air act, the clean water act, the resource conservation and recovery act, laws governing equal employment opportunity, and various other federal statutes and regulations. the company is also subject to various state and local statutes and regulations. for instance, the california safe drinking water and toxic enforcement act of 1986 (commonly referred to as proposition 65 ) requires that a specific warning appear on any product sold in the state of california that contains a substance listed by 11 table of contents that state as having been found to cause cancer or birth defects. this law exposes all food and beverage producers to the possibility of having to provide warnings on their products. the detection of even a trace amount of a listed substance can subject an affected product to the requirement of a warning label. products containing listed substances that occur naturally or that are contributed to such products solely by a municipal water supply are generally exempt from the warning requirement. if the company is required to add warning labels to any of its products or place warnings in certain locations where its products are sold as a result of proposition 65, sales of those products could suffer not only in those locations but elsewhere. complying with new regulations and laws, or changes to existing regulations and laws, or their application could increase the company production costs or adversely affect the company sales of certain products. in addition, the company failure or inability to comply with applicable regulations and laws could subject the company to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, recalls or seizures, as well as potential criminal sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on the company business and financial condition. changes in climate or legal, regulatory or market measures to address climate change may negatively affect the company business and operations. while scientific consensus on the existence, potential causes, or likely outcomes of global climate change has not yet been reached, researchers continue to aggressively explore this issue. however, there already exists significant political and scientific concern that emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases may alter the composition of the global atmosphere in ways that are affecting and are expected to continue affecting the global climate. the emission of such greenhouse gases may have an adverse impact on global temperatures, weather patterns, and the frequency and severity of extreme weather and natural disasters. in the event that climate change may have a negative effect on agricultural productivity, the company may be subject to decreased availability or less favorable pricing for certain commodities that are necessary for its products, such as green coffee, peanuts, corn sweeteners, edible oils, sugar, wheat, milk, cocoa, and various fruits and vegetables. the company may also be subjected to decreased availability or less favorable pricing for water as a result of such change, which could impact its manufacturing and distribution operations. in addition, natural disasters and extreme weather conditions may disrupt the productivity of facilities or the operation of the company supply chain. increasing concern over climate change also may result in more regulatory requirements related to greenhouse gases. many states have announced or adopted programs to stabilize and reduce greenhouse gas emission, and federal legislation has been proposed in congress. it is possible that federal legislation limiting greenhouse gas emissions may be imposed in the u.s. in the future. in the event that regulations are enacted and are more rigorous than existing regulations, the company may experience significant increases in costs of operation and delivery. in particular, increased regulation of utility providers, fuel emissions, or suppliers could substantially increase the company operating, distribution, or supply chain costs. the company could also face increased costs related to defending and resolving legal claims and other litigation related to climate change and the alleged impact of the company operations on climate change. as a result, climate change could negatively affect the company results of operations, cash flows, or financial position. the results of the company may be adversely impacted as a result of changes in defined benefit pension and other postretirement plan factors or regulations. the company has defined benefit pension plans covering certain of its u.s. and canadian employees. in addition to the defined benefit pension plans, the company sponsors several unfunded, defined postretirement plans. the company obligations and expense associated with these plans are recorded in the company financial statements based on assumptions related to inflation, investment returns, mortality, employee turnover, rate of compensation increases, medical costs, and discount rates. changes in regulations governing these plans, changes in plan 12 table of contents assumptions, and differences between assumed and actual investment returns and interest rates can cause volatility in recorded assets, liabilities, expenses, and future funding requirements. the company operations are subject to the general risks associated with acquisitions. the company stated long-term strategy is to own and market leading north american food brands sold in the center of the store. the company has historically made strategic acquisitions of brands and businesses and intends to do so in the future in support of this strategy. the success of past and future acquisitions depends on the company ability to successfully integrate acquired and existing operations. if the company is unable to integrate acquisitions successfully, its financial results could suffer. additional potential risks associated with acquisitions are the diversion of management attention from other business concerns, additional debt leverage, the loss of key employees and customers of the acquired business, the assumption of unknown liabilities, disputes with sellers, and the inherent risk associated with the company entering a line of business in which it has no or limited prior experience. if the company is unable to protect its information systems against data corruption, cyber-based attacks or network security breaches, the company operations could be disrupted. the company relies on information technology networks and systems, including the internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information. in particular, the company depends on its information technology infrastructure for digital marketing activities and electronic communications between company personnel and its customers and suppliers. security breaches of this infrastructure can create system disruptions, shutdowns or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. if the company is unable to prevent such breaches, its operations could be disrupted, or it may suffer financial damage or loss because of lost or misappropriated information. disruptions in the financial markets may adversely affect the company ability to access capital in the future. the company may need new or additional financing in the future to conduct its operations, expand its business or refinance existing indebtedness. disruptions in global financial markets and banking systems may make credit and capital markets more difficult for companies to access, even for some companies with established revolving or other credit facilities. any sustained weakness in the general economic conditions and/or financial markets in the u.s. or globally could adversely affect the company ability to raise capital on favorable terms or at all. from time to time, the company has relied, and also may rely in the future, on access to financial markets as a source of liquidity for working capital requirements, acquisitions, and general corporate purposes. the company access to funds under its revolving credit facilities is dependent on the ability of the financial institutions that are parties to those facilities to meet their funding commitments. the obligations of the financial institutions under the company revolving credit facilities are several and not joint and, as a result, a funding default by one or more institutions does not need to be made up by the others. long-term volatility and disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation of financial institutions, reduced alternatives, or failure of significant financial institutions could adversely affect the company access to the liquidity needed for its businesses in the longer term. such disruptions could require the company to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for its business needs can be arranged. disruptions in the capital and credit markets could result in higher interest rates on publicly issued debt securities and increased costs under credit facilities. continuation of these disruptions would increase the company interest expense and capital costs and could adversely affect its results of operations and financial position. 13 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk are incorporated herein by reference to the information set forth in the company 2010 annual report to shareholders under the caption derivative financial instruments and market risk on pages 27 and 28.risk factors. risk factors. the company business, operations, and financial condition are subject to various risks and uncertainties. the risk factors described below should be carefully considered, together with the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this report and in the company other filings with the sec, in connection with evaluating the company, its business and the forward-looking statements contained in this report. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the company or that the company currently deems immaterial also may affect the company. the occurrence of any of these known or unknown risks could have a material adverse impact on the company business, financial condition, and results of operations. the company operates in the competitive food industry and relies on continued demand for the company products. the company faces competition across its product lines from other food companies with the primary methods and factors in competition being product quality, price, packaging, new product introductions, nutritional value, convenience, customer service, advertising, and promotion. in order to generate future revenues and profits, the company must continue to sell products that appeal to its customers and consumers. specifically, there are a number of trends in consumer preferences that may impact the company and the food industry as a whole including convenience, taste, consumer dietary trends, and obesity, health, and nutritional concerns. in particular, consumers, public health officials, and government officials are becoming increasingly concerned about the public health consequences associated with weight management, particularly among young people. prolonged negative perceptions concerning the health implications of certain food products could influence consumer preferences and acceptance of some of the company products and marketing programs. although the company strives to respond to consumer preferences and social expectations, it may not be successful in these efforts. increasing public concern regarding health issues and failure to satisfy consumer preferences could decrease demand for certain of the company products and adversely affect the company profitability. 6 table of contents continued success is dependent on product innovation, the ability to secure and maintain adequate retail shelf space, and effective trade merchandising, advertising, and marketing programs. some of the company competitors have substantial financial, marketing, and other resources, and competition with them in the company various markets and product lines could cause the company to reduce prices, increase marketing or other expenditures, or lose category share. category share and growth could be adversely impacted if the company is not successful in introducing new products. the success of the company business depends substantially on consumer perceptions of its brands. the company believes that maintaining and continually enhancing the value of its brands is critical to the success of its business. brand value is based in large part on consumer perceptions. success in promoting and enhancing brand value depends in large part on the company ability to provide high quality products. brand value could diminish significantly as a result of a number of factors, such as if the company fails to preserve the quality of its products, if the company is perceived to act in an irresponsible manner, if the company or its brands otherwise receive negative publicity, if the brands fail to deliver a consistently positive consumer experience, or if the products become unavailable to consumers. the growing use of social and digital media by consumers increases the speed and extent that information and opinions can be shared. if the company brand values are diminished, the company revenues and operating results could be materially adversely affected. in addition, anything that harms the pillsbury , carnation , borden , or dunkin donuts brands could adversely affect the success of the company exclusive licensing agreements with the owners of these brands. the company operations are subject to the general risks of the food industry. the food industry is subject to risks posed by food spoilage and contamination, product tampering, product recall, and consumer product liability claims. the company operations could be impacted by both genuine and fictitious claims regarding the company and its competitors products. in the event of product contamination or tampering, the company may need to recall some of its products. a widespread product recall could result in significant loss due to the cost of conducting a product recall, including destruction of inventory and the loss of sales resulting from the unavailability of product for a period of time. the company could also suffer losses from a significant product liability judgment against it. a significant product recall or a product liability judgment, involving either the company or its competitors, could also result in a loss of consumer confidence in the company food products or the food category, and an actual or perceived loss of value of the company brands, materially impacting consumer demand. the company could be subject to adverse publicity or claims from consumers. certain of the company products contain caffeine and other ingredients, the health effects of which are the subject of increasing public scrutiny, including the suggestion that consumption may have adverse health effects. an unfavorable report on the health effects of caffeine or other ingredients present in the company products, product recalls or negative publicity or litigation arising from other health risks could significantly reduce the demand for the company products. the company may also be subject to complaints from or litigation by consumers who allege food and beverage-related illness, or other quality, health or operational concerns. adverse publicity resulting from such allegations could materially adversely affect the company, regardless of whether such allegations are true or whether the company is ultimately held liable. a lawsuit or claim could result in an adverse decision against the company, which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, and results of operations. 7 table of contents the company may be unable to grow market share of its products. the company operates in the competitive food industry whose growth potential is generally correlated to population growth. the company success depends in part on its ability to grow its brands faster than the population in general. the company considers its ability to build and sustain the equity of its brands critical to its market share growth. if the company does not succeed in these efforts, its market share growth may slow, which could have a material impact on its results of operations. the company proprietary brands, packaging designs, and manufacturing methods are essential to the value of its business and the inability to protect these could harm the value of its brands and adversely affect the company sales and profitability. the success of the company business depends significantly on its brands, know-how, and other intellectual property. the company relies on a combination of trademarks, service marks, trade secrets, patents, copyrights, and similar rights to protect its intellectual property. the success of the company growth strategy depends on its continued ability to use its existing trademarks and service marks in order to maintain and increase brand awareness and further develop its brand. if the company efforts to protect its intellectual property are not adequate, or if any third party misappropriates or infringes on its intellectual property, the value of the company brand may be harmed, which could have a material adverse effect on its business. from time to time, the company is engaged in litigation to protect its intellectual property, which could result in substantial costs to the company as well as diversion of management attention. in particular, the company considers its proprietary coffee roasting methods essential to the consistent flavor and richness of its coffee products and, therefore, essential to its coffee brands. because many of the roasting methods used by the company are not protected by patents, it may be difficult for the company to prevent competitors from copying its roasting methods if such methods become known. the company also believes that its packaging innovations, such as brick packaging technology and its aromaseal tm canisters, are important to the coffee business marketing and operational efforts. if the company competitors copy its roasting or packaging methods or develop more advanced roasting or packaging methods, the value of the company coffee brands may be diminished, and the company could lose customers to its competitors. the company uses a single national broker to represent a significant portion of the company branded products to the retail grocery trade and any failure by the broker to effectively represent the company would adversely affect the company business. the company uses a single national broker to represent a significant portion of branded products to the retail grocery trade. the company business would suffer substantial disruption if this broker were to default in the performance of its obligations to perform brokerage services or if this broker fails to effectively represent the company to the retail grocery trade. the company may be unable to maintain or improve its profit margins in the concentrated retail environment. in addition, the loss of the company largest customer could negatively impact its sales and profits. sales to wal-mart stores, inc. and its subsidiaries amounted to approximately 26 percent of the company net sales in 2011. these sales are primarily included in the three u.s. retail market segments. trade receivables at april 30, 2011, included amounts due from wal-mart stores, inc. and its subsidiaries of approximately $87.6 million. during 2011, the company top 10 customers, collectively, accounted for approximately 55 percent of consolidated net sales. the company expects that a significant portion of its revenues will continue to be derived from a small number of customers. the company customers are generally not contractually obligated to purchase from the company. these customers make purchase decisions based on a combination of price, product quality, consumer demand, customer service performance, their 8 table of contents desired inventory levels, and other factors. changes in customers strategies, including a reduction in the number of brands they carry or a shift of shelf space to private label products, may adversely affect sales. additionally, the company customers may face financial or other difficulties that may impact their operations and their purchases from the company, which could adversely affect results of operations. customers also may respond to price increases by reducing distribution, resulting in reduced sales of the company products. if sales of products to one or more of these customers are reduced, this reduction may have a material adverse effect on the company business, financial condition, and results of operations. bankruptcy or other business disruption of a significant customer could adversely affect the company results of operations. loss or interruption of supply from single-source suppliers of raw materials and finished goods could have a disruptive effect on the company business and adversely affect its results of operations. the company has elected to source certain raw materials, such as packaging for its most popular folgers coffee products, as well as its jif peanut butter and crisco oil products, and finished goods from single sources of supply. while the company believes that alternative sources of these raw materials and finished goods could be obtained on commercially reasonable terms, loss or an extended interruption in supplies from a single-source supplier would result in additional costs, could have a disruptive short-term effect on the company business, and could adversely affect its results of operations. the results of the company may be adversely impacted as a result of increased cost, limited availability and/or insufficient quality of raw materials, including commodities and agricultural products. the company and its business partners purchase and use large quantities of many different commodities and agricultural products in the manufacturing of the company products including green coffee, peanuts, corn sweeteners, edible oils, sugar, fruit, wheat, milk, and cocoa. in addition, the company and its business partners utilize significant quantities of plastic, glass, and cardboard to package the company products and natural gas and fuel oil to manufacture, package, and distribute the company products. these commodities, agricultural products, and other materials are subject to price volatility and can fluctuate due to conditions that are difficult to predict, including global supply and demand, commodity market fluctuations, crop sizes and yield fluctuations, weather, currency fluctuations, speculative influences, trade agreements, political unrest, consumer demand, and changes in governmental agricultural programs. for example, in late fiscal 2011, costs to acquire peanuts increased, in part, due to adverse weather conditions. although the company utilizes forward contracts and commodity futures and option contracts to manage commodity price volatility in some instances, commodity price increases ultimately result in corresponding increases in the company raw material and energy costs. in particular, the price of green coffee has recently been subject to significant volatility and, in fiscal 2011, green coffee commodity prices increased significantly. in mid-march 2011, green coffee commodity prices reached a 34-year high at a level approximately 50 percent higher than they were eight months earlier and over 100 percent higher than they were a year earlier. the company expects the green coffee commodity market to continue to be challenging as the market continues to be influenced by worldwide demand, the weakness of the dollar, speculative trading, and weather and as producers in brazil-the world largest coffee producing country-enter a cyclically low production year in its biennial crop cycle. due to the significance of green coffee to the company coffee business, combined with the company ability to only partially mitigate future price risk through purchasing practices and hedging activities, significant increases or decreases in the cost of green coffee could have an adverse impact on the company profitability. 9 table of contents the company may be limited in its ability to pass cost increases on to its customers in the form of price increases or may realize a decrease in sales volume to the extent price increases are implemented. the company may not be able to pass some or all of any increases in the price of raw materials, energy, and other input costs to its customers by raising prices. to the extent competitors do not also increase their prices, customers and consumers may choose to purchase competing products or may shift purchases to lower-priced private label or other value offerings which may adversely affect the company results of operations. consumers may be less willing or able to pay a price differential for the company branded products, and may increasingly purchase more lower-priced offerings and may forego some purchases altogether, especially during economic downturns. retailers may also increase levels of promotional activity for lower-priced or value offerings as they seek to maintain sales volumes during times of economic uncertainty. accordingly, sales volumes of the company branded products could be reduced or lead to a shift in sales mix toward its lower margin offerings. as a result, decreased demand for the company products may adversely affect its results of operations. the company efforts to manage commodity and other price volatility through derivative instruments could adversely affect its results of operations and financial condition. the company uses derivative instruments, including commodity futures and options, to reduce the price volatility associated with anticipated commodity purchases. the extent of the company derivative position at any given time depends on the company assessment of the markets for these commodities. if the company fails to take a derivative position and costs subsequently increase, or if it institutes a position and costs subsequently decrease, the company costs may be greater than anticipated or higher than its competitors costs and financial results could be adversely affected. in addition, the company liquidity may be adversely impacted by the cash margin requirements of the commodities exchanges or the failure of a counterparty to perform in accordance with a contract. the results of the company may be adversely impacted by growth in alternative energy markets. the company competes for certain raw materials, notably corn and soy-based agricultural products, with the emerging bio-fuels industry. growth in the bio-fuels industry, which is typically linked to increases in gasoline and diesel prices, may limit the supply of certain raw materials available to the company. additionally, farm acreage currently devoted to other agricultural products utilized by the company may be converted to corn or soy resulting in higher cost for other agricultural products utilized by the company. certain of the company products are sourced from single manufacturing sites. the company has consolidated its production capacity for certain products into single manufacturing sites. in addition, the company is proceeding with plans to further consolidate its coffee, fruit spreads, syrups, and topping production as part of its current restructuring project. the company could experience a production disruption at these or any of its manufacturing sites resulting in a reduction or elimination of the availability of some of the company products. if the company is not able to obtain alternate production capability in a timely manner, a negative impact on the company operations could result. 10 table of contents if there is a significant interruption in the operation of any of the company facilities, third-party distribution centers, or supplier facilities, the company may not have the capacity to service its customers in a timely manner, thereby reducing its revenues and earnings. a significant interruption in the operation of any of the company facilities, third-party distribution centers, or supplier facilities, whether as a result of a natural disaster, flu pandemic, or other causes, could significantly impair the company ability to operate its business. notably, after completion of the company current restructuring project, substantially all of the company coffee production will be in new orleans which is subject to risks associated with hurricane and other weather-related events. following hurricane katrina in august 2005, production at the new orleans facility was interrupted for approximately two months, resulting in a significant decline in coffee revenues for several months. a similar significant interruption in the operation of one of the company facilities, third-party distribution centers, or supplier facilities may affect its ability to service all of its customers, and business may be lost to its competitors, resulting in a material adverse effect to the company revenues, earnings, and financial position. the company business could be harmed by strikes or work stoppages. as of april 30, 2011, approximately 32 percent of the company employees, located at 10 facilities, are covered by collective bargaining agreements. these contracts vary in term depending on location. the company cannot assure that it will be able to renew these collective bargaining agreements on the same or more favorable terms as the current agreements, or at all, without production interruptions caused by labor stoppages. if a strike or work stoppage were to occur in connection with negotiations of new collective bargaining agreements, or as a result of disputes under collective bargaining agreements with labor unions, the company business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. increases in logistics and other transportation-related costs could adversely impact the company results of operations. the company ability to competitively serve customers depends on the availability of reliable transportation . logistics and other transportation-related costs have a significant impact on the company earnings and results of operations. the company uses multiple forms of transportation to bring the company products to market. they include ships, trucks, intermodals, and railcars. disruption to the timely supply of these services or increases in the cost of these services for any reason, including availability or cost of fuel, regulations affecting the industry, labor shortages in the transportation industry, service failures by third-party service providers, accidents or natural disasters (which may impact the transportation infrastructure or demand for transportation services), could have an adverse effect on the company ability to serve its customers, and could have a material adverse effect on financial performance. the company may not achieve cost savings anticipated as a result of its restructuring initiatives. the company has periodically commenced restructuring initiatives with the expectation of realizing future benefits including operational efficiencies or cost savings. the future benefits the company expects from restructuring initiatives may not be realized during the time period expected, or at all, due to unforeseen or changing business conditions. in addition, costs incurred to realize the future benefits may be higher than anticipated and the company results of operations could be adversely affected. the company operations are subject to the general risks associated with acquisitions. the company stated long-term strategy is to own and market leading north american food brands sold in the center of the store. the company has historically made strategic acquisitions of brands and businesses and intends to do so in the future in support of this strategy. the 11 table of contents success of past and future acquisitions depends on the company ability to successfully integrate acquired and existing operations. if the company is unable to integrate acquisitions successfully, its financial results could suffer. additional potential risks associated with acquisitions are the diversion of management attention from other business concerns, additional debt leverage, the loss of key employees and customers of the acquired business, the assumption of unknown liabilities, disputes with sellers, and the inherent risk associated with the company entering a line of business in which it has no or limited prior experience. a material impairment in the carrying value of acquired goodwill or other intangible assets could negatively affect the company consolidated operating results and net worth. a significant portion of the company assets is goodwill and other intangible assets, the majority of which are not amortized but are reviewed at least annually for impairment. if the carrying value of these assets exceeds the current estimated fair value, the asset is considered impaired and could result in a noncash charge to earnings. events and conditions that could result in impairment include a sustained drop in the market price of the company common shares, increased competition or loss of market share, product innovation or obsolescence, or product claims that result in a significant loss of sales or profitability over the product life. at april 30, 2011, the carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets totaled approximately $5.8 billion, compared to total assets of approximately $8.3 billion and total shareholders equity of approximately $5.3 billion. the results of the u.s. retail oils and baking market segment have been impacted by a highly competitive and promotional environment over the last fiscal year. should competitive pressure in these categories be sustained, long-term assumptions relative to growth rates and profitability of certain brands within the segment may not be attained which could result in a material impairment. as of april 30, 2011, approximately 16 percent of the company total goodwill and 11 percent of the company total other intangible assets are assigned to the u.s. retail oils and baking market segment. the results of the company may be adversely impacted as a result of changes in defined benefit pension and other postretirement plan factors or regulations. the company has defined benefit pension plans covering certain of its u.s. and canadian employees. in addition to the defined benefit pension plans, the company sponsors several unfunded, defined postretirement plans. the company obligations and expense associated with these plans are recorded in the company financial statements based on assumptions related to inflation, investment returns, mortality, employee turnover, rate of compensation increases, medical costs, and discount rates. changes in regulations governing these plans, changes in plan assumptions, and differences between assumed and actual investment returns and interest rates can cause volatility in recorded assets, liabilities, expenses, and future funding requirements. the effects of a potential pandemic illness could adversely affect the company businesses. an outbreak of pandemic illness in a given location could severely interfere with and substantially disrupt the company supply chain impacting the manufacture and/or shipment of the company products, which could have a material adverse effect on its operations. a prolonged recurrence of a pandemic illness could also adversely affect the company customers and cause an immediate and prolonged drop in consumer demand for the company products. any of these events could adversely affect the company financial condition and results of operations. the general impact, if any, of a pandemic illness on the company operations, its results of operations and financial condition is highly speculative, cannot be accurately predicted or quantified, and would depend on numerous factors, including the rate of contagion, the regions most affected, the effectiveness of treatment for the infected population and the rates of mortality and morbidity. 12 table of contents changes in tax, environmental, or other regulations and laws, or their application, or failure to comply with existing licensing, trade, and other regulations and laws could have a material adverse effect on the company financial condition. the company operations are subject to regulation by the u.s. departments of agriculture, commerce, and labor, the u.s. food and drug administration, the u.s. federal trade commission, the u.s. securities and exchange commission, and the u.s. internal revenue service, as well as similar and other authorities of canada, various state, provincial and local governments, and voluntary regulatory and trade associations. the manufacturing, marketing, packaging, labeling, and distribution of food products are each subject to governmental regulation that is increasingly extensive, encompassing such matters as ingredients, advertising, relations with distributors and retailers, health, safety, and the environment. additionally, the company is routinely subject to new or modified tax and securities regulations, other laws and regulation, and accounting and reporting standards. in the u.s., the company is required to comply with federal laws, such as the food, drug and cosmetic act, the occupational safety and health act, the clean air act, the clean water act, the resource conservation and recovery act, laws governing equal employment opportunity, and various other federal statutes and regulations. the company is also subject to various state and local statutes and regulations. for instance, the california safe drinking water and toxic enforcement act of 1986 (commonly referred to as proposition 65 ) requires that a specific warning appear on any product sold in the state of california that contains a substance listed by that state as having been found to cause cancer or birth defects. this law exposes all food and beverage producers to the possibility of having to provide warnings on their products. the detection of even a trace amount of a listed substance can subject an affected product to the requirement of a warning label. products containing listed substances that occur naturally or that are contributed to such products solely by a municipal water supply are generally exempt from the warning requirement. if the company is required to add warning labels to any of its products or place warnings in certain locations where its products are sold as a result of proposition 65, sales of those products could suffer not only in those locations but elsewhere. complying with new regulations and laws, or changes to existing regulations and laws, or their application could increase the company production costs or adversely affect the company sales of certain products. in addition, the company failure or inability to comply with applicable regulations and laws could subject the company to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, recalls or seizures, as well as potential criminal sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on the company business and financial condition. changes in climate or legal, regulatory or market measures to address climate change may negatively affect the company business and operations. while scientific consensus on the existence, potential causes, or likely outcomes of global climate change has not yet been reached, researchers continue to aggressively explore this issue. however, there already exists significant political and scientific concern that emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases may alter the composition of the global atmosphere in ways that are affecting and are expected to continue affecting the global climate. the emission of such greenhouse gases may have an adverse impact on global temperatures, weather patterns, and the frequency and severity of extreme weather and natural disasters. in the event that climate change may have a negative effect on agricultural productivity, the company may be subject to decreased availability or less favorable pricing for certain commodities that are necessary for its products, such as green coffee, peanuts, corn sweeteners, edible oils, sugar, wheat, milk, cocoa, and various fruits and vegetables. the company may also be subjected to decreased availability or less favorable pricing for water as a result of such change, which could impact its manufacturing and distribution operations. in addition, natural disasters and extreme weather conditions may disrupt the productivity of facilities or the operation of the company supply chain. 13 table of contents increasing concern over climate change also may result in more regulatory requirements related to greenhouse gases. many states have announced or adopted programs to stabilize and reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and federal legislation has been proposed in congress. it is possible that federal legislation limiting greenhouse gas emissions may be imposed in the u.s. in the future. in the event that regulations are enacted and are more rigorous than existing regulations, the company may experience significant increases in costs of operation and delivery. in particular, increased regulation of utility providers, fuel emissions, or suppliers could substantially increase the company operating, distribution, or supply chain costs. the company could also face increased costs related to defending and resolving legal claims and other litigation related to climate change. as a result, climate change could negatively affect the company results of operations, cash flows, or financial position. if the company information technology systems fail to perform adequately or the company is unable to protect such information technology systems against data corruption, cyber-based attacks or network security breaches, the company operations could be disrupted. the company relies on information technology networks and systems, including the internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information. in particular, the company depends on its information technology infrastructure to effectively manage its business data, supply chain, logistics, accounting and other business processes and for digital marketing activities and electronic communications between company personnel and its customers and suppliers. if the company does not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain an appropriate technology infrastructure, the company business or financial results could be negatively impacted. in addition, security breaches or system failures of this infrastructure can create system disruptions, shutdowns or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. if the company is unable to prevent such breaches or failures, its operations could be disrupted, or it may suffer financial damage or loss because of lost or misappropriated information. in addition, the company has outsourced certain information technology support services and administrative functions, such as accounts payable processing and benefit plan administration, to third-party service providers, and may outsource other functions in the future to achieve cost savings and efficiencies. if the service providers that the company outsources these functions to do not perform effectively, the company may not be able to achieve the expected cost savings and may have to incur additional costs in connection with such failure to perform. depending on the function involved, such failures may also lead to business disruption, processing inefficiencies, the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach, the loss of sensitive data through security breach or otherwise. disruptions in the financial markets may adversely affect the company ability to access capital in the future. the company may need new or additional financing in the future to conduct its operations, expand its business or refinance existing indebtedness. disruptions in global financial markets and banking systems may make credit and capital markets more difficult for companies to access, even for some companies with established revolving or other credit facilities. any sustained weakness in the general economic conditions and/or financial markets in the u.s. or globally could adversely affect the company ability to raise capital on favorable terms or at all. from time to time, the company has relied, and also may rely in the future, on access to financial markets as a source of liquidity for working capital requirements, acquisitions, and general corporate purposes. the company access to funds under its revolving credit facility is dependent on the ability of the financial institutions that are parties to that facility to meet their funding commitments. the obligations of the financial institutions under the company revolving credit facility are several and not joint and, as a result, a funding default by one or more institutions does not need to be made up by the others. long-term volatility and disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation of financial institutions, reduced alternatives, or 14 table of contents failure of significant financial institutions could adversely affect the company access to the liquidity needed for its businesses in the longer term. such disruptions could require the company to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for its business needs can be arranged. disruptions in the capital and credit markets could result in higher interest rates on publicly issued debt securities and increased costs under credit facilities. continuation of these disruptions would increase the company interest expense and capital costs and could adversely affect its results of operations and financial position. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk are incorporated herein by reference to the information set forth in the company 2011 annual report to shareholders under the caption derivative financial instruments and market risk on page 31.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk are hereby incorporated by reference from the company 2002 annual report to shareholders under derivative financial instruments and market risk on page 17.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk are hereby incorporated by reference from the company 2003 annual report to shareholders under derivative financial instruments and market risk on pages 16 through 17.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk are hereby incorporated by reference to the company 2004 annual report to shareholders under derivative financial instruments and market risk on pages 18 and 19.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk are hereby incorporated by reference to the company 2005 annual report to shareholders under derivative financial instruments and market risk on pages 18 and 19.risk factors risk factors the company business, operations, and financial condition are subject to various risks and uncertainties. the risk factors described below should be carefully considered, together with the other information contained or incorporated by reference in the annual report on form 10-k and in the company other filings with the sec, in connection with evaluating the company, its business and the forward-looking statements contained in this report. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the company or that the company currently deems immaterial also may affect the company. the occurrence of any of these known or unknown risks could have a material adverse impact on the company business, financial condition, and results of operations. the company operates in the competitive food industry and relies on continued demand for the company products. the company faces competition across its product lines from other food companies with the primary methods and factors in competition being product quality, price, packaging, new product introductions, nutritional value, convenience, customer service, advertising, and promotion. in order to generate future revenues and profits, the company must continue to sell products that appeal to the company customers and consumers. specifically, there are a number of trends in consumer preferences that may impact the company and the food industry as a whole including convenience, consumer dietary trends, and obesity, health and nutritional concerns. continued success is dependent on product innovation, the ability to secure and maintain adequate retail shelf space, and effective trade merchandising, advertising, and marketing programs. some of the company competitors have substantial financial, marketing, and other resources, and competition with them in the company various markets and product lines could cause the company to reduce prices, increase marketing or other expenditures, or lose category share. category share and growth could be adversely impacted if the company is not successful in introducing new products. the company operations are subject to the general risks of the food industry. the food industry is subject to risks posed by food spoilage and contamination, product tampering, product recall, and consumer product liability claims. the company operations could be impacted by both genuine and fictitious claims regarding the company products. in the event of product contamination or tampering, the company may need to recall some of its products. a widespread product recall could result in significant loss due to the cost of conducting a product recall including destruction of inventory and the loss of sales resulting from the unavailability of product for a period of time. the company could also suffer losses from a significant product liability judgment against it. either a significant product recall, or a product liability judgment could also result in a loss of consumer confidence in the company food products and an actual or perceived loss of value of the company brands, materially impacting consumer demand. 5 table of contents impairment in the carrying value of acquired goodwill or other intangible assets could negatively affect the company consolidated operating results and net worth. a significant portion of the company assets is goodwill and other intangible assets, the majority of which are not amortized but are reviewed at least annually for impairment. if the carrying value of these assets exceeds the current fair value, the asset is considered impaired and is reduced to fair value resulting in a noncash charge to earnings. events and conditions that could result in impairment include increased competition or loss of market share, product innovation or obsolescence, or product claims that result in a significant loss of sales or profitability over the product life. at april 30, 2006, the carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets totaled approximately $1.4 billion, compared to total assets of approximately $2.6 billion and total shareholders equity of approximately $1.7 billion. the company may not achieve its targeted cost savings from the company manufacturing, distribution network, supply chain, and other cost reduction initiatives. the company success depends in part on its ability to be an efficient producer in a highly competitive industry. the company has invested extensively in initiatives to optimize production capacity, improve productivity and operating efficiencies, and improve the company overall cost base as well as service levels in support of its long-term strategy to own and market leading north american icon brands sold in the center of the store. ongoing operational issues or unanticipated costs are a possibility when carrying out major initiatives that may result in an adverse impact on future operations or the inability of the company to achieve its planned cost savings. the results of the company may be adversely impacted as a result of increases in the price of raw materials, including agricultural commodities and fuel. the company utilizes many different commodities and agricultural products in the manufacturing of its products including peanuts, corn sweeteners, edible oils, sugar, fruit, wheat, and cocoa. in addition, natural gas and fuel oil are necessary components of the manufacturing process, packaging, and distribution of the company products. these commodities and agricultural products are subject to price volatility caused by commodity market fluctuations, the quality and availability of supply, weather, currency fluctuations, speculative influences, trade agreements, political unrest, consumer demand, and changes in governmental agricultural programs. although the company utilizes forward contracts and commodity futures contracts to hedge commodity prices in some instances, commodity price increases ultimately result in corresponding increases in the company raw material and energy costs. the company may be limited in its ability to pass these cost increases on in the form of price increases or may incur a loss in sales volume to the extent pricing increases are taken. the company may be unable to maintain or improve its profit margins in the face of a consolidating retail environment. in addition, the loss of the company largest customer could negatively impact its sales and profits. sales to wal-mart stores, inc., and its subsidiaries amounted to approximately 18 percent of the company net sales in 2006. these sales are primarily included in the u.s. retail market segment. trade receivables at april 30, 2006, included amounts due from wal-mart stores, inc. and its subsidiaries of $22,087,000. during 2006, the company top ten customers, collectively, accounted for approximately 49 percent of consolidated net sales. the bankruptcy or loss of any large customer for an extended length of time could negatively impact the company operations. 6 table of contents changes in tax, environmental, or other regulations and laws or failure to comply with existing licensing, trade, and other regulations and laws could have a material adverse effect on the company consolidated financial condition. the company operations are subject to regulation by the u.s. departments of agriculture, commerce, and labor, the u.s. food and drug administration, the u.s. federal trade commission, as well as similar and other authorities of canada, various state, provincial and local governments, and voluntary regulatory and trade associations. the manufacturing, marketing, and distribution of food products is subject to governmental regulation that is increasingly extensive encompassing such matters as ingredients, advertising, relations with distributors and retailers, health, safety, and the environment. additionally, the company is routinely subject to new or modified tax and securities regulations, other laws and regulation, and accounting and reporting standards. the company failure or inability to comply with these requirements could subject the company to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, recalls or seizures, as well as potential criminal sanctions. the results of the company may be adversely impacted as a result of changes in defined benefit pension and other postretirement plan factors or regulations. the company has defined benefit pension plans covering substantially all of its u.s. and canadian employees. in addition to the defined benefit pension plans, the company sponsors several unfunded, defined postretirement plans. the company recorded obligations, and expense associated with these plans is recorded in the company financial statements based on assumptions related to inflation, investment returns, mortality, employee turnover, rate of compensation increases, medical costs, and discount rates. changes in any of these assumptions, as well as changes in regulations governing these plans, can cause volatility in recorded assets, liabilities, expense, and future funding requirements. the company operations are subject to the general risks associated with acquisitions. the company stated long-term strategy is to own and market leading north american icon brands sold in the center of the store. the company has historically made strategic acquisitions of brands and businesses and will continue to do so in the future in support of this strategy. the success of past and future acquisitions is dependent on the company ability to successfully integrate acquired and existing operations. if the company is unable to integrate acquisitions successfully, its financial results could suffer. additional potential risks associated with acquisitions are the diversion of management attention from other business concerns, additional debt leverage, the loss of key employees and customers of the acquired business, the assumption of unknown liabilities, disputes with sellers, and the inherent risk associated with the company entering a line of business in which it has no prior experience. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk are incorporated herein by reference to the information set forth in the company 2006 annual report to shareholders under the caption derivative financial instruments and market risk on pages 18 and 19.risk factors risk factors the company business, operations, and financial condition are subject to various risks and uncertainties. the risk factors described below should be carefully considered, together with the other information contained or incorporated by reference in the annual report on form 10-k and in the company other filings with the sec, in connection with evaluating the company, its business and the forward-looking statements contained in this report. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the company or that the company currently deems immaterial also may affect the company. the occurrence of any of these known or unknown risks could have a material adverse impact on the company business, financial condition, and results of operations. the company operates in the competitive food industry and relies on continued demand for the company products. the company faces competition across its product lines from other food companies with the primary methods and factors in competition being product quality, price, packaging, new product introductions, nutritional value, convenience, customer service, advertising, and promotion. in order to generate future revenues and profits, the company must continue to sell products that appeal to the company customers and consumers. specifically, there are a number of trends in consumer preferences that may impact the company and the food industry as a whole including convenience, consumer dietary trends, and obesity, health and nutritional concerns. continued success is dependent on product innovation, the ability to secure and maintain adequate retail shelf space, and effective trade merchandising, advertising, and marketing programs. some of the company competitors have substantial financial, marketing, and other resources, and competition with them in the company various markets and product lines could cause the company to reduce prices, increase marketing or other expenditures, or lose category share. category share and growth could be adversely impacted if the company is not successful in introducing new products. the company operations are subject to the general risks of the food industry. the food industry is subject to risks posed by food spoilage and contamination, product tampering, product recall, and consumer product liability claims. the company operations could be impacted by both genuine and fictitious claims regarding the company and competitors products. in the event of product contamination or tampering, the company may need to recall some of its products. a widespread product recall could result in significant loss due to the cost of conducting a product recall including destruction of inventory and the loss of sales resulting from 5 table of contents the unavailability of product for a period of time. the company could also suffer losses from a significant product liability judgment against it. either a significant product recall or a product liability judgment, involving either the company or its competitors, could also result in a loss of consumer confidence in the company food products or the food category, and an actual or perceived loss of value of the company brands, materially impacting consumer demand. certain of the company products are sourced from a single manufacturing site. the company has consolidated its production capacity for certain products into a single manufacturing site. it is possible the company could experience a production disruption at these or any of its manufacturing sites resulting in a reduction or elimination of the availability of some of the company products. should the company not be able to obtain alternate production capability in a timely manner, a negative impact on the company operations could result. impairment in the carrying value of acquired goodwill or other intangible assets could negatively affect the company consolidated operating results and net worth. a significant portion of the company assets is goodwill and other intangible assets, the majority of which are not amortized but are reviewed at least annually for impairment. if the carrying value of these assets exceeds the current fair value, the asset is considered impaired and is reduced to fair value resulting in a noncash charge to earnings. events and conditions that could result in impairment include increased competition or loss of market share, product innovation or obsolescence, or product claims that result in a significant loss of sales or profitability over the product life. at april 30, 2007, the carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets totaled approximately $1.5 billion, compared to total assets of approximately $2.7 billion and total shareholders equity of approximately $1.8 billion. the results of the company may be adversely impacted as a result of limited availability and increases in the price of raw materials, including agricultural commodities and fuel. the company utilizes many different commodities and agricultural products in the manufacturing of its products including peanuts, corn sweeteners, edible oils, sugar, fruit, wheat, and cocoa. in addition, natural gas and fuel oil are necessary components of the manufacturing process, packaging, and distribution of the company products. these commodities and agricultural products are subject to price volatility caused by commodity market fluctuations, the quality and availability of supply, weather, currency fluctuations, speculative influences, trade agreements, political unrest, consumer demand, and changes in governmental agricultural programs. although the company utilizes forward contracts and commodity futures contracts to hedge commodity prices in some instances, commodity price increases ultimately result in corresponding increases in the company raw material and energy costs. the company may be limited in its ability to pass these cost increases on in the form of price increases or may incur a loss in sales volume to the extent pricing increases are taken. the results of the company may be adversely impacted by the growth in alternative energy markets. the company competes for certain raw materials, notably corn and soy-based agricultural products, with the emerging bio-fuels industry. as this industry grows, the supply of these particular raw materials may be limited. additionally, farm acreage currently devoted to other agricultural products utilized by the company, may be converted to corn or soy resulting in higher cost for other agricultural products utilized by the company. 6 table of contents the company may be unable to maintain or improve its profit margins in the face of a consolidating retail environment. in addition, the loss of the company largest customer could negatively impact its sales and profits. sales to wal-mart stores, inc., and its subsidiaries amounted to approximately 20 percent of the company net sales in 2007. these sales are primarily included in the u.s. retail market segment. trade receivables at april 30, 2007, included amounts due from wal-mart stores, inc. and its subsidiaries of $28,274,000. during 2007, the company top 10 customers, collectively, accounted for approximately 53 percent of consolidated net sales. the bankruptcy or loss of any large customer for an extended length of time could negatively impact the company operations. changes in tax, environmental, or other regulations and laws or failure to comply with existing licensing, trade, and other regulations and laws could have a material adverse effect on the company consolidated financial condition. the company operations are subject to regulation by the u.s. departments of agriculture, commerce, and labor, the u.s. food and drug administration ( fda ), the u.s. federal trade commission, as well as similar and other authorities of canada, various state, provincial and local governments, and voluntary regulatory and trade associations. the manufacturing, marketing, and distribution of food products is subject to governmental regulation that is increasingly extensive, encompassing such matters as ingredients, advertising, relations with distributors and retailers, health, safety, and the environment. as a result of recent contamination issues associated with a competitor peanut butter product, the fda has announced increased frequency of inspections at plants that produce peanut butter. additionally, the company is routinely subject to new or modified tax and securities regulations, other laws and regulation, and accounting and reporting standards. the company failure or inability to comply with these requirements could subject the company to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, recalls or seizures, as well as potential criminal sanctions. the results of the company may be adversely impacted as a result of changes in defined benefit pension and other postretirement plan factors or regulations. the company has defined benefit pension plans covering substantially all of its u.s. and canadian employees. in addition to the defined benefit pension plans, the company sponsors several unfunded, defined postretirement plans. the company recorded obligations, and expense associated with these plans are recorded in the company financial statements based on assumptions related to inflation, investment returns, mortality, employee turnover, rate of compensation increases, medical costs, and discount rates. changes in any of these assumptions, as well as changes in regulations governing these plans, can cause volatility in recorded assets, liabilities, expense, and future funding requirements. the company operations are subject to the general risks associated with acquisitions. the company stated long-term strategy is to own and market leading north american brands sold in the center of the store. the company has historically made strategic acquisitions of brands and businesses and will continue to do so in the future in support of this strategy. the success of past and future acquisitions is dependent on the company ability to successfully integrate acquired and existing operations. if the company is unable to integrate acquisitions successfully, its financial results could suffer. additional potential risks associated with acquisitions are the diversion of management attention from other business concerns, additional debt leverage, the loss of key employees and customers of the acquired business, the assumption of unknown liabilities, disputes with sellers, and the inherent risk associated with the company entering a line of business in which it has no prior experience. 7 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk are incorporated herein by reference to the information set forth in the company 2007 annual report to shareholders under the caption derivative financial instruments and market risk on page 23.risk factors risk factors the company business, operations, and financial condition are subject to various risks and uncertainties. the risk factors described below should be carefully considered, together with the other information contained or incorporated by reference in the annual report on form 10-k and in the company other filings with the sec, in connection with evaluating the company, its business and the forward-looking statements contained in this report. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the company or that the company currently deems immaterial also may affect the company. the occurrence of any of these known or unknown risks could have a material adverse impact on the company business, financial condition, and results of operations. the company operates in the competitive food industry and relies on continued demand for the company products. the company faces competition across its product lines from other food companies with the primary methods and factors in competition being product quality, price, packaging, new product introductions, nutritional value, convenience, customer service, advertising, and promotion. in order to generate future revenues and profits, the company must continue to sell products that appeal to the company customers and consumers. specifically, there are a number of trends in consumer preferences that may impact the company and the food industry as a whole including convenience, consumer dietary trends, and obesity, health and nutritional concerns. continued success is dependent on product innovation, the ability to secure and maintain adequate retail shelf space, and effective trade merchandising, advertising, and marketing programs. some of the company competitors have substantial financial, marketing, and other resources, and competition with them in the company various markets and product lines could cause the company to reduce prices, increase marketing or other expenditures, or lose category share. category share and growth could be adversely impacted if the company is not successful in introducing new products. the company operations are subject to the general risks of the food industry. the food industry is subject to risks posed by food spoilage and contamination, product tampering, product recall, and consumer product liability claims. the company operations could be impacted by both genuine and fictitious claims regarding the company and competitors 5 table of contents products. in the event of product contamination or tampering, the company may need to recall some of its products. a widespread product recall could result in significant loss due to the cost of conducting a product recall, including destruction of inventory and the loss of sales resulting from the unavailability of product for a period of time. the company could also suffer losses from a significant product liability judgment against it. either a significant product recall or a product liability judgment, involving either the company or its competitors, could also result in a loss of consumer confidence in the company food products or the food category, and an actual or perceived loss of value of the company brands, materially impacting consumer demand. certain of the company products are sourced from single manufacturing sites. the company has consolidated its production capacity for certain products into single manufacturing sites. it is possible the company could experience a production disruption at these or any of its manufacturing sites resulting in a reduction or elimination of the availability of some of the company products. should the company not be able to obtain alternate production capability in a timely manner, a negative impact on the company operations could result. impairment in the carrying value of acquired goodwill or other intangible assets could negatively affect the company consolidated operating results and net worth. a significant portion of the company assets is goodwill and other intangible assets, the majority of which are not amortized but are reviewed at least annually for impairment. if the carrying value of these assets exceeds the current fair value, the asset is considered impaired and is reduced to fair value resulting in a noncash charge to earnings. events and conditions that could result in impairment include increased competition or loss of market share, product innovation or obsolescence, or product claims that result in a significant loss of sales or profitability over the product life. at april 30, 2008, the carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets totaled approximately $1.7 billion, compared to total assets of approximately $3.1 billion and total shareholders equity of approximately $1.8 billion. the results of the company may be adversely impacted as a result of limited availability and increases in the price of raw materials, including agricultural commodities and fuel. the company utilizes many different commodities and agricultural products in the manufacturing of its products including peanuts, corn sweeteners, edible oils, sugar, fruit, wheat, milk, and cocoa. in addition, natural gas and fuel oil are necessary components of the manufacturing process, packaging, and distribution of the company products. these commodities and agricultural products are subject to price volatility caused by commodity market fluctuations, the quality and availability of supply, weather, currency fluctuations, speculative influences, trade agreements, political unrest, consumer demand, and changes in governmental agricultural programs. although the company utilizes forward contracts and commodity futures contracts to manage commodity prices in some instances, commodity price increases ultimately result in corresponding increases in the company raw material and energy costs. the company may be limited in its ability to pass these cost increases on in the form of price increases or may incur a loss in sales volume to the extent pricing increases are taken. the results of the company may be adversely impacted by the growth in alternative energy markets. the company competes for certain raw materials, notably corn and soy-based agricultural products, with the emerging bio-fuels industry. as this industry grows, the supply of these particular raw materials may be limited. additionally, farm acreage currently devoted to other agricultural products utilized by the company, may be converted to corn or soy resulting in higher cost for other agricultural products utilized by the company. 6 table of contents the company may be unable to maintain or improve its profit margins in the face of a consolidating retail environment. in addition, the loss of the company largest customer could negatively impact its sales and profits. sales to wal-mart stores, inc. and its subsidiaries amounted to approximately 20 percent of the company net sales in 2008. these sales are primarily included in the u.s. retail market segment. trade receivables at april 30, 2008, included amounts due from wal-mart stores, inc. and its subsidiaries of $34,210,000. during 2008, the company top 10 customers, collectively, accounted for approximately 53 percent of consolidated net sales. the bankruptcy or loss of any large customer for an extended length of time could negatively impact the company operations. changes in tax, environmental, or other regulations and laws or failure to comply with existing licensing, trade, and other regulations and laws could have a material adverse effect on the company consolidated financial condition. the company operations are subject to regulation by the u.s. departments of agriculture, commerce, and labor, the u.s. food and drug administration, the u.s. federal trade commission, as well as similar and other authorities of canada, various state, provincial and local governments, and voluntary regulatory and trade associations. the manufacturing, marketing, and distribution of food products is subject to governmental regulation that is increasingly extensive, encompassing such matters as ingredients, advertising, relations with distributors and retailers, health, safety, and the environment. additionally, the company is routinely subject to new or modified tax and securities regulations, other laws and regulation, and accounting and reporting standards. the company failure or inability to comply with these requirements could subject the company to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, recalls or seizures, as well as potential criminal sanctions. the results of the company may be adversely impacted as a result of changes in defined benefit pension and other postretirement plan factors or regulations. the company has defined benefit pension plans covering certain of its u.s. and canadian employees. in addition to the defined benefit pension plans, the company sponsors several unfunded, defined postretirement plans. the company obligations and expense associated with these plans are recorded in the company financial statements based on assumptions related to inflation, investment returns, mortality, employee turnover, rate of compensation increases, medical costs, and discount rates. changes in any of these assumptions, as well as changes in regulations governing these plans, can cause volatility in recorded assets, liabilities, expense, and future funding requirements. the company operations are subject to the general risks associated with acquisitions. the company stated long-term strategy is to own and market leading north american food brands sold in the center of the store. the company has historically made strategic acquisitions of brands and businesses and will continue to do so in the future in support of this strategy. the success of past and future acquisitions is dependent on the company ability to successfully integrate acquired and existing operations. if the company is unable to integrate acquisitions successfully, its financial results could suffer. additional potential risks associated with acquisitions are the diversion of management attention from other business concerns, additional debt leverage, the loss of key employees and customers of the acquired business, the assumption of unknown liabilities, disputes with sellers, and the inherent risk associated with the company entering a line of business in which it has no prior experience. 7 table of contents the folgers combination will expose the company to risks inherent in the retail coffee business. on june 4, 2008, the company entered into various agreements with the procter gamble company providing for the business combination of the folgers coffee business ( folgers ) and the company in an all-stock reverse morris trust transaction. upon completion of the transactions, folgers will represent the company largest single brand and the company will be subject to a variety of risks associated with the coffee business. these risks include changes in consumer preferences, volatility in the prices of raw materials, the business reliance on a small number of key retail customers, consumer perceptions of the folgers brand, competition in the retail coffee market, and other risks. the integration of folgers may not be successful or anticipated benefits from the transaction may not be realized. in addition to risks associated with the coffee business, the company will also face the challenge of successfully integrating folgers operations into its own. the integration process will require the company to significantly expand the scope of its operations and financial systems. the company management will be required to devote a significant amount of time and attention to the process of integrating the operations of the company business and the coffee business. there is a significant degree of difficulty and management involvement inherent in that process. the company may not be able to successfully or cost-effectively integrate the coffee business. the process of integrating the coffee business into the company operations may cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of the company business. if the company management is not able to effectively manage the integration process, or if any significant business activities are interrupted as a result of the integration process, the company business could suffer and its results of operations and financial condition may be harmed. even if the company is able to successfully combine the two business operations, it may not be possible to realize the full benefits of the increased sales volume and other benefits that are currently expected to result from the transactions, or realize these benefits within the time frame that is currently expected. for example, the elimination of duplicative costs may not be possible or may take longer than anticipated, or the benefits from the folgers transaction may be offset by costs incurred or delays in integrating the companies. in addition, the benefits of the folgers transaction may be offset by operating losses relating to changes in commodity or energy prices, or in increased competition, or by other risks and uncertainties. if the company fails to realize the benefits it anticipates from the folgers transaction, the company results of operations may be adversely affected. 8 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk are incorporated herein by reference to the information set forth in the company 2008 annual report to shareholders under the caption derivative financial instruments and market risk on pages 24 and 25.risk factors. the company business, operations, and financial condition are subject to various risks and uncertainties. the risk factors described below should be carefully considered, together with the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this report and in the company other filings with 6 the sec, in connection with evaluating the company, its business, and the forward-looking statements contained in this report. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the company or that the company currently deems immaterial also may affect the company. the occurrence of any of these known or unknown risks could have a material adverse impact on the company business, financial condition, and results of operations. the company operates in the competitive food industry and continued demand for its products may be affected by changes in consumer preferences. the company faces competition across its product lines from other food companies with the primary methods and factors in competition being product quality, price, packaging, product innovation, nutritional value, convenience, customer service, advertising, and promotion. continued success is dependent on product innovation, the ability to secure and maintain adequate retail shelf space, and effective trade merchandising, advertising, and marketing programs. some of the company competitors have substantial financial, marketing, and other resources, and competition with them in the company various markets and product lines could cause the company to reduce prices, increase marketing or other expenditures, or lose category share. category share and growth could be adversely impacted if the company is not successful in introducing new products. in order to generate future revenues and profits, the company must continue to sell products that appeal to its customers and consumers. specifically, there are a number of trends in consumer preferences that may impact the company and the food industry as a whole including convenience, taste, consumer dietary trends, and obesity, health, and nutritional concerns. in particular, consumers, public health officials, and government officials are becoming increasingly concerned about the public health consequences associated with weight management, particularly among young people. prolonged negative perceptions concerning the health implications of certain food products could influence consumer preferences and acceptance of some of the company products and marketing programs. although the company strives to respond to consumer preferences and social expectations, it may not be successful in these efforts. increasing public concern regarding health issues and failure to satisfy consumer preferences could decrease demand for certain of the company products and adversely affect the company profitability. the success of the company business depends substantially on consumer perceptions of its brands. the company believes that maintaining and continually enhancing the value of its brands is critical to the success of its business. brand value is based in large part on consumer perceptions. success in promoting and enhancing brand value depends in large part on the company ability to provide high-quality products. brand value could diminish significantly as a result of a number of factors, such as if the company fails to preserve the quality of its products, if the company is perceived to act in an irresponsible manner, if the company or its brands otherwise receive negative publicity, if the brands fail to deliver a consistently positive consumer experience, or if the products become unavailable to consumers. the growing use of social and digital media by consumers increases the speed and extent that information and opinions can be shared. if the company brand values are diminished, the company revenues and operating results could be materially adversely affected. in addition, anything that harms the pillsbury , carnation , borden , or dunkin donuts brands could adversely affect the success of the company exclusive licensing agreements with the owners of these brands. the company operations are subject to the general risks of the food industry. the food industry is subject to risks posed by food spoilage and contamination, product tampering, product recall, and consumer product liability claims. the company operations could be impacted by both genuine and fictitious claims regarding the company and its competitors 7 products. in the event of product contamination or tampering, the company may need to recall some of its products. a widespread product recall could result in significant loss due to the cost of conducting a product recall, including destruction of inventory and the loss of sales resulting from the unavailability of product for a period of time. the company could also suffer losses from a significant product liability judgment against it. a significant product recall or a product liability judgment, involving either the company or its competitors, could also result in a loss of consumer confidence in the company food products or the food category, and an actual or perceived loss of value of the company brands, materially impacting consumer demand. the company could be subject to adverse publicity or claims from consumers. certain of the company products contain caffeine and other ingredients, the health effects of which are the subject of increasing public scrutiny, including the suggestion that consumption may have adverse health effects. an unfavorable report on the health effects of caffeine or other ingredients present in the company products, product recalls, or negative publicity or litigation arising from other health risks could significantly reduce the demand for the company products. the company may also be subject to complaints from or litigation by consumers who allege food and beverage-related illness, or other quality, health, or operational concerns. adverse publicity resulting from such allegations could materially adversely affect the company, regardless of whether such allegations are true or whether the company is ultimately held liable. a lawsuit or claim could result in an adverse decision against the company, which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, and results of operations. the company may be unable to grow market share of its products. the company operates in the competitive food industry whose growth potential is generally correlated to population growth. the company success depends in part on its ability to grow its brands faster than the population in general. the company considers its ability to build and sustain the equity of its brands critical to its market share growth. if the company does not succeed in these efforts, its market share growth may slow, which could have a material impact on its results of operations. the company proprietary brands, packaging designs, and manufacturing methods are essential to the value of its business and the inability to protect these could harm the value of its brands and adversely affect the company sales and profitability. the success of the company business depends significantly on its brands, know-how, and other intellectual property. the company relies on a combination of trademarks, service marks, trade secrets, patents, copyrights, and similar rights to protect its intellectual property. the success of the company growth strategy depends on its continued ability to use its existing trademarks and service marks in order to maintain and increase brand awareness and further develop its brand. if the company efforts to protect its intellectual property are not adequate, or if any third party misappropriates or infringes on its intellectual property, the value of the company brand may be harmed, which could have a material adverse effect on its business. from time to time, the company is engaged in litigation to protect its intellectual property, which could result in substantial costs to the company as well as diversion of management attention. in particular, the company considers its proprietary coffee roasting methods essential to the consistent flavor and richness of its coffee products and, therefore, essential to its coffee brands. because many of the roasting methods used by the company are not protected by patents, it may be difficult for the company to prevent competitors from copying its roasting methods if such methods become known. the company also believes that its packaging innovations, such as brick packaging technology and its aromaseal tm canisters, are important to the coffee business marketing and operational efforts. if the company competitors copy its roasting or packaging methods or develop more advanced roasting or packaging methods, the value of the company coffee brands may be diminished, and the company could lose customers to its competitors. 8 the company uses a single national broker to represent a significant portion of the company branded products to the retail grocery trade and any failure by the broker to effectively represent the company could adversely affect the company business. the company uses a single national broker to represent a significant portion of branded products to the retail grocery trade. the company business would suffer substantial disruption if this broker were to default in the performance of its obligations to perform brokerage services or if this broker fails to effectively represent the company to the retail grocery trade, which could adversely affect the company business. changes in the company relationships with significant customers, including the loss of the company largest customer, or the consolidation of retail customers could adversely affect the company. sales to wal-mart stores, inc. and its subsidiaries amounted to approximately 26 percent of the company net sales in 2012. these sales are primarily included in the two u.s. retail market segments. trade receivables at april 30, 2012, included amounts due from wal-mart stores, inc. and its subsidiaries of approximately $84.1 million. during 2012, the company top 10 customers, collectively, accounted for approximately 60 percent of consolidated net sales. the company expects that a significant portion of its revenues will continue to be derived from a small number of customers. in particular, retail customers, such as supermarkets, warehouse clubs, and food distributors, continue to consolidate, resulting in fewer customers on which the company can rely for business. consolidation also produces large, more sophisticated retail customers that can resist price increases and demand lower pricing, increased promotional programs, or specifically tailored products. the company customers are generally not contractually obligated to purchase from the company. these customers make purchase decisions based on a combination of price, product quality, consumer demand, customer service performance, their desired inventory levels, and other factors. changes in customers strategies, including a reduction in the number of brands they carry or a shift of shelf space to private label products, may adversely affect sales. customers also may respond to price increases by reducing distribution, resulting in reduced sales of the company products. additionally, the company customers may face financial or other difficulties that may impact their operations and their purchases from the company, which could adversely affect results of operations. if sales of products to one or more major customers are reduced, this reduction could have a material adverse effect on the company business, financial condition, and results of operations. loss or interruption of supply from single-source suppliers of raw materials and finished goods could have a disruptive effect on the company business and adversely affect its results of operations. the company has elected to source certain raw materials, such as packaging for its most popular folgers coffee products, as well as its jif peanut butter and crisco oil products, and finished goods, such as k-cups , from single sources of supply. while the company believes that, except as set forth below, alternative sources of these raw materials and finished goods could be obtained on commercially reasonable terms, loss or an extended interruption in supplies from a single-source supplier would result in additional costs, could have a disruptive short-term effect on the company business, and could adversely affect its results of operations. green mountain is the company single-source supplier for k-cups which are used in green mountain proprietary keurig &reg; k-cup brewing system. there are a limited number of manufacturers other than green mountain that are making cups that will work in such proprietary brewing system. if green mountain is unable to supply k-cups to the company for any reason, it could be difficult for the company to find an alternative supplier for such goods on commercially reasonable terms, which could have a material adverse effect on the company results of operations. 9 the results of the company may be adversely impacted as a result of increased cost, limited availability, and/or insufficient quality of raw materials, including commodities and agricultural products. the company and its business partners purchase and use large quantities of many different commodities and agricultural products in the manufacturing of the company products including green coffee, peanuts, sweeteners, edible oils, fruit, wheat, milk, and cocoa. in addition, the company and its business partners utilize significant quantities of plastic, glass, and cardboard to package the company products and natural gas and fuel oil to manufacture, package, and distribute the company products. the prices of these commodities, agricultural products, and other materials are subject to volatility and can fluctuate due to conditions that are difficult to predict, including global supply and demand, commodity market fluctuations, crop sizes and yield fluctuations, weather, natural disasters, currency fluctuations, speculative influences, trade agreements, political unrest, consumer demand, and changes in governmental agricultural programs. for example, during 2012, costs to acquire peanuts increased, in part, due to adverse weather conditions. although the company utilizes forward contracts and commodity futures and option contracts to manage commodity price volatility in some instances, commodity price increases ultimately result in corresponding increases in the company raw material and energy costs. in addition, the price of green coffee has been subject to significant volatility over the last two years. in early may 2011, green coffee commodity prices reached a 34-year high at a level approximately 50 percent higher than they were eight months earlier and over 125 percent higher than they were a year earlier. the company expects the green coffee commodity market to continue to be challenging. due to the significance of green coffee to the company's coffee business, combined with the company's ability to only partially mitigate future price risk through purchasing practices and hedging activities, significant increases or decreases in the cost of green coffee could have an adverse impact on the company's profitability. in addition, if the company is not able to purchase sufficient quantities of green coffee due to any of the above factors or to a worldwide or regional shortage, the company may not be able to fulfill the demand for its coffee, which could have a material adverse effect on the company business, financial condition, and results of operations. the company may be limited in its ability to pass cost increases on to its customers in the form of price increases or may realize a decrease in sales volume to the extent price increases are implemented. the company may not be able to pass some or all of any increases in the price of raw materials, energy, and other input costs to its customers by raising prices. to the extent competitors do not also increase their prices, customers and consumers may choose to purchase competing products or may shift purchases to private label or other lower-priced offerings which may adversely affect the company results of operations. consumers may be less willing or able to pay a price differential for the company branded products, and may increasingly purchase lower-priced offerings and may forego some purchases altogether, especially during economic downturns. retailers may also increase levels of promotional activity for lower-priced offerings as they seek to maintain sales volumes during times of economic uncertainty. accordingly, sales volumes of the company branded products could be reduced or lead to a shift in sales mix toward its lower-margin offerings. as a result, decreased demand for the company products may adversely affect its results of operations. the company's efforts to manage commodity and other price volatility through derivative instruments could adversely affect its results of operations and financial condition. 10 the company uses derivative instruments, including commodity futures and options, to reduce the price volatility associated with anticipated commodity purchases. the extent of the company derivative position at any given time depends on the company assessment of the markets for these commodities. if the company fails to take a derivative position and costs subsequently increase, or if it institutes a position and costs subsequently decrease, the company costs may be greater than anticipated or higher than its competitors costs and financial results could be adversely affected. in addition, the company liquidity may be adversely impacted by the cash margin requirements of the commodities exchanges or the failure of a counterparty to perform in accordance with a contract. the results of the company may be adversely impacted by growth in alternative energy markets. the company competes for certain raw materials, notably corn and soy-based agricultural products, with the emerging bio-fuels industry. growth in the bio-fuels industry, which is typically linked to increases in gasoline and diesel prices, may limit the supply of certain raw materials available to the company. additionally, farm acreage currently devoted to other agricultural products utilized by the company may be converted to corn or soy resulting in higher cost for other agricultural products utilized by the company. certain of the company products are sourced from single manufacturing sites. the company has consolidated its production capacity for certain products, including substantially all the company coffee production, into single manufacturing sites. in addition, the company is proceeding with plans to further consolidate its fruit spreads, syrups, and toppings production as part of its current restructuring project. the company could experience a production disruption at these or any of its manufacturing sites resulting in a reduction or elimination of the availability of some of the company products. if the company is not able to obtain alternate production capability in a timely manner, the company business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. a significant interruption in the operation of any of the company supply chain or distribution capabilities could have an adverse effect on the company business, financial condition, and results of operations. the ability of the company and its third-party suppliers and service providers, distributors, and contract manufacturers to manufacture, distribute, and sell products is critical to the company success. a significant interruption in the operation of any of the company manufacturing or distribution capabilities, or the manufacturing or distribution capabilities of the company suppliers, distributors, or contract manufacturers, or a service failure by a third-party service provider, whether as a result of adverse weather conditions or a natural disaster, terrorism, pandemic illness, or other causes, could significantly impair the company ability to operate its business. notably, as a result of the company current restructuring project, substantially all of the company coffee production takes place in new orleans, louisiana, which is subject to risks associated with hurricane and other weather-related events. following hurricane katrina in august 2005, production at the new orleans, louisiana, facility was interrupted for approximately two months, resulting in a significant decline in coffee revenues for several months. failure to take adequate steps to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, could adversely affect the company business, financial condition, and results of operations. the company business could be harmed by strikes or work stoppages. as of april 30, 2012, approximately 28 percent of the company employees, located at 11 facilities, are covered by collective bargaining agreements. these contracts vary in term depending on location. the company cannot assure that it will be able to renew these collective 11 bargaining agreements on the same or more favorable terms as the current agreements, or at all, without production interruptions caused by labor stoppages. if a strike or work stoppage were to occur in connection with negotiations of new collective bargaining agreements or as a result of disputes under collective bargaining agreements with labor unions, the company business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. increases in logistics and other transportation-related costs could adversely impact the company results of operations. the company ability to competitively serve customers depends on the availability of reliable transportation . logistics and other transportation-related costs have a significant impact on the company earnings and results of operations. the company uses multiple forms of transportation to bring the company products to market. they include ships, trucks, intermodals, and railcars. disruption to the timely supply of these services or increases in the cost of these services for any reason, including availability or cost of fuel, regulations affecting the industry, labor shortages in the transportation industry, service failures by third-party service providers, accidents, or natural disasters (which may impact the transportation infrastructure or demand for transportation services), could have an adverse effect on the company ability to serve its customers, and could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, and results of operations. the company may not achieve cost savings anticipated as a result of its restructuring initiatives. the company has periodically commenced restructuring initiatives with the expectation of realizing future benefits including operational efficiencies or cost savings. the future benefits the company expects from restructuring initiatives may not be realized during the time period expected, or at all, due to unforeseen or changing business conditions. in addition, costs incurred to realize the future benefits may be higher than anticipated and the company results of operations could be adversely affected. the company operations are subject to the general risks associated with acquisitions. the company stated long-term strategy is to own and market leading north american food brands sold in the center of the store while maintaining a global perspective. the company has historically made strategic acquisitions of brands and businesses and intends to do so in the future in support of this strategy. if the company is unable to complete acquisitions or to successfully integrate and develop acquired businesses, including the acquired sara lee foodservice business and rowland coffee, the company could fail to achieve anticipated synergies and cost savings, including the expected increases in revenues and operating results, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the company financial results. additional potential risks associated with acquisitions are the diversion of management attention from other business concerns, additional debt leverage, the loss of key employees and customers of the acquired business, the assumption of unknown liabilities, disputes with sellers, and the inherent risk associated with the company entering a line of business in which it has no or limited prior experience. a material impairment in the carrying value of acquired goodwill or other intangible assets could negatively affect the company consolidated operating results and net worth. a significant portion of the company assets is goodwill and other intangible assets, the majority of which are not amortized but are reviewed at least annually for impairment. at april 30, 2012, the carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets totaled approximately $6.2 billion, compared to total assets of approximately $9.1 billion and total shareholders equity of approximately $5.2 billion. if the carrying value of these assets exceeds the current estimated fair value, the asset is considered impaired and this could result in a noncash charge to earnings. any such impairment charge would reduce earnings and could be material. events and conditions that could result in impairment include a sustained drop in the market price of the company common shares, increased competition or loss of market share, obsolescence, or product claims that result in a significant loss of sales or profitability over the product life. 12 the results of the company may be adversely impacted as a result of changes in defined benefit pension and other postretirement plan factors or regulations. the company has defined benefit pension plans covering certain of its u.s. and canadian employees. in addition to the defined benefit pension plans, the company sponsors several unfunded, defined postretirement plans. the company obligations and expense associated with these plans are recorded in the company financial statements based on assumptions related to inflation, investment returns, mortality, employee turnover, rate of compensation increases, medical costs, and discount rates. changes in regulations governing these plans, changes in plan assumptions, and differences between assumed and actual investment returns and interest rates can cause volatility in recorded assets, liabilities, expenses, and future funding requirements. changes in tax, environmental, or other regulations and laws, or their application, or failure to comply with existing licensing, trade, and other regulations and laws could have a material adverse effect on the company financial condition. the company operations are subject to various regulations and laws administered by federal, state, and local government agencies in the u.s., as well as to regulations and laws administered by government agencies in canada and other countries in which the company has operations and the company products are sold. the manufacturing, marketing, packaging, labeling, and distribution of food products are each subject to governmental regulation that is increasingly extensive, encompassing such matters as ingredients, packaging, advertising, relations with distributors and retailers, health, safety, and the environment. additionally, the company is routinely subject to new or modified tax and securities regulations, other laws and regulations, and accounting and reporting standards. in the u.s., the company is required to comply with federal laws, such as the food, drug and cosmetic act, the occupational safety and health act, the clean air act, the clean water act, the resource conservation and recovery act, laws governing equal employment opportunity, and various other federal statutes and regulations. the company is also subject to various state and local statutes and regulations. for instance, the california safe drinking water and toxic enforcement act of 1986 (commonly referred to as "proposition 65") requires that a specific warning appear on any product sold in the state of california that contains a substance listed by that state as having been found to cause cancer or birth defects. this law exposes all food and beverage producers to the possibility of having to provide warnings on their products. the detection of even a trace amount of a listed substance can subject an affected product to the requirement of a warning label. products containing listed substances that occur naturally or that are contributed to such products solely by a municipal water supply are generally exempt from the warning requirement. if the company is required to add warning labels to any of its products or place warnings in certain locations where its products are sold as a result of proposition 65, sales of those products could suffer not only in those locations but elsewhere. complying with new regulations and laws, or changes to existing regulations and laws, or their application could increase the company's production costs or adversely affect the company's sales of certain products. in addition, the company failure or inability to comply with applicable regulations and laws could subject the company to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, recalls or seizures, as well as potential criminal sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on the company business and financial condition. 13 the company operations in certain developing markets expose it to regulatory risks. in many countries outside of the u.s., particularly in those with developing economies, it may be common for others to engage in business practices prohibited by laws and regulations applicable to the company, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act or similar local anti-bribery or anti-corruption laws. these laws generally prohibit companies and their employees, contractors, or agents from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. failure to comply with these laws could subject the company to civil and criminal penalties that could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. changes in climate or legal, regulatory, or market measures to address climate change may negatively affect the company business and operations. while scientific consensus on the existence, potential causes, or likely outcomes of global climate change has not yet been reached, researchers continue to aggressively explore this issue. however, there already exists significant political and scientific concern that emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases may alter the composition of the global atmosphere in ways that are affecting and are expected to continue affecting the global climate. the emission of such greenhouse gases may have an adverse impact on global temperatures, weather patterns, and the frequency and severity of extreme weather and natural disasters. in the event that climate change may have a negative effect on agricultural productivity, the company may be subject to decreased availability or less favorable pricing for certain commodities that are necessary for its products, such as green coffee, peanuts, sweeteners, edible oils, wheat, milk, cocoa, and various fruits and vegetables. the company may also be subjected to decreased availability or less favorable pricing for water as a result of such change, which could impact its manufacturing and distribution operations. in addition, natural disasters and extreme weather conditions may disrupt the productivity of facilities or the operation of the company supply chain. increasing concern over climate change also may result in more regulatory requirements to reduce or mitigate the effects of greenhouse gases. in the event that such regulations are enacted and are more rigorous than existing regulations, the company may experience significant increases in costs of operation and delivery. in particular, increased regulation of utility providers, fuel emissions, or suppliers could substantially increase the company operating, distribution, or supply chain costs. the company could also face increased costs related to defending and resolving legal claims and other litigation related to climate change. as a result, climate change could negatively affect the company results of operations, cash flows, or financial position. if the company information technology systems fail to perform adequately or the company is unable to protect such information technology systems against data corruption, cyber-based attacks, or network security breaches, the company operations could be disrupted. the company relies on information technology networks and systems, including the internet, to process, transmit, and store electronic information. in particular, the company depends on its information technology infrastructure to effectively manage its business data, supply chain, logistics, accounting, and other business processes and for digital marketing activities and electronic communications between company personnel and its customers and suppliers. if the company does not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain an appropriate technology infrastructure, the company business or financial results could be negatively impacted. in addition, security breaches or system failures of this infrastructure can create system disruptions, shutdowns, or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. if the company is unable to prevent such breaches or failures, its operations could be disrupted, or it may suffer financial damage or loss because of lost or misappropriated information. in addition, the company has outsourced certain information technology support services and administrative functions, such as accounts payable processing and benefit plan administration, to 14 third-party service providers, and may outsource other functions in the future to achieve cost savings and efficiencies. if the service providers to which the company outsources these functions do not perform effectively, the company may not be able to achieve the expected cost savings and may have to incur additional costs in connection with such failure to perform. depending on the function involved, such failures may also lead to business disruption, processing inefficiencies, the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach, the loss of sensitive data through security breach, or otherwise. disruptions in the financial markets may adversely affect the company ability to access capital in the future. the company may need new or additional financing in the future to conduct its operations, expand its business, or refinance existing indebtedness. disruptions in global financial markets and banking systems may make credit and capital markets more difficult for companies to access, even for some companies with established revolving or other credit facilities. any sustained weakness in the general economic conditions and/or financial markets in the u.s. or globally could adversely affect the company ability to raise capital on favorable terms or at all. from time to time, the company has relied, and also may rely in the future, on access to financial markets as a source of liquidity for working capital requirements, acquisitions, and general corporate purposes. the company access to funds under its revolving credit facility is dependent on the ability of the financial institutions that are parties to that facility to meet their funding commitments. the obligations of the financial institutions under the company revolving credit facility are several and not joint and, as a result, a funding default by one or more institutions does not need to be made up by the others. long-term volatility and disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation of financial institutions, reduced alternatives, or failure of significant financial institutions could adversely affect the company access to the liquidity needed for its businesses in the longer term. such disruptions could require the company to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for its business needs can be arranged. disruptions in the capital and credit markets could result in higher interest rates on publicly issued debt securities and increased costs under credit facilities. continuation of these disruptions would increase the company interest expense and capital costs and could adversely affect its results of operations and financial position. 15 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk are incorporated herein by reference to the information set forth in the company 2012 annual report to shareholders under the caption derivative financial instruments and market risk on pages 34 through 36.risk factors. our business, operations, and financial condition are subject to various risks and uncertainties. the risk factors described below should be carefully considered, together with the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this report and our other filings with the sec, in connection with evaluating the company, our business, and the forward-looking statements contained in this report. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may affect us. the occurrence of any of these known or unknown risks could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we may be unable to grow market share of our products. we operate in the competitive food industry whose growth potential is generally correlated to population growth. our success depends in part on our ability to grow our brands faster than the population in general. we consider our ability to build and sustain the equity of our brands critical to our market share growth. if we do not succeed in these efforts, our market share growth may slow, which could have a material impact on our results of operations. our proprietary brands, packaging designs, and manufacturing methods are essential to the value of our business and the inability to protect these could harm the value of our brands and adversely affect our sales and profitability. the success of our business depends significantly on our brands, know-how, and other intellectual property. we rely on a combination of trademarks, service marks, trade secrets, patents, copyrights, and similar rights to protect our intellectual property. the success of our growth strategy depends on our continued ability to use our existing trademarks and service marks in order to maintain and increase brand awareness and further develop our brand. if our efforts to 6 protect our intellectual property are not adequate, or if any third party misappropriates or infringes on our intellectual property, the value of our brand may be harmed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. from time to time, we are engaged in litigation to protect our intellectual property, which could result in substantial costs as well as diversion of management attention. in particular, we consider our proprietary coffee roasting methods essential to the consistent flavor and richness of our coffee products and, therefore, essential to our coffee brands. because many of the roasting methods we use are not protected by patents, it may be difficult for us to prevent competitors from copying our roasting methods if such methods become known. we also believe that our packaging innovations, such as brick packaging technology and our aromaseal tm canisters, are important to the coffee business marketing and operational efforts. if our competitors copy our roasting or packaging methods or develop more advanced roasting or packaging methods, the value of our coffee brands may be diminished, and we could lose customers to our competitors. we use a single national broker to represent a portion of our branded products to the retail grocery trade and any failure by the broker to effectively represent us could adversely affect our business. we use a single national broker to represent a portion of our branded products to the retail grocery trade. our business would suffer disruption if this broker were to default in the performance of its obligations to perform brokerage services or if this broker fails to effectively represent us to the retail grocery trade, which could adversely affect our business. loss or interruption of supply from single-source suppliers of raw materials and finished goods could have a disruptive effect on our business and adversely affect our results of operations. we have elected to source certain raw materials, such as packaging for our folgers coffee products, as well as our jif peanut butter and crisco oil products, and finished goods, such as k-cups , from single sources of supply. while we believe that, except as set forth below, alternative sources of these raw materials and finished goods could be obtained on commercially reasonable terms, loss or an extended interruption in supplies from a single-source supplier would result in additional costs, could have a disruptive short-term effect on our business, and could adversely affect our results of operations. green mountain is our single-source supplier for k-cups which are used in green mountain proprietary keurig &reg; k-cup brewing system. there are a limited number of manufacturers other than green mountain that are making cups that will work in such proprietary brewing system. if green mountain is unable to supply k-cups to us for any reason, it could be difficult to find an alternative supplier for such goods on commercially reasonable terms, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our results may be adversely impacted as a result of increased cost, limited availability, and/or insufficient quality of raw materials, including commodities and agricultural products. we and our business partners purchase and use large quantities of many different commodities and agricultural products in the manufacturing of our products, including green coffee, peanuts, sweeteners, edible oils, fruit, wheat, milk, and cocoa. in addition, we and our business partners utilize significant quantities of plastic, glass, and cardboard to package our products and natural gas and fuel oil to manufacture, package, and distribute our products. the prices of these commodities, agricultural products, and other materials are subject to volatility and can fluctuate due to conditions that are difficult to predict, including global supply and demand, commodity market fluctuations, crop sizes and yield fluctuations, weather, natural disasters, currency fluctuations, investor speculation, trade agreements, political unrest, consumer demand, and changes in governmental agricultural programs. for example, during 2012, costs to acquire peanuts increased, in part, due to adverse weather conditions. in addition, we compete for certain 7 raw materials, notably corn and soy-based agricultural products, with the biofuels industry. growth in the biofuels industry, which is typically linked to increases in gasoline and diesel prices, has increased the price of certain raw materials we purchase. additionally, farm acreage currently devoted to other agricultural products we purchase may be utilized for biofuels crops resulting in higher cost for the other agricultural products we utilize. although we use basis, futures, and options contracts to manage commodity price volatility in some instances, commodity price increases ultimately result in corresponding increases in our raw material and energy costs. we expect the green coffee commodity markets to continue to be challenging due to significant ongoing price volatility. due to the significance of green coffee to our coffee business, combined with our ability to only partially mitigate future price risk through purchasing practices and hedging activities, significant increases or decreases in the cost of green coffee could have an adverse impact on our profitability. in addition, if we are not able to purchase sufficient quantities of green coffee due to any of the above factors or to a worldwide or regional shortage, we may not be able to fulfill the demand for our coffee, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our efforts to manage commodity and other price volatility through derivative instruments could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we use derivative instruments, including commodity futures and options, to reduce the price volatility associated with anticipated commodity purchases. the extent of our derivative position at any given time depends on our assessment of the markets for these commodities. if we fail to take a derivative position and costs subsequently increase, or if we institute a position and costs subsequently decrease, our costs may be greater than anticipated or higher than our competitors costs and our financial results could be adversely affected. in addition, our liquidity may be adversely impacted by the cash margin requirements of the commodities exchanges or the failure of a counterparty to perform in accordance with a contract. we may be limited in our ability to pass cost increases on to our customers in the form of price increases or may realize a decrease in sales volume to the extent price increases are implemented. we may not be able to pass some or all of any increases in the price of raw materials, energy, and other input costs to our customers by raising prices. to the extent competitors do not also increase their prices, customers and consumers may choose to purchase competing products or may shift purchases to private label or other lower-priced offerings which may adversely affect our results of operations. consumers may be less willing or able to pay a price differential for our branded products, and may increasingly purchase lower-priced offerings and may forego some purchases altogether, especially during economic downturns. retailers may also increase levels of promotional activity for lower-priced offerings as they seek to maintain sales volumes during times of economic uncertainty. accordingly, sales volumes of our branded products could be reduced or lead to a shift in sales mix toward our lower-margin offerings. as a result, decreased demand for our products may adversely affect our results of operations. certain of our products are sourced from single manufacturing sites. we have consolidated our production capacity for certain products, including substantially all of our coffee production, into single manufacturing sites. in addition, we are close to completing our plan to further consolidate our fruit spreads, syrups, and toppings production as part of our current restructuring project. we could experience a production disruption at these or any of our manufacturing sites resulting in a reduction or elimination of the availability of some of our products. if we are not able to obtain alternate production capability in a timely manner, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. 8 a significant interruption in the operation of any of our supply chain or distribution capabilities could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our ability and the ability of our third-party suppliers and service providers, distributors, and contract manufacturers to manufacture, distribute, and sell products is critical to our success. a significant interruption in the operation of any of our manufacturing or distribution capabilities, or the manufacturing or distribution capabilities of our suppliers, distributors, or contract manufacturers, or a service failure by a third-party service provider, whether as a result of adverse weather conditions or a natural disaster, terrorism, pandemic illness, or other causes, could significantly impair our ability to operate our business. notably, as a result of our current restructuring project, substantially all of our coffee production takes place in new orleans, louisiana, which is subject to risks associated with hurricane and other weather-related events. failure to take adequate steps to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our business could be harmed by strikes or work stoppages. as of april 30, 2013, approximately 28 percent of our employees, located at nine facilities, are covered by collective bargaining agreements. these contracts vary in term depending on location, with four contracts expiring in 2014. we cannot assure that we will be able to renew these collective bargaining agreements on the same or more favorable terms as the current agreements, or at all, without production interruptions caused by labor stoppages. if a strike or work stoppage were to occur in connection with negotiations of new collective bargaining agreements or as a result of disputes under collective bargaining agreements with labor unions, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. our ability to competitively serve customers depends on the availability of reliable transportation. increases in logistics and other transportation-related costs could adversely impact our results of operations. logistics and other transportation-related costs have a significant impact on our earnings and results of operations. we use multiple forms of transportation to bring our products to market. they include ships, trucks, intermodals, and railcars. disruption to the timely supply of these services or increases in the cost of these services for any reason, including availability or cost of fuel, regulations affecting the industry, labor shortages in the transportation industry, service failures by third-party service providers, accidents, or natural disasters (which may impact the transportation infrastructure or demand for transportation services), could have an adverse effect on our ability to serve our customers, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our operations are subject to the general risks of the food industry. the food industry is subject to risks posed by food spoilage and contamination, product tampering, product recall, and consumer product liability claims. our operations could be impacted by both genuine and fictitious claims regarding our products, as well as our competitors products. in the event of product contamination or tampering, we may need to recall some of our products. a widespread product recall could result in significant loss due to the cost of conducting a product recall, including destruction of inventory and the loss of sales resulting from the unavailability of product for a period of time. we could also suffer losses from a significant product liability judgment against us. a significant product recall or a product liability judgment, involving either us or our competitors, could also result in a loss of consumer confidence in our food products or the food category, and an actual or perceived loss of value of our brands, materially impacting consumer demand. 9 changes in our relationships with significant customers, including the loss of our largest customer, could adversely affect our results of operations. sales to wal-mart stores, inc. and its subsidiaries amounted to approximately 26 percent of net sales in 2013. these sales are primarily included in the two u.s. retail market segments. trade receivables at april 30, 2013, included amounts due from wal-mart stores, inc. and its subsidiaries of approximately $92.0 million, or approximately 29 percent of the total trade receivables balance. during 2013, our top 10 customers, collectively, accounted for approximately 63 percent of consolidated net sales. we expect that a significant portion of our revenues will continue to be derived from a small number of customers. our customers are generally not contractually obligated to purchase from us. these customers make purchase decisions based on a combination of price, promotional support, product quality, consumer demand, customer service performance, their desired inventory levels, and other factors. changes in customers strategies, including a reduction in the number of brands they carry or a shift of shelf space to private label products, may adversely affect sales. customers also may respond to price increases by reducing distribution, resulting in reduced sales of our products. additionally, our customers may face financial or other difficulties that may impact their operations and their purchases from us, which could adversely affect our results of operations. a reduction in sales to one or more major customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we operate in the competitive food industry and continued demand for our products may be affected by changes in consumer preferences. we face competition across our product lines from other food companies with the primary methods and factors in competition being product quality, price, packaging, product innovation, nutritional value, convenience, customer service, advertising, and promotion. continued success is dependent on product innovation, the ability to secure and maintain adequate retail shelf space, and effective trade merchandising, advertising, and marketing programs. some of our competitors have substantial financial, marketing, and other resources, and competition with them in our various markets and product lines could cause us to reduce prices, increase marketing or other expenditures, or lose category share. category share and growth could be adversely impacted if we are not successful in introducing new products. in order to generate future revenues and profits, we must continue to sell products that appeal to our customers and consumers. specifically, there are a number of trends in consumer preferences that may impact us and the food industry as a whole, including convenience, taste, consumer dietary trends, and obesity, health, and nutritional concerns. in particular, consumers, public health officials, and government officials have become increasingly concerned about the public health consequences associated with weight management, particularly among young people. prolonged negative perceptions concerning the health implications of certain food products could influence consumer preferences and acceptance of some of our products and marketing programs. although we strive to respond to consumer preferences and social expectations, we may not be successful in these efforts. increasing public concern regarding health issues and failure to satisfy consumer preferences could decrease demand for certain of our products and adversely affect our profitability. 10 the success of our business depends substantially on consumer perceptions of our brands. we hold the #1 branded leadership position in several categories both in the u.s. and canada. we believe that maintaining and continually enhancing the value of our brands is critical to the success of our business. brand value is based in large part on consumer perceptions. success in promoting and enhancing brand value depends in large part on our ability to provide high-quality products. brand value could diminish significantly as a result of a number of factors, such as if we fail to preserve the quality of our products, if we are perceived to act in an irresponsible manner, if the company or our brands otherwise receive negative publicity, if our brands fail to deliver a consistently positive consumer experience, or if our products become unavailable to consumers. the growing use of social and digital media by consumers increases the speed and extent that information and opinions can be shared. if our brand values are diminished, our revenues and operating results could be materially adversely affected. in addition, anything that harms the pillsbury , dunkin donuts , carnation , borden , or cumberland brands could adversely affect the success of our exclusive licensing agreements with the owners of these brands. we could be subject to adverse publicity or claims from consumers. certain of our products contain caffeine and other ingredients, the health effects of which are the subject of public scrutiny, including the suggestion that consumption may have adverse health effects. an unfavorable report on the health effects of caffeine or other ingredients present in our products, product recalls, or negative publicity or litigation arising from other health risks could significantly reduce the demand for our products. we may also be subject to complaints from or litigation by consumers who allege food and beverage-related illness, or other quality, health, or operational concerns. adverse publicity resulting from such allegations could materially adversely affect us, regardless of whether such allegations are true or whether we are ultimately held liable. a lawsuit or claim could result in an adverse decision against us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our operations are subject to the general risks associated with acquisitions. our stated long-term strategy is to own and market leading north american food brands sold in the center of the store while maintaining a global perspective. we have historically made strategic acquisitions of brands and businesses and intend to do so in the future in support of this strategy. if we are unable to complete acquisitions or to successfully integrate and develop acquired businesses, we could fail to achieve anticipated synergies and cost savings, including the expected increases in revenues and operating results, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. additional potential risks associated with acquisitions are the diversion of management attention from other business concerns, additional debt leverage, the loss of key employees and customers of the acquired business, the assumption of unknown liabilities, disputes with sellers, and the inherent risk associated with entering a line of business in which we have no or limited prior experience. we may not achieve cost savings anticipated as a result of our restructuring initiatives. we have periodically commenced restructuring initiatives with the expectation of realizing future benefits including operational efficiencies or cost savings. the future benefits we expect from restructuring initiatives may not be realized during the time period expected, or at all, due to unforeseen or changing business conditions. in addition, costs incurred to realize the future benefits may be higher than anticipated and our results of operations could be adversely affected. weak financial performance, downgrades in our credit ratings, or disruptions in the financial markets may adversely affect our ability to access capital in the future. 11 we may need new or additional financing in the future to conduct our operations, expand our business, or refinance existing indebtedness. our financial performance, our short-term and long-term credit ratings, the liquidity of the overall capital markets, and the state of the economy, including the food and beverage industry, may make credit and capital markets more difficult for us to access, even though we have an established revolving credit facility. from time to time, we have relied, and also may rely in the future, on access to financial markets as a source of liquidity for working capital requirements, acquisitions, and general corporate purposes. in particular, our access to funds under our revolving credit facility is dependent on the ability of the financial institutions that are parties to that facility to meet their funding commitments. the obligations of the financial institutions under our revolving credit facility are several and not joint and, as a result, a funding default by one or more institutions does not need to be made up by the others. in addition, long-term volatility and disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation of financial institutions, reduced alternatives, or failure of significant financial institutions could adversely affect our access to the liquidity needed for our businesses in the longer term. such disruptions could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for our business needs can be arranged. disruptions in the capital and credit markets could also result in higher interest rates on publicly issued debt securities and increased costs under credit facilities. continuation of these disruptions would increase our interest expense and capital costs and could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. a material impairment in the carrying value of acquired goodwill or other intangible assets could negatively affect our consolidated operating results and net worth. a significant portion of our assets is goodwill and other intangible assets, the majority of which are not amortized but are reviewed at least annually for impairment. at april 30, 2013, the carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets totaled approximately $6.1 billion, compared to total assets of approximately $9.0 billion and total shareholders equity of approximately $5.1 billion. if the carrying value of these assets exceeds the current estimated fair value, the asset is considered impaired and this could result in a noncash charge to earnings. any such impairment charge would reduce earnings and could be material. events and conditions that could result in impairment include a sustained drop in the market price of our common shares, increased competition or loss of market share, obsolescence, or product claims that result in a significant loss of sales or profitability over the product life. crisco has historically been a leader in the shortening and cooking oils categories. in recent years, however, crisco sales volume has declined, primarily due to substantial price competition with private label offerings, volatile commodity prices, and a decline in the shortening category. the crisco brand continues to be important to the company, and we continue to focus on its long-term health. however, if recent trends continue, the long-term assumptions relative to growth rates and profitability of the crisco brand may not be attained, which could result in an impairment of the crisco trademark. changes in tax, environmental, or other regulations and laws, or their application, or failure to comply with existing licensing, trade, and other regulations and laws could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. our operations are subject to various regulations and laws administered by federal, state, and local government agencies in the u.s., as well as to regulations and laws administered by government agencies in canada and other countries in which we have operations and our products are sold. in particular, the manufacturing, marketing, packaging, labeling, and distribution of food products are each subject to governmental regulation that is increasingly extensive, encompassing such matters as ingredients, packaging, advertising, relations with distributors and retailers, health, safety, and the environment. additionally, we are routinely subject to new or modified tax and securities regulations, other laws and regulations, and accounting and reporting standards. 12 in the u.s., we are required to comply with federal laws, such as the food, drug and cosmetic act, the occupational safety and health act, the clean air act, the clean water act, the resource conservation and recovery act, laws governing equal employment opportunity, and various other federal statutes and regulations. we are also subject to various state and local statutes and regulations. for instance, the california safe drinking water and toxic enforcement act of 1986 (commonly referred to as proposition 65 ) requires that a specific warning appear on any product sold in the state of california that contains a substance listed by that state as having been found to cause cancer or birth defects. this law exposes all food and beverage producers to the possibility of having to provide warnings on their products. the detection of even a trace amount of a listed substance can subject an affected product to the requirement of a warning label. products containing listed substances that occur naturally or that are contributed to such products solely by a municipal water supply are generally exempt from the warning requirement. if we are required to add warning labels to any of our products or place warnings in certain locations where our products are sold as a result of proposition 65, sales of those products could suffer not only in those locations but elsewhere. complying with new regulations and laws, or changes to existing regulations and laws, or their application could increase our production costs or adversely affect our sales of certain products. in addition, our failure or inability to comply with applicable regulations and laws could subject us to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, recalls or seizures, as well as potential criminal sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. our operations in certain developing markets expose us to regulatory risks. in many countries outside of the u.s., particularly in those with developing economies, it may be common for others to engage in business practices prohibited by laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act or similar local anti-bribery or anti-corruption laws. these laws generally prohibit companies and their employees, contractors, or agents from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. failure to comply with these laws could subject us to civil and criminal penalties that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. changes in climate or legal, regulatory, or market measures to address climate change may negatively affect our business and operations. while scientific consensus on the existence, potential causes, or likely outcomes of global climate change has not yet been reached, researchers continue to aggressively explore this issue. however, there already exists significant political and scientific concern that emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases may alter the composition of the global atmosphere in ways that are affecting and are expected to continue affecting the global climate. the emission of such greenhouse gases may have an adverse impact on global temperatures, weather patterns, and the frequency and severity of extreme weather and natural disasters. in the event that climate change may have a negative effect on agricultural productivity, we may be subject to decreased availability or less favorable pricing for certain commodities that are necessary for our products, such as green coffee, peanuts, sweeteners, edible oils, wheat, milk, cocoa, and various fruits and vegetables. we may also be subjected to decreased availability or less favorable pricing for water as a result of such change, which could impact our manufacturing and distribution operations. in addition, natural disasters and extreme weather conditions may disrupt the productivity of facilities or the operation of our supply chain. increasing concern over climate change also may result in more regulatory requirements to reduce or mitigate the effects of greenhouse gases. in the event that such regulations are enacted and are more rigorous than existing regulations, we may experience significant increases in costs of operation and delivery. in particular, increased regulation of utility providers, fuel emissions, or suppliers could substantially increase our operating, distribution, or supply chain costs. we could also face increased costs related to defending and resolving legal claims and other litigation related to climate change. as a result, climate change could negatively affect our results of operations, cash flows, or financial position. 13 if our information technology systems fail to perform adequately or we are unable to protect such information technology systems against data corruption, cyber-based attacks, or network security breaches, our operations could be disrupted, and we may suffer financial damage or loss because of lost or misappropriated information. we rely on information technology networks and systems, including the internet, to process, transmit, and store electronic information. in particular, we depend on our information technology infrastructure to effectively manage our business data, supply chain, logistics, accounting, and other business processes and for digital marketing activities and electronic communications between company personnel and our customers and suppliers. if we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain an appropriate technology infrastructure, or we do not effectively implement system upgrades, our business or financial results could be negatively impacted. in particular, we are undertaking a significant upgrade of our enterprise resource planning systems with an anticipated completion during the first quarter of 2014. if we do not effectively manage this upgrade, our business or financial results could be negatively impacted. while we have robust plans in place to ensure success, contingencies have been developed to address potential business disruption, including postponement of the upgrade. security breaches or system failures of our infrastructure can create system disruptions, shutdowns, or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. if we are unable to prevent such breaches or failures, our operations could be disrupted, or we may suffer financial damage or loss because of lost or misappropriated information. in addition, we have outsourced certain information technology support services and administrative functions, such as accounts payable processing and benefit plan administration, to third-party service providers, and may outsource other functions in the future to achieve cost savings and efficiencies. if the service providers to which we outsource these functions do not perform effectively, we may not be able to achieve the expected cost savings and may have to incur additional costs in connection with such failure to perform. depending on the function involved, such failures may also lead to business disruption, processing inefficiencies, the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach, the loss of sensitive data through security breach, or otherwise. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk are incorporated herein by reference to the information set forth in our 2013 annual report to shareholders under the caption derivative financial instruments and market risk on pages 34 and 35.risk factors. our business, operations, and financial condition are subject to various risks and uncertainties. the risk factors described below should be carefully considered, together with the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this report and our other filings with the sec, in connection with evaluating the company, our business, and the forward-looking statements contained in this report. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may affect us. the occurrence of any of these known or unknown risks could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we may be unable to grow market share of our products. we operate in the competitive food industry whose growth potential is generally correlated to population growth. our success depends in part on our ability to grow our brands faster than the population in general. we consider our ability to build and sustain the equity of our brands critical to our market share growth. if we do not succeed in these efforts, our market share growth may slow, which could have a material impact on our results of operations. our proprietary brands, packaging designs, and manufacturing methods are essential to the value of our business, and the inability to protect these could harm the value of our brands and adversely affect our sales and profitability. 6 table of contents the success of our business depends significantly on our brands, know-how, and other intellectual property. we rely on a combination of trademarks, service marks, trade secrets, patents, copyrights, and similar rights to protect our intellectual property. the success of our growth strategy depends on our continued ability to use our existing trademarks and service marks in order to maintain and increase brand awareness and further develop our brand. if our efforts to protect our intellectual property are not adequate, or if any third party misappropriates or infringes on our intellectual property, the value of our brand may be harmed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. from time to time, we are engaged in litigation to protect our intellectual property, which could result in substantial costs as well as diversion of management attention. in particular, we consider our proprietary coffee roasting methods essential to the consistent flavor and richness of our coffee products and, therefore, essential to our coffee brands. because many of the roasting methods we use are not protected by patents, it may be difficult for us to prevent competitors from copying our roasting methods if such methods become known. we also believe that our packaging innovations, such as brick packaging technology and our aromaseal tm canisters, are important to the coffee business marketing and operational efforts. if our competitors copy our roasting or packaging methods or develop more advanced roasting or packaging methods, the value of our coffee brands may be diminished, and we could lose customers to our competitors. we use a single national broker to represent a portion of our branded products to the retail grocery trade and any failure by the broker to effectively represent us could adversely affect our business. we use a single national broker in the u.s. to represent a portion of our branded products to the retail grocery trade. our business would suffer disruption if this broker were to default in the performance of its obligations to perform brokerage services or if this broker fails to effectively represent us to the retail grocery trade, which could adversely affect our business. loss or interruption of supply from single-source suppliers of raw materials and finished goods could have a disruptive effect on our business and adversely affect our results of operations. we have elected to source certain raw materials, such as packaging for our folgers coffee products, as well as our jif peanut butter and crisco oil products, and finished goods, such as k-cup &reg; packs, from single sources of supply. while we believe that, except as set forth below, alternative sources of these raw materials and finished goods could be obtained on commercially reasonable terms, loss or an extended interruption in supplies from a single-source supplier would result in additional costs, could have a disruptive short-term effect on our business, and could adversely affect our results of operations. keurig is our single-source supplier for k-cup &reg; packs which are used in its proprietary keurig &reg; k-cup brewing system. there are a limited number of manufacturers other than keurig that are making cups that will work in such proprietary brewing system. if keurig is unable to supply k-cup &reg; packs to us for any reason, it could be difficult to find an alternative supplier for such goods on commercially reasonable terms, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our results may be adversely impacted as a result of increased cost, limited availability, and/or insufficient quality of raw materials, including commodities and agricultural products. we and our business partners purchase and use large quantities of many different commodities and agricultural products in the manufacturing of our products, including green coffee, peanuts, sweeteners, edible oils, fruit, wheat, milk, and cocoa. in addition, we and our business partners utilize significant quantities of plastic, glass, and cardboard to package our products and natural gas and fuel oil to manufacture, package, and distribute our products. the prices of these commodities, agricultural products, and other materials are subject to volatility and can fluctuate 7 table of contents due to conditions that are difficult to predict, including global supply and demand, commodity market fluctuations, crop sizes and yield fluctuations, weather, natural disasters, currency fluctuations, investor speculation, trade agreements, political unrest, consumer demand, and changes in governmental agricultural programs. in addition, we compete for certain raw materials, notably corn and soy-based agricultural products, with the biofuels industry, which has resulted in increased prices for these raw materials. additionally, farm acreage currently devoted to other agricultural products we purchase may be utilized for biofuels crops resulting in higher cost for the other agricultural products we utilize. although we use basis, futures, and options contracts to manage commodity price volatility in some instances, commodity price increases ultimately result in corresponding increases in our raw material and energy costs. we expect the green coffee commodity markets to continue to be challenging due to significant ongoing price volatility. for example, during the first half of the 2014 calendar year, drought conditions and coffee tree leaf rust fungus have affected production in key coffee-producing regions, such as brazil and central america. due to the significance of green coffee to our coffee business, combined with our ability to only partially mitigate future price risk through purchasing practices and hedging activities, significant increases or decreases in the cost of green coffee could have an adverse impact on our profitability. in addition, if we are not able to purchase sufficient quantities of green coffee due to any of the above factors or to a worldwide or regional shortage, we may not be able to fulfill the demand for our coffee, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our efforts to manage commodity, foreign currency exchange, and other price volatility through derivative instruments could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we use derivative instruments, including commodity futures and options, to reduce the price volatility associated with anticipated commodity purchases. the extent of our derivative position at any given time depends on our assessment of the markets for these commodities. if we fail to take a derivative position and costs subsequently increase, or if we institute a position and costs subsequently decrease, our costs may be greater than anticipated or higher than our competitors costs and our financial results could be adversely affected. in addition, our liquidity may be adversely impacted by the cash margin requirements of the commodities exchanges or the failure of a counterparty to perform in accordance with a contract. beginning in 2015, we will elect to mark-to-market all of our commodity and foreign currency exchange derivatives through the statement of consolidated income. prior to 2015, mark-to-market gains and losses on derivatives that qualified for hedge accounting as cash flow hedges were initially deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income. as a result of this change in accounting treatment, changes in the fair value of all of our derivatives will be immediately recognized in consolidated earnings, resulting in increased volatility in both gross profit and net income. these gains and losses will be reported in cost of products sold in our statement of consolidated income but excluded from our segment operating results and non-gaap earnings until the related inventory is sold, at which time the gains and losses will be reclassified to segment profit and non-gaap earnings. although this change more accurately aligns the derivative gains and losses with the underlying exposure being hedged within segment results, we may experience more volatility in our consolidated earnings as a result of this change in accounting treatment. we may be limited in our ability to pass cost increases on to our customers in the form of price increases or may realize a decrease in sales volume to the extent price increases are implemented. we may not be able to pass some or all of any increases in the price of raw materials, energy, and other input costs to our customers by raising prices. to the extent competitors do not also increase their prices, customers and consumers may choose to purchase competing products or may shift purchases to private label or other lower-priced offerings, which may adversely affect our results of operations. 8 table of contents consumers may be less willing or able to pay a price differential for our branded products, and may increasingly purchase lower-priced offerings and may forego some purchases altogether, especially during economic downturns. retailers may also increase levels of promotional activity for lower-priced offerings as they seek to maintain sales volumes during times of economic uncertainty. accordingly, sales volumes of our branded products could be reduced or lead to a shift in sales mix toward our lower-margin offerings. as a result, decreased demand for our products may adversely affect our results of operations. certain of our products are sourced from single manufacturing sites. we have consolidated our production capacity for certain products, including substantially all of our coffee, fruit spreads, syrups, and toppings production, into single manufacturing sites. similarly, most of our peanut butter is being produced at our facility in lexington, kentucky. the conversion of our facility in memphis, tennessee, into an additional peanut butter plant is expected to be completed during 2015. we could experience a production disruption at these or any of our manufacturing sites resulting in a reduction or elimination of the availability of some of our products. if we are not able to obtain alternate production capability in a timely manner, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. a significant interruption in the operation of any of our supply chain or distribution capabilities could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our ability and the ability of our third-party suppliers and service providers, distributors, and contract manufacturers to manufacture, distribute, and sell products is critical to our success. a significant interruption in the operation of any of our manufacturing or distribution capabilities, or the manufacturing or distribution capabilities of our suppliers, distributors, or contract manufacturers, or a service failure by a third-party service provider, whether as a result of adverse weather conditions or a natural disaster, work stoppage, terrorism, pandemic illness, or other causes, could significantly impair our ability to operate our business. notably, as a result of our current restructuring project, substantially all of our coffee production takes place in new orleans, louisiana, which is subject to risks associated with hurricane and other weather-related events. failure to take adequate steps to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our business could be harmed by strikes or work stoppages. as of april 30, 2014, 26 percent of our employees, located at eight facilities, are covered by collective bargaining agreements. these contracts vary in term depending on location, with one contract expiring in 2015. we cannot assure that we will be able to renew these collective bargaining agreements on the same or more favorable terms as the current agreements, or at all, without production interruptions caused by labor stoppages. if a strike or work stoppage were to occur in connection with negotiations of new collective bargaining agreements or as a result of disputes under collective bargaining agreements with labor unions, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. our ability to competitively serve customers depends on the availability of reliable transportation. increases in logistics and other transportation-related costs could adversely impact our results of operations. logistics and other transportation-related costs have a significant impact on our earnings and results of operations. we use multiple forms of transportation, including ships, trucks, intermodals, and railcars, to bring our products to market. disruption to the timely supply of these 9 table of contents services or increases in the cost of these services for any reason, including availability or cost of fuel, regulations affecting the industry, labor shortages in the transportation industry, service failures by third-party service providers, accidents, or natural disasters (which may impact the transportation infrastructure or demand for transportation services), could have an adverse effect on our ability to serve our customers, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our operations are subject to the general risks of the food industry. the food industry is subject to risks posed by food spoilage and contamination, product tampering, product recall, and consumer product liability claims. our operations could be impacted by both genuine and fictitious claims regarding our products, as well as our competitors products. in the event of product contamination or tampering, we may need to recall some of our products. a widespread product recall could result in significant loss due to the cost of conducting a product recall, including destruction of inventory and the loss of sales resulting from the unavailability of product for a period of time. we could also suffer losses from a significant product liability judgment against us. a significant product recall or a product liability judgment, involving either us or our competitors, could also result in a loss of consumer confidence in our food products or the food category, and an actual or perceived loss of value of our brands, materially impacting consumer demand. changes in our relationships with significant customers, including the loss of our largest customer, could adversely affect our results of operations. sales to wal-mart stores, inc. and subsidiaries amounted to 27 percent of net sales in 2014. these sales are primarily included in the two u.s. retail market segments. trade receivables at april 30, 2014, included amounts due from wal-mart stores, inc. and subsidiaries of $76.6 million, or 25 percent of the total trade receivables balance. during 2014, our top 10 customers, collectively, accounted for 62 percent of consolidated net sales. we expect that a significant portion of our revenues will continue to be derived from a limited number of customers. our customers are generally not contractually obligated to purchase from us. these customers make purchase decisions based on a combination of price, promotional support, product quality, consumer demand, customer service performance, their desired inventory levels, and other factors. changes in customers strategies, including a reduction in the number of brands they carry or a shift of shelf space to private label products, may adversely affect sales. customers also may respond to price increases by reducing distribution, resulting in reduced sales of our products. additionally, our customers may face financial or other difficulties that may impact their operations and their purchases from us, which could adversely affect our results of operations. a reduction in sales to one or more major customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we operate in the competitive food industry and continued demand for our products may be affected by changes in consumer preferences. we face competition across our product lines from other food companies with the primary methods and factors in competition being product quality, price, packaging, product innovation, nutritional value, convenience, customer service, advertising, and promotion. continued success is dependent on product innovation, the ability to secure and maintain adequate retail shelf space, and effective trade merchandising, advertising, and marketing programs. some of our competitors have substantial financial, marketing, and other resources, and competition with them in our various markets and product lines could cause us to reduce prices, increase marketing or other expenditures, or lose category share. category share and growth could be adversely impacted if we are not successful in introducing new products. in order to generate future revenues and profits, we must continue to sell products that appeal to our customers and consumers. specifically, there are a number of trends in consumer preferences that may impact us and the food industry as a whole, including convenience, taste, consumer dietary trends, and obesity, health, and nutritional concerns. 10 table of contents in particular, consumers, public health officials, and government officials have become increasingly concerned about the public health consequences associated with weight management, particularly among young people. prolonged negative perceptions concerning the health implications of certain food products could influence consumer preferences and acceptance of some of our products and marketing programs. although we strive to respond to consumer preferences and social expectations, we may not be successful in these efforts. increasing public concern regarding health issues and failure to satisfy consumer preferences could decrease demand for certain of our products and adversely affect our profitability. the success of our business depends substantially on consumer perceptions of our brands. we are the branded market leader in several categories both in the u.s. and canada. we believe that maintaining and continually enhancing the value of our brands is critical to the success of our business. brand value is based in large part on consumer perceptions. success in promoting and enhancing brand value depends in large part on our ability to provide high-quality products. brand value could diminish significantly as a result of a number of factors, such as if we fail to preserve the quality of our products, if we are perceived to act in an irresponsible manner, if the company or our brands otherwise receive negative publicity, if our brands fail to deliver a consistently positive consumer experience, or if our products become unavailable to consumers. the growing use of social and digital media by consumers increases the speed and extent that information and opinions can be shared. if our brand values are diminished, our revenues and operating results could be materially adversely affected. in addition, anything that harms the pillsbury , dunkin donuts , carnation , borden , douwe egberts , or cumberland brands could adversely affect the success of our exclusive licensing agreements with the owners of these brands. we could be subject to adverse publicity or claims from consumers. certain of our products contain caffeine and other ingredients, the health effects of which are the subject of public scrutiny, including the suggestion that consumption may have adverse health effects. an unfavorable report on the health effects of caffeine or other ingredients present in our products, product recalls, or negative publicity or litigation arising from other health risks could significantly reduce the demand for our products. we may also be subject to complaints from or litigation by consumers who allege food and beverage-related illness, or other quality, health, or operational concerns. adverse publicity resulting from such allegations could materially adversely affect us, regardless of whether such allegations are true or whether we are ultimately held liable. a lawsuit or claim could result in an adverse decision against us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our operations are subject to the general risks associated with acquisitions. our stated long-term strategy is to own and market leading north american food brands sold in the center of the store while maintaining a global perspective. we have historically made strategic acquisitions of brands and businesses and intend to do so in the future in support of this strategy. if we are unable to complete acquisitions or to successfully integrate and develop acquired businesses, we could fail to achieve the anticipated synergies and cost savings, or the expected increases in revenues and operating results, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. additional potential risks associated with acquisitions are the diversion of management attention from other business concerns, additional debt leverage, the loss of key employees and customers of the acquired business, the assumption of unknown liabilities, disputes with sellers, and the inherent risk associated with entering a line of business in which we have no or limited prior experience. 11 table of contents weak financial performance, downgrades in our credit ratings, or disruptions in the financial markets may adversely affect our ability to access capital in the future. we may need new or additional financing in the future to conduct our operations, expand our business, or refinance existing indebtedness. our financial performance, our short-term and long-term credit ratings, the liquidity of the overall capital markets, and the state of the economy, including the food and beverage industry, may make credit and capital markets more difficult for us to access, even though we have an established revolving credit facility. from time to time, we have relied, and also may rely in the future, on access to financial markets as a source of liquidity for working capital requirements, acquisitions, and general corporate purposes. in particular, our access to funds under our revolving credit facility is dependent on the ability of the financial institutions that are parties to that facility to meet their funding commitments. the obligations of the financial institutions under our revolving credit facility are several and not joint and, as a result, a funding default by one or more institutions does not need to be made up by the others. in addition, long-term volatility and disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation of financial institutions, reduced alternatives, or failure of significant financial institutions could adversely affect our access to the liquidity needed for our businesses in the longer term. such disruptions could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for our business needs can be arranged. disruptions in the capital and credit markets could also result in higher interest rates on publicly issued debt securities and increased costs under credit facilities. continuation of these disruptions would increase our interest expense and capital costs and could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. a material impairment in the carrying value of acquired goodwill or other intangible assets could negatively affect our consolidated operating results and net worth. a significant portion of our assets is goodwill and other intangible assets, the majority of which are not amortized but are reviewed at least annually for impairment. at april 30, 2014, the carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets totaled approximately $6.1 billion, compared to total assets of approximately $9.1 billion and total shareholders equity of approximately $5.0 billion. if the carrying value of these assets exceeds the current estimated fair value, the asset is considered impaired and this could result in a noncash charge to earnings. any such impairment charge would reduce earnings and could be material. events and conditions that could result in impairment include a sustained drop in the market price of our common shares, increased competition or loss of market share, obsolescence, or product claims that result in a significant loss of sales or profitability over the product life. crisco has historically been a leader in the shortening and cooking oils categories. in recent years, however, crisco sales volume has been impacted by substantial price competition with private label offerings, volatile commodity prices, and a decline in the shortening category. the estimated fair value of the crisco trademark decreased approximately $7.0 million, or 4 percent, from 2013 to 2014. we anticipate modest long-term growth for the crisco business due to the competitive landscape of the cooking oils category and assumed a long-term growth rate of 2.5 percent for the 2014 annual impairment test of our indefinite-lived trademarks. a sensitivity analysis was performed on the crisco trademark assuming a hypothetical 50-basis-point increase in the discount rate and a 50-basis-point decrease in the expected long-term growth rate which yielded an estimated fair value slightly below carrying value. the crisco brand continues to be important to the company, and we continue to focus on its long-term health. however, if recent trends continue, the long-term assumptions relative to growth rates and profitability of the crisco brand may not be attained, which could result in an impairment of the crisco trademark. changes in tax, environmental, or other regulations and laws, or their application, or failure to comply with existing licensing, trade, and other regulations and laws could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. 12 table of contents our operations are subject to various regulations and laws administered by federal, state, and local government agencies in the u.s., as well as to regulations and laws administered by government agencies in canada and other countries in which we have operations and our products are sold. in particular, the manufacturing, marketing, packaging, labeling, and distribution of food products are each subject to governmental regulation that is increasingly extensive, encompassing such matters as ingredients (including whether a product contains genetically modified ingredients), packaging, advertising, relations with distributors and retailers, health, safety, and the environment. additionally, we are routinely subject to new or modified tax and securities regulations, other laws and regulations, and accounting and reporting standards. in the u.s., we are required to comply with federal laws, such as the food, drug and cosmetic act, the occupational safety and health act, the clean air act, the clean water act, the resource conservation and recovery act, laws governing equal employment opportunity, and various other federal statutes and regulations. we are also subject to various state and local statutes and regulations. for instance, the california safe drinking water and toxic enforcement act of 1986 (commonly referred to as proposition 65 ) requires that a specific warning appear on any product sold in the state of california that contains a substance listed by that state as having been found to cause cancer or birth defects. this law exposes all food and beverage producers to the possibility of having to provide warnings on their products. the detection of even a trace amount of a listed substance can subject an affected product to the requirement of a warning label. products containing listed substances that occur naturally or that are contributed to such products solely by a municipal water supply are generally exempt from the warning requirement. if we are required to add warning labels to any of our products or place warnings in certain locations where our products are sold as a result of proposition 65, sales of those products could suffer not only in those locations but elsewhere. complying with new regulations and laws, or changes to existing regulations and laws, or their application could increase our production costs or adversely affect our sales of certain products. in addition, our failure or inability to comply with applicable regulations and laws could subject us to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, recalls or seizures, as well as potential criminal sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. our operations in certain developing markets expose us to regulatory risks. in many countries outside of the u.s., particularly in those with developing economies, it may be common for others to engage in business practices prohibited by laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act or similar local anti-bribery or anti-corruption laws. these laws generally prohibit companies and their employees, contractors, or agents from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. failure to comply with these laws could subject us to civil and criminal penalties that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. changes in climate or legal, regulatory, or market measures to address climate change may negatively affect our business and operations. while scientific consensus on the existence, potential causes, or likely outcomes of global climate change has not yet been reached, researchers continue to aggressively explore this issue. there already exists significant political and scientific concern that emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases may alter the composition of the global atmosphere in ways that are affecting and are expected to continue affecting the global climate. the emission of such greenhouse gases may have an adverse impact on global temperatures, weather patterns, and the frequency and severity of extreme weather and natural disasters. in the event that climate change has a negative effect on agricultural productivity, we may be subject to decreased availability or less favorable pricing for certain commodities that are necessary for our products, such as green coffee, peanuts, sweeteners, edible oils, wheat, milk, cocoa, and various fruits and vegetables. we may also be subjected to decreased availability or less favorable pricing for water as a result 13 table of contents of such change, which could impact our manufacturing and distribution operations. in addition, natural disasters and extreme weather conditions may disrupt the productivity of our facilities or the operation of our supply chain. increasing concern over climate change also may result in more regulatory requirements to reduce or mitigate the effects of greenhouse gases. in the event that such regulations are enacted and are more rigorous than existing regulations, we may experience significant increases in costs of operation and delivery. in particular, increased regulation of utility providers, fuel emissions, or suppliers could substantially increase our operating, distribution, or supply chain costs. we could also face increased costs related to defending and resolving legal claims and other litigation related to climate change. as a result, climate change could negatively affect our results of operations, cash flows, or financial position. if our information technology systems fail to perform adequately or we are unable to protect such information technology systems against data corruption, cyber-based attacks, or network security breaches, our operations could be disrupted, and we may suffer financial damage or loss because of lost or misappropriated information. we rely on information technology networks and systems, including the internet, to process, transmit, and store electronic information. in particular, we depend on our information technology infrastructure to effectively manage our business data, supply chain, logistics, finance, and other business processes and for digital marketing activities and electronic communications between company personnel and our customers and suppliers. if we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build, sustain, and protect an appropriate technology infrastructure, or we do not effectively implement system upgrades, our business or financial results could be negatively impacted. security breaches or system failures of our infrastructure, whether due to attacks by hackers, employee error, or other causes, can create system disruptions, shutdowns, or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. if we are unable to prevent such breaches or failures, our operations could be disrupted, or we may suffer financial damage or loss because of lost or misappropriated information. in addition, we have outsourced several information technology support services and administrative functions, including accounts payable processing, benefit plan administration, and other functions, to third-party service providers, and may outsource other functions in the future to achieve cost savings and efficiencies. if the service providers to which we outsource these functions do not perform effectively, we may not be able to achieve the expected cost savings and may have to incur additional costs to correct errors made by such service providers. depending on the function involved, such errors may also lead to business disruption, processing inefficiencies, the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach, the loss of sensitive data through security breach, or otherwise. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk are incorporated herein by reference to the information set forth in our 2014 annual report to shareholders under the caption derivative financial instruments and market risk on pages 33 and 34.risk factors. our business, operations, and financial condition are subject to various risks and uncertainties. the risk factors described below should be carefully considered, together with the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this report and our other filings with the sec, in connection with evaluating the company, our business, and the forward-looking statements contained in this report. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may affect us. the occurrence of any of these known or unknown risks could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we may be unable to grow market share of our products. we operate in the competitive food industry whose growth potential is generally correlated to population growth. our success depends in part on our ability to grow our brands faster than the population in general. we consider our ability to build and sustain the equity of our brands critical to our market share growth. if we do not succeed in these efforts, our market share growth may slow, which could have a material impact on our results of operations. our proprietary brands, packaging designs, and manufacturing methods are essential to the value of our business, and the inability to protect these could harm the value of our brands and adversely affect our sales and profitability. the success of our business depends significantly on our brands, know-how, and other intellectual property. we rely on a combination of trademarks, service marks, trade secrets, patents, copyrights, and similar rights to protect our intellectual property. the success of our growth strategy depends on our continued ability to use our existing trademarks and service marks in order to maintain and increase brand awareness and further develop our brand. if our efforts to protect our intellectual property are not adequate, or if any third party misappropriates or infringes on our intellectual property, the value of our brand may be harmed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. from time to time, we are engaged in litigation to protect our intellectual property, which could result in substantial costs as well as diversion of management attention. in particular, we consider our proprietary coffee roasting methods essential to the consistent flavor and richness of our coffee products and, therefore, essential to our coffee brands. because many of the roasting methods we use are not protected by patents, it may be difficult for us to prevent competitors from copying our roasting methods if such methods become known. we also believe that our packaging innovations, such as brick packaging technology and our aromaseal tm canisters, are important to the coffee business marketing and operational efforts. if our 7 competitors copy our roasting or packaging methods or develop more advanced roasting or packaging methods, the value of our coffee brands may be diminished, and we could lose customers to our competitors. we use a single national broker to represent a portion of our branded products to the retail grocery trade and any failure by the broker to effectively represent us could adversely affect our business. we use a single national broker in the u.s. to represent a portion of our branded products to the retail grocery trade. our business would suffer disruption if this broker were to default in the performance of its obligations to perform brokerage services or if this broker fails to effectively represent us to the retail grocery trade, which could adversely affect our business. loss or interruption of supply from single-source suppliers of raw materials and finished goods could have a disruptive effect on our business and adversely affect our results of operations. we have elected to source certain raw materials, such as packaging for our folgers coffee products, as well as our jif peanut butter and crisco oil products, and finished goods, such as k-cup &reg; pods and our pup-peroni dog snack products, from single sources of supply. while we believe that, except as set forth below, alternative sources of these raw materials and finished goods could be obtained on commercially reasonable terms, loss or an extended interruption in supplies from a single-source supplier would result in additional costs, could have a disruptive short-term effect on our business, and could adversely affect our results of operations. keurig is our single-source supplier for k-cup &reg; pods which are used in its proprietary keurig &reg; k-cup brewing system. there are a limited number of manufacturers other than keurig that are making cups that will work in such proprietary brewing system. if keurig is unable to supply k-cup &reg; pods to us for any reason, it could be difficult to find an alternative supplier for such goods on commercially reasonable terms, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our results may be adversely impacted as a result of increased cost, limited availability, and/or insufficient quality of raw materials, including commodities and agricultural products. we and our business partners purchase and use large quantities of many different commodities and agricultural products in the manufacturing of our products, including green coffee, peanuts, edible oils, wheat, sweeteners, corn, milk, fruit, vegetables, cocoa, poultry meal, soybean meal, meat, and meat by-products. in addition, we and our business partners utilize significant quantities of plastic, glass, and cardboard to package our products and natural gas and fuel oil to manufacture, package, and distribute our products. the prices of these commodities, agricultural products, and other materials are subject to volatility and can fluctuate due to conditions that are difficult to predict, including global supply and demand, commodity market fluctuations, crop sizes and yield fluctuations, weather, natural disasters, currency fluctuations, investor speculation, trade agreements, political unrest, consumer demand, and changes in governmental agricultural programs. in addition, we compete for certain raw materials, notably corn and soy-based agricultural products, with the biofuels industry, which has resulted in increased prices for these raw materials. additionally, farm acreage currently devoted to other agricultural products we purchase may be utilized for biofuels crops resulting in higher cost for the other agricultural products we utilize. although we use basis, futures, and options contracts to manage commodity price volatility in some instances, commodity price increases ultimately result in corresponding increases in our raw material and energy costs. we expect the green coffee commodity markets to continue to be challenging due to significant ongoing price volatility. for example, during the first half of the 2014 calendar year, drought conditions and coffee tree leaf rust fungus affected production in key coffee-producing regions, such as brazil and central america. due to the significance of green coffee to our coffee business, combined with our ability to only partially mitigate future price risk through purchasing 8 practices and hedging activities, significant increases or decreases in the cost of green coffee could have an adverse impact on our profitability. in addition, if we are not able to purchase sufficient quantities of green coffee due to any of the above factors or to a worldwide or regional shortage, we may not be able to fulfill the demand for our coffee, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our efforts to manage commodity, foreign currency exchange, and other price volatility through derivative instruments could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we use derivative instruments, including commodity futures and options, to reduce the price volatility associated with anticipated commodity purchases. the extent of our derivative position at any given time depends on our assessment of the markets for these commodities. if we fail to take a derivative position and costs subsequently increase, or if we institute a position and costs subsequently decrease, our costs may be greater than anticipated or higher than our competitors costs and our financial results could be adversely affected. in addition, our liquidity may be adversely impacted by the cash margin requirements of the commodities exchanges or the failure of a counterparty to perform in accordance with a contract. beginning in 2015, we elected to mark-to-market all of our commodity and foreign currency exchange derivatives through the statement of consolidated income. prior to 2015, mark-to-market gains and losses on derivatives that qualified for hedge accounting as cash flow hedges were initially deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income. as a result of this change in accounting treatment, changes in the fair value of all of our derivatives are immediately recognized in consolidated earnings, resulting in increased volatility in both gross profit and net income. these gains and losses are reported in cost of products sold in our statement of consolidated income but excluded from our segment operating results and non-gaap earnings until the related inventory is sold, at which time the gains and losses are reclassified to segment profit and non-gaap earnings. although this change more accurately aligns the derivative gains and losses with the underlying exposure being hedged within segment results, we may experience more volatility in our consolidated earnings as a result of this change in accounting treatment. we may be limited in our ability to pass cost increases on to our customers in the form of price increases or may realize a decrease in sales volume to the extent price increases are implemented. we may not be able to pass some or all of any increases in the price of raw materials, energy, and other input costs to our customers by raising prices. to the extent competitors do not also increase their prices, customers and consumers may choose to purchase competing products or may shift purchases to private label or other lower-priced offerings, which may adversely affect our results of operations. consumers may be less willing or able to pay a price differential for our branded products, and may increasingly purchase lower-priced offerings and may forego some purchases altogether, especially during economic downturns. retailers may also increase levels of promotional activity for lower-priced offerings as they seek to maintain sales volumes during times of economic uncertainty. accordingly, sales volumes of our branded products could be reduced or lead to a shift in sales mix toward our lower-margin offerings. as a result, decreased demand for our products may adversely affect our results of operations. certain of our products are sourced from single manufacturing sites. we have consolidated our production capacity for certain products, including substantially all of our coffee, milk-bone dog snacks, and fruit spreads, syrups, and toppings production, into single manufacturing sites. similarly, most of our peanut butter is being produced at our facility in lexington, kentucky, although the conversion of our facility in memphis, tennessee, into an additional peanut butter plant was completed in march 2015. we could experience a production 9 disruption at these or any of our manufacturing sites resulting in a reduction or elimination of the availability of some of our products. if we are not able to obtain alternate production capability in a timely manner, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. a significant interruption in the operation of any of our supply chain or distribution capabilities could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our ability and the ability of our third-party suppliers and service providers, distributors, and contract manufacturers to manufacture, distribute, and sell products is critical to our success. a significant interruption in the operation of any of our manufacturing or distribution capabilities, or the manufacturing or distribution capabilities of our suppliers, distributors, or contract manufacturers, or a service failure by a third-party service provider, whether as a result of adverse weather conditions or a natural disaster, work stoppage, terrorism, pandemic illness, or other causes, could significantly impair our ability to operate our business. notably, substantially all of our coffee production takes place in new orleans, louisiana, which is subject to risks associated with hurricane and other weather-related events. additionally, some of our production facilities are located in places where tornadoes can frequently occur, such as alabama and kansas. failure to take adequate steps to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our business could be harmed by strikes or work stoppages. as of april 30, 2015, 28 percent of our employees, located at 10 manufacturing facilities, are covered by collective bargaining agreements. these contracts vary in term depending on location, with three contracts expiring in 2016, representing 11 percent of our total employees. we cannot assure that we will be able to renew these collective bargaining agreements on the same or more favorable terms as the current agreements, or at all, without production interruptions caused by labor stoppages. if a strike or work stoppage were to occur in connection with negotiations of new collective bargaining agreements or as a result of disputes under collective bargaining agreements with labor unions, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. our ability to competitively serve customers depends on the availability of reliable transportation. increases in logistics and other transportation-related costs could adversely impact our results of operations. logistics and other transportation-related costs have a significant impact on our earnings and results of operations. we use multiple forms of transportation, including ships, trucks, intermodals, and railcars, to bring our products to market. disruption to the timely supply of these services or increases in the cost of these services for any reason, including availability or cost of fuel, regulations affecting the industry, labor shortages in the transportation industry, service failures by third-party service providers, accidents, or natural disasters (which may impact the transportation infrastructure or demand for transportation services), could have an adverse effect on our ability to serve our customers, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our operations are subject to the general risks of the food industry. the food industry is subject to risks posed by food spoilage and contamination, product tampering, product recall, and consumer product liability claims. our operations could be impacted by both genuine and fictitious claims regarding our products, as well as our competitors products. in the event of product contamination or tampering, we may need to recall some of our products. a widespread product recall could result in significant loss due to the cost of conducting a product recall, including destruction of inventory and the loss of sales resulting from the unavailability of 10 product for a period of time. we could also suffer losses from a significant product liability judgment against us. a significant product recall or a product liability judgment, involving either us or our competitors, could also result in a loss of consumer confidence in our food products or the food category, and an actual or perceived loss of value of our brands, materially impacting consumer demand. changes in our relationships with significant customers, including the loss of our largest customer, could adversely affect our results of operations. sales to wal-mart stores, inc. and subsidiaries amounted to 28 percent of net sales in 2015. these sales are primarily included in the u.s. retail market segments. trade receivables at april 30, 2015, included amounts due from wal-mart stores, inc. and subsidiaries of $122.6 million, or 29 percent of the total trade receivables balance. during 2015, our top 10 customers, collectively, accounted for approximately 60 percent of consolidated net sales. within the big heart business, sales to wal-mart stores, inc. and subsidiaries represent a larger portion of net sales, as compared to our business prior to the acquisition. as a result, beginning in 2016, we anticipate that sales to wal-mart stores, inc. and subsidiaries will represent a larger portion of net sales than in 2015 due to a full year of big heart sales. we expect that a significant portion of our revenues will continue to be derived from a limited number of customers. our customers are generally not contractually obligated to purchase from us. these customers make purchase decisions based on a combination of price, promotional support, product quality, consumer demand, customer service performance, their desired inventory levels, and other factors. changes in customers strategies, including a reduction in the number of brands they carry or a shift of shelf space to private label products, may adversely affect sales. customers also may respond to price increases by reducing distribution, resulting in reduced sales of our products. additionally, our customers may face financial or other difficulties that may impact their operations and their purchases from us, which could adversely affect our results of operations. a reduction in sales to one or more major customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we operate in the competitive food industry and continued demand for our products may be affected by changes in consumer preferences. we face competition across our product lines from other food companies with the primary methods and factors in competition being product quality, price, packaging, product innovation, nutritional value, convenience, customer service, advertising, and promotion. continued success is dependent on product innovation, the ability to secure and maintain adequate retail shelf space, and effective and sufficient trade merchandising, advertising, and marketing programs. some of our competitors have substantial financial, marketing, and other resources, and competition with them in our various markets and product lines could cause us to reduce prices, increase marketing or other expenditures, or lose category share. category share and growth could be adversely impacted if we are not successful in introducing new products. in order to generate future revenues and profits, we must continue to sell products that appeal to our customers and consumers. specifically, there are a number of trends in consumer preferences that may impact us and the food industry as a whole, including convenience, flavor variety, an emphasis on protein and snacking, and the desire for transparent product labeling and simple and natural ingredients. prolonged negative perceptions concerning the health implications of certain food products could influence consumer preferences and acceptance of some of our products and marketing programs. although we strive to respond to consumer preferences and social expectations, we may not be successful in these efforts. increasing public concern regarding health issues and failure to satisfy consumer preferences could decrease demand for certain of our products and adversely affect our profitability. 11 the success of our business depends substantially on consumer perceptions of our brands. we are the branded market leader in several categories both in the u.s. and canada. we believe that maintaining and continually enhancing the value of our brands is critical to the success of our business. brand value is based in large part on consumer perceptions. success in promoting and enhancing brand value depends in large part on our ability to provide high-quality products. brand value could diminish significantly as a result of a number of factors, such as if we fail to preserve the quality of our products, if we are perceived to act in an irresponsible manner, if the company or our brands otherwise receive negative publicity, if our brands fail to deliver a consistently positive consumer experience, or if our products become unavailable to consumers. the growing use of social and digital media by consumers increases the speed and extent that information and opinions can be shared. negative posts or comments about us or our brands or products on social or digital media could damage our brands and reputation. if our brand values are diminished, our revenues and operating results could be materially adversely affected. in addition, anything that harms the pillsbury , dunkin donuts , carnation , borden , douwe egberts , or cumberland brands could adversely affect the success of our exclusive licensing agreements with the owners of these brands. we could be subject to adverse publicity or claims from consumers. certain of our products contain caffeine and other ingredients, the health effects of which are the subject of public scrutiny, including the suggestion that consumption may have adverse health effects. an unfavorable report on the health effects of caffeine or other ingredients present in our products, product recalls, or negative publicity or litigation arising from other health risks could significantly reduce the demand for our products. we may also be subject to complaints from or litigation by consumers who allege food and beverage-related illness, or other quality, health, or operational concerns. adverse publicity resulting from such allegations could materially adversely affect us, regardless of whether such allegations are true or whether we are ultimately held liable. a lawsuit or claim could result in an adverse decision against us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our operations are subject to the general risks associated with acquisitions. specifically, we may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of the acquisition of big heart or those benefits may take longer to realize than expected. we may also encounter significant unexpected difficulties in integrating the big heart business. our stated long-term strategy is to own and market leading north american food brands sold in the center of the store while maintaining a global perspective. we have historically made strategic acquisitions of brands and businesses and intend to do so in the future in support of this strategy. if we are unable to complete acquisitions or to successfully integrate and develop acquired businesses, we could fail to achieve the anticipated synergies and cost savings, or the expected increases in revenues and operating results, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. in particular, our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition of big heart will depend, to a large extent, on our ability to integrate the big heart business into smucker. the combination of two independent businesses is a complex, costly, and time-consuming process. as a result, we will be required to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating big heart business practices and operations with our business practices and operations. the integration process may disrupt the businesses and, if implemented ineffectively or if impacted by unforeseen negative economic or market conditions or other factors, we may not realize the full anticipated benefits of the acquisition. our failure to meet the challenges involved in integrating the two businesses to realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition could cause 12 an interruption of, or a loss of momentum in, our activities and could adversely affect our results of operations. specifically, the difficulties of combining the operations of big heart with our business include, among others: the diversion of management attention to integration matters; difficulties in achieving anticipated cost savings, synergies, business opportunities, and growth prospects from combining the big heart business with our business; difficulties in the integration of operations and systems; difficulties in managing the expanded operations of a significantly larger and more complex company; challenges in keeping existing customers and obtaining new customers; challenges in attracting and retaining key personnel; unanticipated expenses resulting from disputes with third parties, such as the working capital dispute with del monte foods, inc.; and unanticipated liabilities, such as environmental liabilities resulting from contamination at our properties or those of third parties. weak financial performance, downgrades in our credit ratings, or disruptions in the financial markets may adversely affect our ability to access capital in the future. we may need new or additional financing in the future to conduct our operations, expand our business, or refinance existing indebtedness, which would be dependent upon our financial performance. any downgrade in our credit ratings, particularly our short-term rating, would likely impact the amount of commercial paper we could issue and increase our commercial paper borrowing costs. the liquidity of the overall capital markets and the state of the economy, including the food and beverage industry, may make credit and capital markets more difficult for us to access, even though we have an established revolving credit facility. from time to time, we have relied, and also may rely in the future, on access to financial markets as a source of liquidity for working capital requirements, acquisitions, and general corporate purposes. in particular, our access to funds under our revolving credit facility is dependent on the ability of the financial institutions that are parties to that facility to meet their funding commitments. the obligations of the financial institutions under our revolving credit facility are several and not joint and, as a result, a funding default by one or more institutions does not need to be made up by the others. in addition, long-term volatility and disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation of financial institutions, reduced alternatives, or failure of significant financial institutions could adversely affect our access to the liquidity needed for our businesses in the longer term. such disruptions could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for our business needs can be arranged. disruptions in the capital and credit markets could also result in higher interest rates on publicly issued debt securities and increased costs under credit facilities. continuation of these disruptions would increase our interest expense and capital costs and could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. our substantial debt obligations could restrict our operations and financial condition. as of april 30, 2015, we had approximately $6.2 billion of short-term borrowings and long-term debt. we may also incur additional indebtedness in the future. our substantial indebtedness could have adverse consequences, including: making it more difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations; increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic, regulatory, and industry conditions, and placing us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that are less leveraged; limiting our ability to compete and our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; 13 limiting our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, and general corporate or other purposes; and exposing us to greater interest rate risk to the extent that the interest rate on the applicable borrowings is variable. our debt service obligations will require us to use a portion of our operating cash flow to pay interest and principal on indebtedness instead of for other corporate purposes, including funding future expansion of our business and ongoing capital expenditures, which could impede our growth. if our operating cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to service our debt obligations, we may be forced to sell assets, seek additional equity or debt financing, or restructure our debt, which could harm our long-term business prospects. our failure to comply with the terms of any existing or future indebtedness could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debt. servicing our indebtedness will require a significant amount of cash. our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. our ability to make payments on, and to refinance, our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. this is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations, and we may not have available to us future borrowings in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. in these circumstances, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require make-whole payments and compliance with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. our ability to refinance our indebtedness or obtain additional financing would depend on, among other things, our financial condition at the time, restriction in the agreements governing our indebtedness, and the condition of the financial markets and the industry in which we operate. as a result, we may not be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. without this financing, we could be forced to sell assets to make up for any shortfall in our payment obligations under unfavorable circumstances. in addition, we may not be able to sell assets quickly enough or for sufficient amounts to enable us to meet our obligations. a material impairment in the carrying value of acquired goodwill or other intangible assets could negatively affect our consolidated operating results and net worth. a significant portion of our assets is goodwill and other intangible assets, the majority of which are not amortized but are reviewed at least annually for impairment. at april 30, 2015, the carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets totaled approximately $13.0 billion, compared to total assets of approximately $16.9 billion and total shareholders equity of approximately $7.1 billion. if the carrying value of these assets exceeds the current estimated fair value, the asset is considered impaired and this could result in a noncash charge to earnings. any such impairment charge would reduce earnings and could be material. events and conditions that could result in impairment include a sustained drop in the market price of our common shares, increased competition or loss of market share, obsolescence, or product claims that result in a significant loss of sales or profitability over the product life. as a result of the big heart acquisition this year, we recognized $2.9 billion of goodwill as of april 30, 2015, based on a preliminary valuation. we also recorded $1.5 billion of indefinite-lived intangible assets based on their estimated fair values on the acquisition date. since these assets were recently acquired and carrying value currently represents estimated fair value, they could be more susceptible to future impairment. a change to the assumptions regarding future performance of the pet food business, or a portion of it, or a change to other assumptions, could result in significant impairment losses in the future. 14 changes in tax, environmental, or other regulations and laws, or their application, or failure to comply with existing licensing, trade, and other regulations and laws could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. our operations are subject to various regulations and laws administered by federal, state, and local government agencies in the u.s., as well as to regulations and laws administered by government agencies in canada and other countries in which we have operations and our products are sold. in particular, the manufacturing, marketing, packaging, labeling, and distribution of food products are each subject to governmental regulation that is increasingly extensive, encompassing such matters as ingredients (including whether a product contains genetically modified ingredients), packaging, advertising, relations with distributors and retailers, health, safety, and the environment. additionally, we are routinely subject to new or modified tax and securities regulations, other laws and regulations, and accounting and reporting standards. in the u.s., we are required to comply with federal laws, such as the food, drug and cosmetic act, the food safety modernization act, the occupational safety and health act, the clean air act, the clean water act, the resource conservation and recovery act, laws governing equal employment opportunity, and various other federal statutes and regulations. we are also subject to various state and local statutes and regulations. for instance, the california safe drinking water and toxic enforcement act of 1986 (commonly referred to as proposition 65 ) requires that a specific warning appear on any product sold in the state of california that contains a substance listed by that state as having been found to cause cancer or birth defects. this law exposes all food and beverage producers to the possibility of having to provide warnings on their products. the detection of even a trace amount of a listed substance can subject an affected product to the requirement of a warning label. products containing listed substances that occur naturally or that are contributed to such products solely by a municipal water supply are generally exempt from the warning requirement. if we are required to add warning labels to any of our products or place warnings in certain locations where our products are sold as a result of proposition 65, sales of those products could suffer not only in those locations but elsewhere. complying with new regulations and laws, or changes to existing regulations and laws, or their application could increase our production costs or adversely affect our sales of certain products. in addition, our failure or inability to comply with applicable regulations and laws could subject us to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, recalls or seizures, as well as potential criminal sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. our operations in certain developing markets expose us to regulatory risks. in many countries outside of the u.s., particularly in those with developing economies, it may be common for others to engage in business practices prohibited by laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act or similar local anti-bribery or anti-corruption laws. these laws generally prohibit companies and their employees, contractors, or agents from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. failure to comply with these laws could subject us to civil and criminal penalties that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. changes in climate or legal, regulatory, or market measures to address climate change may negatively affect our business and operations. there is significant political and scientific concern that emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases may alter the composition of the global atmosphere in ways that are affecting and are expected to continue affecting the global climate. the emission of such greenhouse gases may have an adverse impact on global temperatures, weather patterns, and the frequency and severity of extreme weather and natural disasters. in the event that climate change has a negative effect on agricultural productivity, we may be subject to decreased availability or less favorable pricing for certain commodities that are necessary for our products, such as green 15 coffee, peanuts, edible oils, wheat, sweeteners, corn, milk, fruit, vegetables, cocoa, poultry meal, soybean meal, meat, and meat by-products. we may also be subjected to decreased availability or less favorable pricing for water as a result of such change, which could impact our manufacturing and distribution operations. in addition, natural disasters and extreme weather conditions may disrupt the productivity of our facilities or the operation of our supply chain. increasing concern over climate change also may result in more regulatory requirements to reduce or mitigate the effects of greenhouse gases. in the event that such regulations are enacted and are more rigorous than existing regulations, we may experience significant increases in costs of operation and delivery. in particular, increased regulation of utility providers, fuel emissions, or suppliers could substantially increase our operating, distribution, or supply chain costs. we could also face increased costs related to defending and resolving legal claims and other litigation related to climate change. as a result, climate change could negatively affect our results of operations, cash flows, or financial position. if our information technology systems fail to perform adequately or we are unable to protect such information technology systems against data corruption, cyber-based attacks, or network security breaches, our operations could be disrupted, and we may suffer financial damage or loss because of lost or misappropriated information. we rely on information technology networks and systems, including the internet, to process, transmit, and store electronic information. in particular, we depend on our information technology infrastructure to effectively manage our business data, supply chain, logistics, finance, and other business processes and for digital marketing activities and electronic communications between company personnel and our customers and suppliers. if we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build, sustain, and protect an appropriate technology infrastructure, or we do not effectively implement system upgrades, our business or financial results could be negatively impacted. security breaches or system failures of our infrastructure, whether due to attacks by hackers, employee error, or other causes, can create system disruptions, shutdowns, or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. if we are unable to prevent such breaches or failures, our operations could be disrupted, or we may suffer financial damage or loss because of lost or misappropriated information. in addition, we have outsourced several information technology support services and administrative functions, including accounts payable processing, benefit plan administration, and other functions, to third-party service providers, and may outsource other functions in the future to achieve cost savings and efficiencies. if the service providers to which we outsource these functions do not perform effectively, we may not be able to achieve the expected cost savings and may have to incur additional costs to correct errors made by such service providers. depending on the function involved, such errors may also lead to business disruption, processing inefficiencies, the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach, the loss of sensitive data through security breach, or otherwise. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk are incorporated herein by reference to 20 the information set forth in our 2015 annual report to shareholders under the caption derivative financial instruments and market risk on pages 40 and 41.