risk factors 14 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 44risk factors 16 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 48quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information required by this item may be found on the following pages of the company annual report under management discussion analysis of results of operations and financial condition and in notes to consolidated financial statements: market risk page foreign currency exchange rate risk 34-36 commodity price risk 36-37 interest rate risk 37-38 equity price risk 38risk factors risk factors in addition to the risk factors discussed elsewhere in this report, the company cautions that the following "risk factors" could affect its actual results in the future. 1. competition competition in the contract drilling business the contract drilling business is highly competitive. competition in contract drilling involves such factors as price, rig availability, efficiency, condition of equipment, reputation, operating safety, and customer relations. competition is primarily on a regional basis and may vary significantly by region at any particular time. land drilling rigs can be readily moved from one region to another in response to changes in levels of activity, and an oversupply of rigs in any region may result, leading to increased price competition. although many contracts for drilling services are awarded based solely on price, the company has been successful in establishing long-term relationships with certain customers which have allowed the company to secure drilling work even though the company may not have been the lowest bidder for such work. the company has continued to attempt to differentiate its services based upon its engineering design expertise, operational efficiency, and safety and environmental awareness. this strategy is less effective when lower demand for drilling services intensifies price competition and makes it more difficult or impossible to compete on any basis other than price. also, future improvements in operational efficiency and safety by the company's competitors could negatively affect the company's ability to differentiate its services. competition in the real estate business the company has numerous competitors in the multi-tenant leasing business. the size and financial capacity of these competitors range from one property sole proprietors to large international corporations. the primary competitive factors include price, location, and configuration of space. the company's competitive position is enhanced by the location of its properties, its financial capability and the long-term 6 ownership of its properties. however, many competitors have financial resources greater than the company and have more contemporary facilities. 2. operating and weather risks the drilling operations of the company are subject to the many hazards inherent in the business, including inclement weather, blowouts and well fires. these hazards could cause personal injury, suspend drilling operations, seriously damage or destroy the equipment involved, and cause substantial damage to producing formations and the surrounding areas. the company's offshore platform drilling operations are also subject to potentially greater environmental liability, adverse sea conditions and platform damage or destruction due to collision with aircraft or marine vessels. specifically, the company operates several platform rigs in the gulf of mexico. the gulf of mexico experiences hurricanes and other extreme weather conditions on a frequent basis. damage caused by high winds and turbulent seas could potentially curtail operations on such platform rigs for significant periods of time until the damage can be repaired. moreover, even if the company's platform rigs are not directly damaged by such storms, the company may experience disruptions in operations due to damage to customer platforms and other related facilities in the area. until 2005, the company's platform operation had not been materially affected by adverse weather. in august of 2005, platform rig 201 sustained significant hurricane damage. this rig is not expected to return to normal drilling operations until fiscal 2007. the company's new-build rig assembly facility is located near the houston, texas ship channel. also, the company's principal fabricator and other vendors are located in the gulf coast region. due to their location, these facilities are exposed to potentially greater hurricane damage. 3. fixed term contract risk fixed term drilling contracts customarily provide for termination at the election of the customer, with an "early termination payment" to be paid to the company if a contract is terminated prior to the expiration of the fixed term. however, under certain limited circumstances, such as destruction of a drilling rig, bankruptcy, sustained unacceptable performance by the company, or late delivery of a rig beyond certain grace and/or liquidated damage periods, no early termination payment would be paid to the company. 4. indemnification and insurance coverage the company has insurance coverage for comprehensive general liability, automobile liability, worker's compensation, employer's liability, and property damage. generally, deductibles are $1 million or $2 million per occurrence, depending on whether a claim occurs inside or outside of the united states. the company maintains certain other insurance coverages with $5 million deductibles. insurance is purchased over these deductibles to reduce the company's exposure to catastrophic events. in fiscal 2006, the company obtained property insurance for 85 percent of the aggregate estimated replacement cost of its rigs in excess of a $1 million deductible. if loss levels exceed a set percentage of excess property premium in fiscal 2006, then the company would share in losses up to a maximum of $5 million. the company self-insured the remaining 15 percent of such rig value including deductibles. no insurance is carried against loss of earnings or business interruption. the company is unable to obtain significant amounts of insurance to cover risks of underground reservoir damage; however, the company is generally indemnified under its drilling contracts from this risk. the company retains a significant portion of its expected losses under its worker's compensation, general, and automobile liability programs. the company records estimates for incurred outstanding liabilities for unresolved worker's compensation, general liability claims and for claims that are incurred but not reported. estimates are based on historic experience and statistical methods that the company believes are reliable. nonetheless, insurance estimates include certain assumptions and management judgments regarding the frequency and severity of claims, claim development, and settlement practices. unanticipated changes in these factors may produce materially different amounts of expense that would be reported under these programs. the majority of the company's insurance has been purchased through fiscal 2007. multiple hurricanes in the gulf of mexico during august and september of 2005 continued to have a severe impact on the availability and price of the company's rig property coverage for 2007. as a result, the company 7 transferred only 80 percent of its rig property exposure in excess of a $1 million per occurrence deductible to third party insurers. insurance coverage for named storms in the gulf of mexico is also limited to a net aggregate of $60 million. no assurance can be given that all or a portion of the company's coverage will not be cancelled during fiscal 2007 or that insurance coverage will continue to be available at rates considered reasonable. no assurance can be given that the company's insurance and indemnification arrangements will adequately protect it against all liabilities that could result from the hazards of its drilling operations. incurring a liability for which the company is not fully insured or indemnified could materially affect the company's results of operations. 5. availability of equipment and supplies the contract drilling business is highly cyclical. during periods of increased demand for contract drilling services, delays in delivery and shortages of drilling equipment and supplies can occur. these risks are intensified during periods when the industry experiences significant new drilling rig construction or refurbishment. 6. limited number of vendors certain key rig components are either purchased from or fabricated by a single or limited number of vendors, and the company has no long-term contracts with many of these vendors. shortages could occur in these essential components due to an interruption of supply or increased demands in the industry. if the company was unable to procure certain of such rig components, it would be required to reduce its rig construction or other operations, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. if the company's principal fabricator, located on the texas gulf coast, was unable or unwilling to continue fabricating rig components, then the company would have to transfer this work to other acceptable fabricators. this transfer could result in significant delay in the completion of new flexrigs. any significant interruption in the fabrication of rig components could have a material adverse impact on the company's business, financial condition, and results of operations. 7. thinly capitalized vendors certain key rig components are obtained from vendors that are, in some cases, thinly capitalized, independent companies that generate significant portions of their business from the company or from a small group of companies in the energy industry. these vendors may be disproportionately affected by any loss of business or by any downturn in the energy industry. therefore, disruptions in rig component delivery may occur, and such disruptions and terminations could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition, or results of operations. 8. volatility of oil and gas prices the company's operations can be materially affected by low oil and gas prices. the company believes that any significant reduction in oil and gas prices could depress the level of exploration and production activity and result in a corresponding decline in demand for the company's services. worldwide military, political and economic events, including initiatives by the organization of petroleum exporting countries, may affect both the demand for, and the supply of, oil and gas. fluctuations during the last few years in the demand and supply of oil and gas have contributed to, and are likely to continue to contribute to, price volatility. any prolonged reduction in demand for the company's services could have a material and adverse effect on the company. 9. international uncertainties and local laws international operations are subject to certain political, economic, and other uncertainties not encountered in u.s. operations, including increased risks of terrorism, kidnapping of employees, expropriation of equipment as well as expropriation of a particular oil company operator's property and drilling rights, taxation policies, foreign exchange restrictions, currency rate fluctuations, and general hazards associated with foreign sovereignty over certain areas in which operations are conducted. there can be no assurance that there will not be changes in local laws, regulations, and administrative requirements or the interpretation thereof which could have a material adverse effect on the profitability of the company's operations or on the ability of the company to continue operations in certain areas. 8 because of the impact of local laws, the company's future operations in certain areas may be conducted through entities in which local citizens own interests and through entities (including joint ventures) in which the company holds only a minority interest, or pursuant to arrangements under which the company conducts operations under contract to local entities. while the company believes that neither operating through such entities nor pursuant to such arrangements would have a material adverse effect on the company's operations or revenues, there can be no assurance that the company will in all cases be able to structure or restructure its operations to conform to local law (or the administration thereof) on terms acceptable to the company. venezuela continues to experience significant political, economic and social instability. in the event that extended labor strikes occur or turmoil increases, the company could experience shortages in labor and/or material and supplies necessary to operate some or all of its venezuelan drilling rigs, thereby causing an adverse effect on the company. during the mid-1970s, the venezuelan government nationalized the exploration and production business. at the present time it appears the venezuelan government will not nationalize the contract drilling business. any such nationalization could result in the company's loss of all or a portion of its assets and business in venezuela. although the company attempts to minimize the potential impact of such risks by operating in more than one geographical area, during fiscal 2006, approximately 21 percent of the company's consolidated operating revenues were generated from the international contract drilling business. approximately 91 percent of the international operating revenues were from operations in south america and approximately 76 percent of south american operating revenues were from venezuela and ecuador. 10. currency risk general contracts for work in foreign countries generally provide for payment in united states dollars, except for amounts required to meet local expenses. however, government owned petroleum companies are more frequently requesting that a greater proportion of these payments be made in local currencies. based upon current information, the company believes that exposure to potential losses from currency devaluation is minimal in colombia, bolivia, equatorial guinea, chile, and tunisia. in those countries, all receivables and payments are currently in u.s. dollars. cash balances are kept at a minimum which assists in reducing exposure. argentina in 2002, argentina suffered a 60 percent devaluation of the peso. as a consequence, the company secured agreements with its customers that limited the portion of the accounts receivable that was paid in pesos with the balance of such accounts receivable paid in u.s. dollars. the company experienced $.3 million in argentina currency losses in fiscal 2006. venezuela the company is exposed to risks of currency devaluation in venezuela primarily as a result of bolivar receivable balances and bolivar cash balances. in venezuela, approximately 60 percent of the company's billings are in u.s. dollars and 40 percent are in the local currency, the bolivar. the significance of this arrangement is that even though the dollar-based invoices may be paid in bolivares, the company, historically, has usually been able to convert the bolivares into u.s. dollars in a timely manner and thus avoid, in large measure, devaluation losses pertaining to the dollar-based invoices. however, this arrangement is effective only in the absence of exchange controls. in january 2003, the venezuelan government put into effect exchange controls that fixed the exchange rate and also prohibited the company, as well as other companies, from converting the bolivar into u.s. dollars through the central bank. as part of the exchange controls regulation, the venezuelan government provided a mechanism by which companies could request conversion of bolivares into u.s. dollars. in compliance with such regulations, the company, in october of 2003, submitted a request to the venezuelan government seeking permission to dividend earnings, which would convert 14 billion bolivares into u.s. dollars. in january 2004, the venezuelan government approved the company's request to convert bolivar cash balances to u.s. 9 dollars and allowed the remittance of $8.8 million u.s. dollars as dividends to the u.s. based parent. this was the first dividend remitted under the new regulation. on january 16, 2006, a dividend of $6.5 million u.s. dollars was remitted to the u.s. based parent. as a consequence, the company's exposure to currency devaluation has been reduced by these amounts. on august 18, 2006, the company made application with the venezuelan government requesting the approval to convert bolivar cash balances to u.s. dollars. upon approval from the venezuelan government, the company's venezuelan subsidiary will remit approximately $9.3 million as a dividend to its u.s. based parent, thus reducing the company's exposure to currency devaluation. as stated above, the company is exposed to risks of currency devaluation in venezuela primarily as a result of bolivar receivable balances and bolivar cash balances. as a result of a 12 percent devaluation of the bolivar during fiscal 2005, the company experienced total devaluation losses of $0.6 million during that same period. past devaluation losses may not be reflective of the actual potential for future devaluation losses. even though venezuela continues to operate under the exchange controls in place and the venezuelan bolivar exchange rate has remained fixed at 2150 bolivares to one u.s. dollar since the devaluation in march 2005, the exact amount and timing of devaluation is uncertain. while the company is unable to predict future devaluation in venezuela, if fiscal 2007 activity levels are similar to fiscal 2006, and if a 10 percent to 20 percent devaluation were to occur, the company could experience potential currency devaluation losses ranging from approximately $1.5 million to $2.8 million. in late august 2003, the venezuelan state petroleum company agreed, on a prospective basis, to pay a portion of the company's dollar-based invoices in u.s. dollars. were this agreement to end, the company would again receive these payments in bolivares and thus increase bolivar cash balances and exposure to devaluation. 11. increased receivables in venezuela the company derives its revenue in venezuela from pdvsa, the venezuelan state-owned petroleum company. at the end of fiscal 2006, the company had a net receivable from pdvsa of approximately $45 million, of which approximately $16 million was 90 days old or older. at december 1, 2006, such receivable balance had increased to approximately $66 million, of which approximately $40 million was 90 days old or older. the aggregate receivable amount of $66 million approximates the historical high for the company's receivables in venezuela. the company continues to communicate with pdvsa regarding the settlement of the outstanding receivables. while the collection of the receivables is difficult and time consuming due to pdvsa policies and procedures, the company, at this time, has no reason to believe the amounts will not be paid. historically, pdvsa payments on accounts receivable have, by traditional business measurements, been slower than those of other foreign customers of the company. however, the failure of pdvsa to make payments on outstanding receivables, or a continued increase in its delay in making payments could have a material adverse effect on the company's financial condition and results of operations. in order to establish a source of local currency to meet current obligations in venezuela bolivares, the company is borrowing in the form of short-term notes from two local banks in venezuela at the market interest rates designated by the banks. 12. government regulation and environmental risks many aspects of the company's operations are subject to government regulation, including those relating to drilling practices and methods and the level of taxation. in addition, the united states and various other countries have environmental regulations which affect drilling operations. drilling contractors may be liable for damages resulting from pollution. under united states regulations, drilling contractors must establish financial responsibility to cover potential liability for pollution of offshore waters. generally, the company is indemnified under drilling contracts from liability arising from pollution, except in certain cases of surface pollution. however, the enforceability of indemnification provisions in foreign countries may be questionable. the company believes that it is in substantial compliance with all legislation and regulations affecting its operations in the drilling of oil and gas wells and in controlling the discharge of wastes. to date, compliance has not materially affected the capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position of the 10 company, although these measures may add to the costs of drilling operations. additional legislation or regulation may reasonably be anticipated, and the effect thereof on operations cannot be predicted. 13. interest rate risk the company has a $200 million intermediate-term unsecured debt obligation with staged maturities from august 2007 to august 2014, with varying fixed interest rates for each maturity series. there was $200 million outstanding at september 30, 2006, of which $25 million is due in 2007 and the remaining $175 million is due 2009 through 2014. the average interest rate during the next four years on this debt is 6.4 percent, after which it increases to 6.5 percent. the fair value of this debt at september 30, 2006 was approximately $209 million. at september 30, 2006, the company had in place a committed unsecured line of credit totaling $50 million with no outstanding borrowings. the company, as of september 30, 2006, had letters of credit totaling $16.4 million outstanding against such line of credit. the company's line of credit interest rate is based on libor plus 87.5 to 112.5 basis points or prime minus 175 to 150 basis points based on the company's ebitda to net debt ratio. as the company draws on this line of credit, it is subject to the interest rates prevailing during the term at which the company had outstanding borrowings. in december 2006, the company expects to enter into a five-year $400 million senior unsecured credit facility. borrowings under this credit facility will be subject to floating interest rates. if the company enters into this senior unsecured credit facility then the existing $50 million unsecured line of credit will be reduced to $5 million. interest rates could rise for various reasons in the future and increase the company's total interest expense, depending upon the amount borrowed against the credit line. 14. equity price risk at september 30, 2006, the company had a portfolio of available-for-sale securities with a total market value of $336.1 million. these securities are subject to a wide variety of market-related risks that could substantially reduce or increase the market value of the company's holdings. except for the company's holdings in atwood oceanics, inc. and investments in limited partnerships carried at cost, the portfolio is recorded at fair value on its balance sheet with changes in unrealized after-tax value reflected in the equity section of its balance sheet. any reduction in market value would have an impact on the company's debt ratio and financial strength. 15. reliance on small number of customers in fiscal 2006, the company received approximately 57 percent of its consolidated operating revenues from the company's ten largest contract drilling customers and approximately 25 percent of its consolidated operating revenues from the company's three largest customers (including their affiliates). the company believes that its relationship with all of these customers is good; however, the loss of one or more of its larger customers would have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations. 16. key personnel the company utilizes highly skilled personnel in operating and supporting its businesses. in times of high utilization, it can be difficult to find qualified individuals. although to date the company's operations have not been materially affected by competition for personnel, an inability to obtain a sufficient number of qualified personnel could materially impact the company's results of operations. 17. changes in technologies although the company takes measures to ensure that it uses advanced oil and natural gas drilling technology, changes in technology or improvements in competitors' equipment could make the company's equipment less competitive or require significant capital investments to keep its equipment competitive. 18. concentration of credit the concentration of the company's customers in the energy industry could cause them to be similarly affected by changes in industry conditions and, as a result, could impact the company's exposure to credit risk. the company cannot offer assurances that losses due to uncollectible receivables will be consistent with expectations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information required by this item may be found under the caption "risk factors" beginning on page 6 of this report and on, and is incorporated by reference to, the following pages of the company's annual report (exhibit 13 to this form 10-k) under management's discussion &amp; analysis of financial condition and results of operations and in notes to consolidated financial statements: market risk page foreign currency exchange rate risk 34-35 credit risk 35-36 commodity price risk 36-37 interest rate risk 37 equity price risk 38risk factors 7 risk factors in addition to the risk factors discussed elsewhere in this report, the company cautions that the following "risk factors" could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. 1. competition competition in the contract drilling business the contract drilling business is highly competitive. competition in contract drilling involves such factors as price, rig availability, efficiency, condition and type of equipment, reputation, operating safety, and customer relations. competition is primarily on a regional basis and may vary significantly by region at any particular time. land drilling rigs can be readily moved from one region to another in response to changes in levels of activity, and an oversupply of rigs in any region may result, leading to increased price competition. although many contracts for drilling services are awarded based solely on price, the company has been successful in establishing long-term relationships with certain customers which have allowed the company to secure drilling work even though the company may not have been the lowest bidder for such work. the company has continued to attempt to differentiate its services based upon its engineering design expertise, operational efficiency, safety and environmental awareness. this strategy is less effective when lower demand for drilling services intensifies price competition and makes it more difficult or impossible to compete on any basis other than price. also, future improvements in operational efficiency and safety by the company's competitors could negatively affect the company's ability to differentiate its services. competition in the real estate business the company has numerous competitors in the multi-tenant leasing business. the size and financial capacity of these competitors range from one property sole proprietors to large international corporations. the primary competitive factors include price, location, and configuration of space. the company's competitive position is enhanced by the location of its properties, its financial capability and the long-term ownership of its properties. however, many competitors have financial resources greater than the company's and have more contemporary facilities. 2. operating and weather risks the drilling operations of the company are subject to the many hazards inherent in the business, including inclement weather, blowouts and well fires. these hazards could cause personal injury, suspend drilling operations, seriously damage or destroy the equipment involved, and cause substantial damage to producing formations and the surrounding areas. the company's offshore platform drilling operations are also subject to potentially greater environmental liability, adverse sea conditions and platform damage or destruction due to collision with aircraft or marine vessels. specifically, the company operates several platform rigs in the gulf of mexico. the gulf of mexico experiences hurricanes and other extreme weather conditions on a frequent basis. damage caused by high winds and turbulent seas could potentially curtail operations on such platform rigs for significant periods of time until the damage can be repaired. moreover, even if the company's platform rigs are not directly damaged by such storms, the company may experience disruptions in operations due to damage to customer platforms and other related facilities in the area. until 2005, the company's platform operation had not been materially affected by adverse weather. in august of 2005, platform rig 201 sustained significant hurricane damage. this rig returned to normal drilling operations in fiscal 2007. the company's new-build rig assembly facility is located near the houston, texas ship channel. also, the company's principal fabricator and other vendors are located in the gulf coast region. due to their location, these facilities are exposed to potentially greater hurricane damage. 3. fixed term contract risk fixed term drilling contracts customarily provide for termination at the election of the customer, with an "early termination payment" to be paid to the company if a contract is terminated prior to the expiration of the fixed term. however, under certain limited circumstances, such as destruction of a drilling 7 rig, bankruptcy, sustained unacceptable performance by the company, or delivery of a rig beyond certain grace and/or liquidated damage periods, no early termination payment would be paid to the company. 4. indemnification and insurance coverage insurance coverage for "named storms" in the gulf of mexico has been limited for the past two years. the company purchased an aggregate limit of $75 million of wind storm coverage and self-insures 20 percent of that limit as well as a $2.5 million deductible. additionally, the company obtained rig property insurance for 80 percent of the aggregate estimated replacement cost of its rigs in excess of a $1 million per occurrence deductible. the company self insures the remaining 20 percent of such rig value as well as the deductible. no insurance is carried against loss of earnings or business interruption. the company is unable to obtain significant amounts of insurance to cover risks of underground reservoir damage; however, the company is generally indemnified under its drilling contracts from this risk. the company has insurance coverage for comprehensive general liability, automobile liability, worker's compensation, and employer's liability. generally, casualty deductibles are $1 million or $2 million per occurrence, depending on whether a claim occurs inside or outside of the united states. the company maintains certain other insurance coverages with deductibles as high as $5 million. insurance is purchased over deductibles to reduce the company's exposure to catastrophic events. the company retains a significant portion of its expected losses under its worker's compensation, general liability, and automobile liability programs. the company records estimates for incurred outstanding liabilities for unresolved worker's compensation, general liability, and for claims that are incurred but not reported. estimates are based on historic experience and statistical methods that the company believes are reliable. nonetheless, insurance estimates include certain assumptions and management judgments regarding the frequency and severity of claims, claim development, and settlement practices. unanticipated changes in these factors may produce materially different amounts of expense that would be reported under these programs. 5. availability of equipment and supplies the contract drilling business is highly cyclical. during periods of increased demand for contract drilling services, delays in delivery and shortages of drilling equipment and supplies can occur. these risks are intensified during periods when the industry experiences significant new drilling rig construction or refurbishment. 6. limited number of vendors certain key rig components are either purchased from or fabricated by a single or limited number of vendors, and the company has no long-term contracts with many of these vendors. shortages could occur in these essential components due to an interruption of supply or increased demands in the industry. if the company was unable to procure certain of such rig components, it would be required to reduce its rig construction or other operations, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. if the company's principal fabricator, located on the texas gulf coast, was unable or unwilling to continue fabricating rig components, then the company would have to transfer this work to other acceptable fabricators. this transfer could result in significant delay in the completion of new flexrigs. any significant interruption in the fabrication of rig components could have a material adverse impact on the company's business, financial condition, and results of operations. 7. thinly capitalized vendors certain key rig components are obtained from vendors that are, in some cases, thinly capitalized, independent companies that generate significant portions of their business from the company or from a small group of companies in the energy industry. these vendors may be disproportionately affected by any loss of business or by any downturn in the energy industry. therefore, disruptions in rig component delivery may occur, and such disruptions and terminations could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition, or results of operations. 8. volatility of oil and gas prices the company's operations can be materially affected by low oil and gas prices. the company believes that any significant reduction in oil and gas prices could depress the level of exploration and production activity and result in a corresponding decline in demand for the company's services. worldwide military, 8 political and economic events, including initiatives by the organization of petroleum exporting countries, may affect both the demand for, and the supply of, oil and gas. fluctuations during the last few years in the demand and supply of oil and gas have contributed to, and are likely to continue to contribute to, price volatility. any prolonged reduction in demand for the company's services could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition or results of operations. 9. international uncertainties and local laws international operations are subject to certain political, economic, and other uncertainties not encountered in u.s. operations, including increased risks of terrorism, kidnapping of employees, expropriation of equipment as well as expropriation of a particular oil company operator's property and drilling rights, taxation policies, foreign exchange restrictions, currency rate fluctuations, and general hazards associated with foreign sovereignty over certain areas in which operations are conducted. there can be no assurance that there will not be changes in local laws, regulations, and administrative requirements or the interpretation thereof which could have a material adverse effect on the profitability of the company's operations or on the ability of the company to continue operations in certain areas. because of the impact of local laws, the company's future operations in certain areas may be conducted through entities in which local citizens own interests and through entities (including joint ventures) in which the company holds only a minority interest, or pursuant to arrangements under which the company conducts operations under contract to local entities. while the company believes that neither operating through such entities nor pursuant to such arrangements would have a material adverse effect on the company's operations or revenues, there can be no assurance that the company will in all cases be able to structure or restructure its operations to conform to local law (or the administration thereof) on terms acceptable to the company. venezuela continues to experience significant political, economic and social instability. in the event that extended labor strikes occur or turmoil increases, the company could experience shortages in labor and/or material and supplies necessary to operate some or all of its venezuelan drilling rigs, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition or results of operations. during the mid-1970s, the venezuelan government nationalized the exploration and production business. at the present time it appears the venezuelan government will not nationalize the contract drilling business. any such nationalization could result in the company's loss of all or a portion of its assets and business in venezuela. although the company attempts to minimize the potential impact of such risks by operating in more than one geographical area, during fiscal 2007, approximately 20 percent of the company's consolidated operating revenues were generated from the international contract drilling business. approximately 95 percent of the international operating revenues were from operations in south america and approximately 73 percent of south american operating revenues were from venezuela and ecuador. 10. currency risk general contracts for work in foreign countries generally provide for payment in united states dollars, except for amounts required to meet local expenses. however, government owned petroleum companies are more frequently requesting that a greater proportion of these payments be made in local currencies. based upon current information, the company believes that exposure to potential losses from currency devaluation is immaterial in colombia, bolivia, equatorial guinea, chile, and tunisia. in those countries, all receivables and payments are currently in u.s. dollars. cash balances are kept at an insignificant level which assists in reducing exposure. argentina in 2002, argentina suffered a 60 percent devaluation of the peso. as a consequence, the company secured agreements with its customers that limited the portion of the accounts receivable that was paid in pesos with the balance of such accounts receivable paid in u.s. dollars. the exchange rate between the u.s. dollar and the argentine peso has stayed within a narrow range for the past four years and in fiscal 2007 the company experienced an immaterial currency loss. 9 venezuela the company is exposed to risks of currency devaluation in venezuela primarily as a result of bolivar receivable balances and bolivar cash balances. in venezuela, approximately 60 percent of the company's billings are in u.s. dollars and 40 percent are in the local currency, the bolivar. the significance of this arrangement is that even though the dollar-based invoices may be paid in bolivares, the company, historically, has usually been able to convert the bolivares into u.s. dollars in a timely manner and thus avoid, in large measure, devaluation losses pertaining to the dollar-based invoices paid in bolivares. however, this arrangement is effective only in the absence of exchange controls. in january 2003, the venezuelan government put into effect exchange controls that fixed the exchange rate and also prohibited the company, as well as other companies, from converting the bolivar into u.s. dollars through the central bank. as part of the exchange controls regulation, the venezuelan government provided a mechanism by which companies could request conversion of bolivares into u.s. dollars. in compliance with such regulations, the company, in october of 2003, submitted a request to the venezuelan government seeking permission to dividend earnings, which would convert 14 billion bolivares into u.s. dollars. in january 2004, the venezuelan government approved the company's request to convert bolivar cash balances to u.s. dollars and allowed the remittance of $8.8 million u.s. dollars as dividends to the u.s. based parent. this was the first dividend remitted under the new regulation. on january 16, 2006, a dividend of $6.5 million u.s. dollars was remitted to the u.s. based parent. on august 18, 2006, the company applied for a $9.3 million dividend. the venezuelan government subsequently approved $7.2 million of this dividend and on march 6, 2007, the $7.2 million was paid to the u.s. based parent. as a consequence, the company's exposure to currency devaluation was reduced by these amounts. on june 7, 2007, the company began the process to make application with the venezuelan government requesting the approval to convert bolivar cash balances to u.s. dollars. upon approval from the venezuelan government, the company's venezuelan subsidiary will remit approximately $8.3 million as a dividend to its u.s. based parent, thus reducing the company's exposure to currency devaluation. while the company has been successful in obtaining government approval for conversion of bolivares to u.s. dollars, there is no guarantee that future conversion to u.s. dollars will be permitted. in the event that conversion to u.s. dollars would be prohibited, then bolivar cash balances would increase and expose the company to increased risk of devaluation. as stated above, the company is exposed to risks of currency devaluation in venezuela primarily as a result of bolivar receivable balances and bolivar cash balances. as a result of a 12 percent devaluation of the bolivar during fiscal 2005, the company experienced total devaluation losses of $0.6 million during that same period. past devaluation losses may not be reflective of the actual potential for future devaluation losses. even though venezuela continues to operate under the exchange controls in place and the venezuelan bolivar exchange rate has remained fixed at 2150 bolivares to one u.s. dollar since the devaluation in march 2005, the exact amount and timing of devaluation is uncertain. at september 30, 2007, the company had a $25.6 million cash balance denominated in bolivares exposed to the risk of currency devaluation. while the company is unable to predict future devaluation in venezuela, if fiscal 2008 activity levels are similar to fiscal 2007, and if a 10 percent to 20 percent devaluation were to occur, the company could experience potential currency devaluation losses ranging from approximately $3.5 million to $6.4 million. 11. increased receivables in venezuela the company derives its revenue in venezuela from pdvsa, the venezuelan state-owned petroleum company. at the end of fiscal 2007, the company had a net receivable from pdvsa of approximately $49.7 million, of which approximately $12.0 million was 90 days old or older. at november 1, 2007, such receivable balance had increased to approximately $50.3 million, of which approximately $14.4 million was 90 days old or older. the company continues to communicate with pdvsa regarding the settlement of the outstanding receivables. while the collection of the receivables is difficult and time consuming due to pdvsa policies and procedures, the company, at this time, has no reason to believe the amounts will not be paid. historically, 10 pdvsa payments on accounts receivable have, by traditional business measurements, been slower than those of other foreign customers of the company. however, the failure of pdvsa to make payments on outstanding receivables, or a continued increase in its delay in making payments could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. 12. government regulation and environmental risks many aspects of the company's operations are subject to government regulation, including those relating to drilling practices and methods and the level of taxation. in addition, the united states and various other countries have environmental regulations which affect drilling operations. drilling contractors may be liable for damages resulting from pollution. under united states regulations, drilling contractors must establish financial responsibility to cover potential liability for pollution of offshore waters. generally, the company is indemnified under drilling contracts from liability arising from pollution, except in certain cases of surface pollution. however, the enforceability of indemnification provisions in foreign countries may be questionable. the company believes that it is in substantial compliance with all legislation and regulations affecting its operations in the drilling of oil and gas wells and in controlling the discharge of wastes. to date, compliance has not materially affected the capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position of the company, although these measures may add to the costs of drilling operations. additional legislation or regulation may reasonably be anticipated, and the effect thereof on operations cannot be predicted. 13. interest rate risk at september 30, 2007, the company had outstanding, $175 million intermediate-term unsecured debt with staged maturities from august 2009 to august 2014, with varying fixed interest rates for each maturity series. the average interest rate during the next four years on this debt is 6.5 percent, after which it increases to 6.6 percent. the fair value of this debt at september 30, 2007 was approximately $182 million. in december 2006, the company entered into an agreement for a five-year $400 million senior unsecured credit facility. the company had $270 million borrowed and two letters of credit totaling $20.9 million outstanding against the facility at september 30, 2007. the interest rate on the borrowings is based on a spread over libor and the company pays a commitment fee based on the unused balance of the facility. the spread over libor as well as the commitment fee is determined according to a scale based on a ratio of the company's total debt to total capitalization. the company also has the option to borrow at the prime rate for maturities of less than 30 days. also in december 2006, the company entered into an agreement with a single bank to amend and restate the previous unsecured line of credit from $50 million to $5 million. the interest rate on borrowings is equal to the prime rate minus 1.75%. at september 30, 2007, the company had no outstanding borrowings against the credit line. interest rates could rise for various reasons in the future and increase the company's total interest expense, depending upon the amount borrowed against the credit line. 14. equity price risk at september 30, 2007, the company had a portfolio of securities with a total market value of $457.5 million. these securities are subject to a wide variety of market-related risks that could substantially reduce or increase the market value of the company's holdings. except for the company's holdings in atwood oceanics, inc. and investments in limited partnerships carried at cost, the portfolio is recorded at fair value on its balance sheet with changes in unrealized after-tax value reflected in the equity section of its balance sheet. any reduction in market value would have an impact on the company's debt ratio and financial strength. 15. reliance on small number of customers in fiscal 2007, the company received approximately 55 percent of its consolidated operating revenues from the company's ten largest contract drilling customers and approximately 25 percent of its consolidated operating revenues from the company's three largest customers (including their affiliates). the company believes that its relationship with all of these customers is good; however, the loss of one or more of its 11 larger customers would have a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition or results of operations. 16. key personnel the company utilizes highly skilled personnel in operating and supporting its businesses. in times of high utilization, it can be difficult to find qualified individuals. although to date the company's operations have not been materially affected by competition for personnel, an inability to obtain a sufficient number of qualified personnel could materially impact the company's business, financial condition or results of operations. 17. changes in technologies although the company takes measures to ensure that it uses advanced oil and natural gas drilling technology, changes in technology or improvements in competitors' equipment could make the company's equipment less competitive or require significant capital investments to keep its equipment competitive. 18. concentration of credit the concentration of the company's customers in the energy industry could cause them to be similarly affected by changes in industry conditions and, as a result, could impact the company's exposure to credit risk. the company cannot offer assurances that losses due to uncollectible receivables will be consistent with expectations. 12 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 20 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information required by this item may be found under the caption "risk factors" beginning on page 7 of this report and on, and is incorporated by reference to, the following pages of the company's annual 20 report (exhibit 13 to this form 10-k) under management's discussion &amp; analysis of financial condition and results of operations and in notes to consolidated financial statements: market risk page foreign currency exchange rate risk 35-37 commodity price risk 37-38 interest rate risk 38-39 equity price risk 39risk factors 5 risk factors." 3 table of contents the following table sets forth the total backlog by reportable segment as of october 31, 2008 and 2007, and the percentage of the october 31, 2008 backlog not reasonably expected to be filled in fiscal 2009: total backlog revenue percentage not reasonably expected to be filled in fiscal 2009 reportable segment 10/31/2008 10/31/2007 (in millions) u.s. land $ 2,876 $ 1,696 64.1% offshore 199 234 75.1% international 299 39 78.4% $ 3,374 $ 1,969 u.s. land drilling at the end of september 2008, 2007 and 2006, the company had 185, 157 and 113 respectively, of its land rigs available for work in the united states. the total number of rigs at the end of fiscal 2008 increased by a net of 28 rigs from the end of fiscal 2007, resulting from new flexrigs placed into service. the company's u.s. land operations contributed approximately 76 percent ($1,542.0 million) of the company's consolidated operating revenues during fiscal 2008, compared with approximately 72 percent ($1,174.9 million) of consolidated operating revenues during fiscal 2007 and approximately 68 percent ($829.1 million) of consolidated operating revenues during fiscal 2006. rig utilization in fiscal 2008 was approximately 96 percent, down from approximately 97 percent in fiscal 2007 and 99 percent in 2006. the company's fleet of flexrigs and highly mobile rigs maintained an average utilization of approximately 98 percent during fiscal 2008 while the company's conventional rigs had an average utilization rate of approximately 80 percent. a rig is considered to be utilized when it is operated or being moved, assembled or dismantled under contract. at the close of fiscal 2008, 182 land rigs were working out of 185 available rigs. offshore drilling the company's offshore operations contributed approximately 8 percent ($154.5 million in fiscal 2008 and $123.1 million in fiscal 2007) of the company's consolidated operating revenues during both fiscal years, compared to approximately 13 percent ($154.5 million) of the company's consolidated operating revenues during fiscal 2006. rig utilization in fiscal 2008 was approximately 75 percent, up from approximately 65 percent in fiscal 2007 and 69 percent in 2006. at the end of fiscal 2008, the company had eight of its nine offshore platform rigs under contract and continued to work under management contracts for three customer-owned rigs. the management contract for one rig located offshore equatorial guinea terminated in early fiscal 2008 but the company has continued under a standby contract. the company is currently negotiating a new long-term contract in equatorial guinea, and the company anticipates returning to a full dayrate in fiscal 2010. revenues from drilling services performed for the company's largest offshore drilling customer totaled approximately 40 percent of offshore revenues during fiscal 2008. international land drilling general the company's international land operations contributed approximately 16 percent ($328.2 million) of the company's consolidated operating revenues during fiscal 2008, compared with approximately 20 percent ($320.3 million) of consolidated operating revenues during fiscal 2007 and 19 percent ($230.8 million) in fiscal 2006. rig utilization in fiscal 2008 was 82 percent and 90 percent in fiscal 2007 and 2006. venezuela venezuelan operations continue to be a significant part of the company's operations. the company worked exclusively for the venezuelan state petroleum company, pdvsa and a pdvsa-owned affiliate, during fiscal 2008 and revenues from this work accounted for approximately 51 percent of international operating revenues. revenues generated from venezuelan drilling operations contributed approximately 4 table of contents 8 percent ($167.2 million in fiscal 2008 and $127.3 million in fiscal 2007) of the company's consolidated operating revenues for both fiscal years compared to approximately 7 percent ($84.6 million) of consolidated operating revenues during fiscal 2006. the company had 11 rigs working in venezuela at the end of fiscal 2008. the company's rig utilization rate in venezuela increased from approximately 92 percent during fiscal 2007 to approximately 97 percent in fiscal 2008. rig utilization in 2006 was 83 percent. ecuador at the end of fiscal 2008, the company had four rigs in ecuador. during fiscal 2008, the company transferred two rigs from ecuador to colombia and sold two rigs that had been idle. the company's utilization rate was 59 percent during fiscal 2008, down from 89 percent in fiscal 2007 and 100 percent in fiscal 2006. revenues generated by ecuadorian drilling operations contributed approximately 3 percent ($55.1 million) of the company's consolidated operating revenues during fiscal 2008, as compared with approximately 6 percent ($93.9 million) of consolidated operating revenues during fiscal 2007 and approximately 7 percent ($88.7 million) of consolidated operating revenues during fiscal 2006. revenues from drilling services performed for the company's largest customer in ecuador totaled approximately 1 percent of consolidated operating revenues and approximately 6 percent of international operating revenues during fiscal 2008. the ecuadorian drilling contracts are primarily with large international or national oil companies. other locations in addition to its operations in venezuela and ecuador, at the end of fiscal 2008, the company had five rigs in argentina, five rigs in colombia and one rig in tunisia. additionally, four new flexrigs were completed and ready for delivery at september 30, 2008. at the end of october 2008, all rigs in argentina, colombia and tunisia were fully contracted. two flexrigs were mobilized to colombia and commenced operations. five flexrigs, including the three rigs completed as of september 30, 2008, are scheduled to be mobilized to argentina during fiscal 2009. financial information relating to revenues, total assets and operating income by reportable operating segments may be found on, and is incorporated by reference to, pages 77 through 81 of the company's annual report (exhibit 13 to this form 10-k). employees the company had 6,198 employees within the united states (14 of which were part-time employees) and 1,172 employees in international operations as of september 30, 2008. available information information relating to the company's internet address and the company's sec filings may be found on, and is incorporated by reference to, page 83 of the company's annual report (exhibit 13 to this form 10-k). item 1a. risk factors in addition to the risk factors discussed elsewhere in this report, the company cautions that the following "risk factors" could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. a deteriorating global economy may affect the company's business. as a result of recent volatility in oil and natural gas prices and substantial uncertainty in the capital markets due to the deteriorating global economic environment, the company is unable to determine whether its customers will reduce spending on exploration and development drilling or whether customers 5 table of contents and/or vendors and suppliers will be able to access financing necessary to sustain their current level of operations, fulfill their commitments and/or fund future operations and obligations. the deteriorating global economic environment may impact industry fundamentals, and the potential resulting decrease in demand for drilling rigs could cause the drilling industry to cycle into a downturn. these conditions could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. the contract drilling business is highly competitive. competition in contract drilling involves such factors as price, rig availability, efficiency, condition and type of equipment, reputation, operating safety, and customer relations. competition is primarily on a regional basis and may vary significantly by region at any particular time. land drilling rigs can be readily moved from one region to another in response to changes in levels of activity, and an oversupply of rigs in any region may result, leading to increased price competition. although many contracts for drilling services are awarded based solely on price, the company has been successful in establishing long-term relationships with certain customers which have allowed the company to secure drilling work even though the company may not have been the lowest bidder for such work. the company has continued to attempt to differentiate its services based upon its flexrigs and its engineering design expertise, operational efficiency, safety and environmental awareness. this strategy is less effective when lower demand for drilling services intensifies price competition and makes it more difficult or impossible to compete on any basis other than price. also, future improvements in operational efficiency and safety by the company's competitors could negatively affect the company's ability to differentiate its services. the company's operations are subject to a number of operational risks, including weather. the drilling operations of the company are subject to the many hazards inherent in the business, including inclement weather, blowouts and well fires. these hazards could cause personal injury, suspend drilling operations, seriously damage or destroy the equipment involved and cause substantial damage to producing formations and the surrounding areas. the company's offshore drilling operations are also subject to potentially greater environmental liability, adverse sea conditions and platform damage or destruction due to collision with aircraft or marine vessels. specifically, the company operates several platform rigs in the gulf of mexico. the gulf of mexico experiences hurricanes and other extreme weather conditions on a frequent basis. damage caused by high winds and turbulent seas could potentially curtail operations on such platform rigs for significant periods of time until the damage can be repaired. moreover, even if the company's platform rigs are not directly damaged by such storms, the company may experience disruptions in operations due to damage to customer platforms and other related facilities in the area. the company has a new-build rig assembly facility located near the houston, texas ship channel. also, the company's principal fabricator and other vendors are located in the gulf coast region. due to their location, these facilities are exposed to potentially greater hurricane damage. fixed-term contracts may in certain instances be terminated without an early termination payment. fixed-term drilling contracts customarily provide for termination at the election of the customer, with an "early termination payment" to be paid to the company if a contract is terminated prior to the expiration of the fixed term. however, under certain limited circumstances, such as destruction of a drilling rig, bankruptcy of the company, sustained unacceptable performance by the company or delivery of a rig beyond certain grace and/or liquidated damage periods, no early termination payment would be paid to the company. even if an early termination payment is owed to the company, the recent deteriorating global economy may affect the customer's ability to pay the early termination payment. the company's operations present risks of loss that, if not insured or indemnified against, could adversely affect our results of operations. the company insures its rigs and equipment at estimated replacement cost at the inception of the policy. the company self-insures a $1 million per occurrence deductible, as well as 10 percent of the estimated replacement cost of offshore rigs and 30 percent of the estimated replacement cost of its land 6 table of contents rigs and equipment. damage from named wind storms is limited to $100 million in the aggregate and the per occurrence deductible increases to $3.5 million. rig property insurance coverage expires in may 2009. no insurance is carried against loss of earnings or business interruption. the company is unable to obtain significant amounts of insurance to cover risks of underground reservoir damage; however, the company is generally indemnified under its drilling contracts from this risk. the company has insurance coverage for comprehensive general liability, automobile liability, worker's compensation and employer's liability. generally, casualty deductibles are $1 million or $2 million per occurrence, depending on whether a claim occurs inside or outside of the united states. the company maintains certain other insurance coverages with deductibles as high as $5 million. insurance is purchased over deductibles to reduce the company's exposure to catastrophic events. the company retains a significant portion of its expected losses under its worker's compensation, general liability and automobile liability programs. the company records estimates for incurred outstanding liabilities for unresolved worker's compensation, general liability and for claims that are incurred but not reported. estimates are based on adjuster estimates, historical experience or statistical methods that the company believes are reliable. nonetheless, insurance estimates include certain assumptions and management judgments regarding the frequency and severity of claims, claim development and settlement practices. unanticipated changes in these factors may produce materially different amounts of expense that would be reported under these programs. no assurance can be given that all or a portion of the company's coverage will not be cancelled during fiscal 2009 or that insurance coverage will continue to be available at rates considered reasonable. no assurance can be given that the company's insurance and indemnification arrangements will adequately protect it against all liabilities that could result from the hazards of its drilling operations. incurring a liability for which the company is not fully insured or indemnified could materially affect the company's results of operations. shortages of drilling equipment and supplies could adversely affect our operations. the contract drilling business is highly cyclical. during periods of increased demand for contract drilling services, delays in delivery and shortages of drilling equipment and supplies can occur. these risks are intensified during periods when the industry experiences significant new drilling rig construction or refurbishment. any such delays or shortages could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. the company depends on a limited number of thinly capitalized vendors, the loss of any of which could disrupt the company's operations. certain key rig components are either purchased from or fabricated by a single or limited number of vendors, and the company has no long-term contracts with many of these vendors. shortages could occur in these essential components due to an interruption of supply or increased demands in the industry. if the company was unable to procure certain of such rig components, it would be required to reduce its rig construction or other operations, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. if the company's principal fabricator, located on the texas gulf coast, was unable or unwilling to continue fabricating rig components, then the company would have to transfer this work to other acceptable fabricators. this transfer could result in significant delay in the completion of new flexrigs. any significant interruption in the fabrication of rig components could have a material adverse impact on the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. certain key rig components are obtained from vendors that are, in some cases, thinly capitalized, independent companies that generate significant portions of their business from the company or from a small group of companies in the energy industry. these vendors may be disproportionately affected by any loss of business, downturn in the energy industry or reduction or unavailability of credit. therefore, disruptions in rig component delivery may occur, and such disruptions and terminations could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. 7 table of contents oil and natural gas prices are volatile, and low prices could negatively affect our financial results in the future. the company's operations can be materially affected by low oil and gas prices. the company believes that any significant reduction in oil and gas prices could depress the level of exploration and production activity and result in a corresponding decline in demand for the company's services. worldwide military, political and economic events, including initiatives by the organization of petroleum exporting countries, may affect both the demand for, and the supply of, oil and gas. fluctuations during the last few years in the demand and supply of oil and gas have contributed to, and are likely to continue to contribute to, price volatility. any prolonged reduction in demand for the company's services could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. international uncertainties and local laws could adversely affect the company's business. international operations are subject to certain political, economic and other uncertainties not encountered in u.s. operations, including increased risks of terrorism, kidnapping of employees, expropriation of equipment as well as expropriation of a particular oil company operator's property and drilling rights, taxation policies, foreign exchange restrictions, currency rate fluctuations and general hazards associated with foreign sovereignty over certain areas in which operations are conducted. there can be no assurance that there will not be changes in local laws, regulations and administrative requirements or the interpretation thereof which could have a material adverse effect on the profitability of the company's operations or on the ability of the company to continue operations in certain areas. because of the impact of local laws, the company's future operations in certain areas may be conducted through entities in which local citizens own interests and through entities (including joint ventures) in which the company holds only a minority interest or pursuant to arrangements under which the company conducts operations under contract to local entities. while the company believes that neither operating through such entities nor pursuant to such arrangements would have a material adverse effect on the company's operations or revenues, there can be no assurance that the company will in all cases be able to structure or restructure its operations to conform to local law (or the administration thereof) on terms acceptable to the company. venezuela continues to experience significant political, economic and social instability. in the event that extended labor strikes occur or turmoil increases, the company could experience shortages in labor and/or materials and supplies necessary to operate some or all of its venezuelan drilling rigs, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. during the mid-1970s, the venezuelan government nationalized the exploration and production business. at the present time it appears the venezuelan government will not nationalize the contract drilling business. any such nationalization could result in the company's loss of all or a portion of its assets and business in venezuela. although the company attempts to minimize the potential impact of such risks by operating in more than one geographical area, during fiscal 2008, approximately 16 percent of the company's consolidated operating revenues were generated from the international contract drilling business. during fiscal 2008, approximately 95 percent of the international operating revenues were from operations in south america and approximately 71 percent of south american operating revenues were from venezuela and ecuador. the company's business and results of operations may be adversely affected by foreign currency devaluation. general contracts for work in foreign countries generally provide for payment in united states dollars, except for amounts required to meet local expenses. however, government-owned petroleum companies are more frequently requesting that a greater proportion of these payments be made in local currencies. based upon current information, the company believes that exposure to potential losses from currency devaluation is immaterial in colombia, equatorial guinea, trinidad and tunisia. in those countries, all receivables and payments are currently in u.s. dollars. cash balances are kept at an insignificant level which assists in reducing exposure. 8 table of contents argentina in 2002, argentina suffered a 60 percent devaluation of the peso. the company invoices in (usd) dollars and is paid in pesos equivalent to the dollar invoice. the company remits the dollars to the parent by exchanging pesos through the central bank. the exchange rate between the u.s. dollar and the argentine peso has stayed within a narrow range for the past seven years and in fiscal 2008, the company experienced an immaterial currency loss. in order to establish a source of local currency to meet current obligations in argentine pesos, the company borrowed in the form of an unsecured short-term note from a local bank in argentina at the market interest rate designated by the bank. the outstanding balance of approximately $1.7 million along with interest was paid in full subsequent to september 30, 2008. venezuela on january 1, 2008, the venezuelan government changed the official venezuelan currency from the bolivar to the bolivar fuerte (2150 bolivars equals 2.15 bolivar fuerte). the company is exposed to risks of currency devaluation in venezuela primarily as a result of bolivar fuerte receivable balances and bolivar fuerte cash balances. in venezuela, approximately 60 percent of the company's billings are in u.s. dollars and 40 percent in bolivar fuerte. the significance of this arrangement is that even though the dollar-based invoices may be paid in bolivar fuerte, the company, historically, has usually been able to convert the bolivar fuerte into u.s. dollars in a timely manner and thus avoid, in large measure, devaluation losses pertaining to the dollar-based invoices paid in bolivar fuerte. however, this arrangement is effective only in the absence of exchange controls. in january 2003, the venezuelan government put into effect exchange controls that fixed the exchange rate and also prohibited the company, as well as other companies, from converting bolivars into u.s. dollars through the central bank. as part of the exchange controls regulation, the venezuelan government provided a mechanism by which companies could request conversion of bolivar balances into u.s. dollars. in compliance with such regulations, the company, in october of 2003, submitted a request to the venezuelan government seeking permission to dividend earnings, which would convert 14 billion bolivars into u.s. dollars. in january 2004, the venezuelan government approved the company's request to convert bolivar cash balances to u.s. dollars and allowed the remittance of $8.8 million u.s. dollars as dividends to the u.s.-based parent. this was the first dividend remitted under the new regulation. on january 16, 2006, a dividend of $6.5 million u.s. dollars was remitted to the u.s.-based parent. on august 18, 2006, the company applied for a $9.3 million dividend. the venezuelan government subsequently approved $7.2 million of this dividend and on march 6, 2007, the $7.2 million was paid to the u.s.-based parent. as a consequence, the company's exposure to currency devaluation was reduced by these amounts. on july 22, 2008, the company made applications with the venezuelan government requesting the approval to convert bolivar fuerte cash balances to u.s. dollars. when and if the company receives approval from the venezuelan government, the company's venezuelan subsidiary will remit approximately $28.4 million as a dividend to its u.s.-based parent, thus reducing the company's exposure to currency devaluation. while the company has been successful in obtaining government approval for conversion of bolivar fuerte cash balances to u.s. dollars, there is no guarantee that future conversion to u.s. dollars will be permitted. in the event that conversion to u.s. dollars would be prohibited, then bolivar fuerte cash balances would increase and expose the company to increased risk of devaluation. as stated above, the company is exposed to risks of currency devaluation in venezuela primarily as a result of bolivar fuerte receivable and cash balances. as a result of a 12 percent devaluation of the bolivar during fiscal 2005, the company experienced total devaluation losses of $0.6 million during that same period. past devaluation losses may not be reflective of the actual potential for future devaluation losses. even though venezuela continues to operate under the exchange controls in place and the venezuelan bolivar fuerte exchange rate is fixed at 2.15 bolivar fuerte to one u.s. dollar, the exact amount and timing of devaluation is uncertain. at september 30, 2008, the company had a $43.4 million cash balance 9 table of contents denominated in bolivar fuerte included in the balance sheet and exposed to the risk of currency devaluation. while the company is unable to predict future devaluation in venezuela, if fiscal 2009 balance sheet components are similar to fiscal 2008, and if a 10 percent to 30 percent devaluation were to occur, the company could experience potential currency devaluation losses ranging from approximately $7 million to $18 million. the company derives its revenue in venezuela from pdvsa, the venezuelan state-owned petroleum company. at the end of fiscal 2008, the company had a net receivable from pdvsa of approximately $65.5 million, of which approximately $5.2 million was 90 days old or older. at november 1, 2008, such receivable balance had decreased to approximately $63.9 million, of which approximately $13.5 million was 90 days old or older. the company continues to communicate with pdvsa regarding the settlement of the outstanding receivables. the company's venezuelan subsidiary has received notification from pdvsa that reimbursement of u.s. dollar invoices previously paid in bolivar fuerte will be made only when supporting documentation has been approved. the approval and subsequent payment would result in reducing the foreign currency exposure by approximately $46.3 million. the company is unable to determine the timing of when payment will be received. while the collection of the receivables is difficult and time consuming due to pdvsa policies and procedures, the company, at this time, has no reason to believe the amounts will not be paid. historically, pdvsa payments on accounts receivable have, by traditional business measurements, been slower than those of other foreign customers of the company. however, the failure of pdvsa to make payments on outstanding receivables, or a continued increase in its delay in making payments could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. government regulations and environmental laws could adversely affect the company's business. many aspects of the company's operations are subject to government regulation, including those relating to drilling practices and methods and the level of taxation. in addition, the united states and various other countries have environmental regulations which affect drilling operations. drilling contractors may be liable for damages resulting from pollution. under united states regulations, drilling contractors must establish financial responsibility to cover potential liability for pollution of offshore waters. generally, the company is indemnified under drilling contracts from liability arising from pollution, except in certain cases of surface pollution. however, the enforceability of indemnification provisions in foreign countries may be questionable. the company believes that it is in substantial compliance with all legislation and regulations affecting its operations in the drilling of oil and gas wells and in controlling the discharge of wastes. to date, compliance has not materially affected the capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position of the company, although these measures may add to the costs of drilling operations. additional legislation or regulation may reasonably be anticipated, and the effect thereof on operations cannot be predicted. variable rate indebtedness subjects the company to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly. at september 30, 2008, the company had outstanding, $175 million intermediate-term unsecured debt with staged maturities from august 2009 to august 2014, with varying fixed interest rates for each maturity series. the average interest rate during the next four years on this debt is 6.5 percent, after which it increases to 6.6 percent. the fair value of this debt at september 30, 2008, was approximately $198 million. the company has in place a $400 million senior unsecured credit facility which expires in december of 2011. the company had $325 million borrowed and three letters of credit totaling $25.9 million outstanding against the facility at september 30, 2008. as of november 20, 2008, borrowings under the facility had declined to $290 million. the interest rate on the borrowings is based on a spread over libor and the company pays a commitment fee based on the unused balance of the facility. the spread over libor as well as the commitment fee is determined according to a scale based on a ratio of the company's total debt to total capitalization. the company also has the option to borrow at the prime rate for maturities of less than 30 days. 10 table of contents at november 26, 2008, the company was in discussions with the syndicate leader of the current bank facility about securing another separate bank facility for $100 to $150 million. while there is no certainty that such a facility could be placed, the company expects that one could be completed and funded by late december 2008 or january 2009. should the company be unable to secure additional financing, there is a risk that it would be forced to liquidate a portion of its investment portfolio at depressed market prices in order to fund its capital expenditures planned for 2009. the company also has an agreement with a single bank for an unsecured line of credit for $5 million. the interest rate on borrowings is equal to the prime rate minus 1.75%. at september 30, 2008, the company had no outstanding borrowings against the credit line. interest rates could rise for various reasons in the future and increase the company's total interest expense, depending upon the amount borrowed against the credit lines. the company's securities portfolio may lose significant value due to a decline in equity prices and other market-related risks, thus impacting the company's debt ratio and financial strength. at september 30, 2008, the company had a portfolio of securities with a total market value of $384 million. these securities are subject to a wide variety of market-related risks that could substantially reduce or increase the market value of the company's holdings. except for the company's holdings in atwood oceanics, inc. and investments in limited partnerships carried at cost, the portfolio is recorded at fair value on its balance sheet with changes in unrealized after-tax value reflected in the equity section of its balance sheet. any reduction in market value would have an impact on the company's debt ratio and financial strength. at november 20, 2008, the market value of the portfolio had dropped to approximately $175 million. the loss of one or a number of our large customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in fiscal 2008, the company received approximately 59 percent of its consolidated operating revenues from the company's ten largest contract drilling customers and approximately 27 percent of its consolidated operating revenues from the company's three largest customers (including their affiliates). the company believes that its relationship with all of these customers is good; however, the loss of one or more of its larger customers would have a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. competition for experienced technical personnel may negatively impact our operations or financial results. the company utilizes highly skilled personnel in operating and supporting its businesses. in times of high utilization, it can be difficult to find qualified individuals. although to date the company's operations have not been materially affected by competition for personnel, an inability to obtain a sufficient number of qualified personnel could materially impact the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. new technologies may cause the company's drilling methods and equipment to become less competitive, resulting in an adverse effect on the company's financial condition and results of operations. although the company takes measures to ensure that it uses advanced oil and natural gas drilling technology, changes in technology or improvements in competitors' equipment could make the company's equipment less competitive or require significant capital investments to keep its equipment competitive. 11 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 20 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information required by this item may be found under the caption "risk factors" beginning on page 5 of this report and on, and is incorporated by reference to, the following pages of the company's annual report (exhibit 13 to this form 10-k) under management's discussion &amp; analysis of financial condition and results of operations and in notes to consolidated financial statements: market risk page foreign currency exchange rate risk 37-39 credit risk 39-40 commodity price risk 40-41 interest rate risk 41-42 equity price risk 42risk factors 6 risk factors. the following table sets forth the total backlog by reportable segment as of september 30, 2009 and 2008, and the percentage of the september 30, 2009 backlog not reasonably expected to be filled in fiscal 2010: total backlog revenue percentage not reasonably expected to be filled in fiscal 2010 reportable segment 9/30/2009 9/30/2008 (in millions) u.s. land $ 2,016 $ 2,876 61.1% offshore 169 199 74.6% international 343 299 68.5% $ 2,528 $ 3,374 3 table of contents u.s. land drilling at the end of september 2009, 2008 and 2007, we had 201, 185 and 157, respectively, of our land rigs available for work in the united states. the total number of rigs at the end of fiscal 2009 increased by a net of 16 rigs from the end of fiscal 2008. the increase is due to 22 new flexrigs having been completed and placed into service, 7 rigs completed and ready for service, 12 transferred to international operations and 1 rig removed as held for sale. our u.s. land operations contributed approximately 76 percent ($1,441.2 million) of our consolidated operating revenues during fiscal 2009, compared with approximately 76 percent ($1,542.0 million) of consolidated operating revenues during fiscal 2008 and approximately 72 percent ($1,174.9 million) of consolidated operating revenues during fiscal 2007. rig utilization in fiscal 2009 was approximately 68 percent, down from approximately 96 percent in fiscal 2008 and 97 percent in 2007. our fleet of flexrigs maintained an average utilization of approximately 76 percent during fiscal 2009 while our conventional and highly mobile rigs had an average utilization rate of approximately 36 percent. a rig is considered to be utilized when it is operated or being mobilized or demobilized under contract. at the close of fiscal 2009, 111 land rigs were working out of 201 available rigs. offshore drilling our offshore operations contributed approximately 11 percent ($204.7 million) in fiscal 2009 of our consolidated operating revenue compared to 8 percent in both fiscal years 2008 and 2007 ($154.5 million in fiscal 2008 and $123.1 million in fiscal 2007). rig utilization in fiscal 2009 was approximately 89 percent, up from approximately 75 percent in fiscal 2008 and 65 percent in fiscal 2007. at the end of fiscal 2009, we had seven of our nine offshore platform rigs under contract and continued to work under management contracts for three customer-owned rigs. the management contract for one rig located offshore equatorial guinea terminated in early fiscal 2008 but we have continued under 30-day extensions. currently, we are negotiating a new contract in equatorial guinea and expect returning to a full dayrate in fiscal 2010. revenues from drilling services performed for our largest offshore drilling customer totaled approximately 36 percent of offshore revenues during fiscal 2009. international land drilling general our international land operations contributed approximately 13 percent ($237.4 million) of our consolidated operating revenues during fiscal 2009, compared with approximately 16 percent ($328.2 million) of consolidated operating revenues during fiscal 2008 and 20 percent ($320.3 million) in fiscal 2007. rig utilization in fiscal 2009 was 68 percent, 82 percent in fiscal 2008 and 90 percent in fiscal 2007. venezuela we worked exclusively for the venezuelan state petroleum company, pdvsa and a pdvsa-owned affiliate, during fiscal 2009 and revenues from this work accounted for approximately 21 percent of international operating revenues. revenues recognized from venezuelan drilling operations contributed approximately 3 percent ($50.3 million) of our consolidated operating revenues in fiscal 2009 compared to 8 percent in both fiscal years 2008 and 2007 ($167.2 million in fiscal 2008 and $127.3 million in fiscal 2007). we determined that as of the beginning of the second quarter of fiscal 2009 and forward, pdvsa no longer met the revenue recognition criteria as collectability became uncertain. as a result of this change, revenue of $57.9 million was not recorded in fiscal 2009. as a result of the uncertainty regarding the timing of collection of accounts receivables in u.s. dollars from pdvsa, during the second fiscal quarter of 2009, we decided to discontinue work as contracts expire. all of our eleven rigs were active in venezuela at the end of 2008. at the end of fiscal 2009, one rig remained active and has since become idle. as a result, rig utilization in venezuela decreased to approximately 64 percent in fiscal 2009 compared to approximately 97 percent during fiscal 2008 and approximately 92 percent in fiscal 2007. we will continue to pursue future drilling opportunities in venezuela, but we do not expect to commit to new contracts until additional progress is made on pending accounts receivable and converting local currency to u.s. dollars. for additional information, see item 1a. risk factors. 4 table of contents colombia at the end of fiscal 2009, we had six rigs in colombia. our utilization rate was approximately 88 percent during fiscal 2009, approximately 87 percent during fiscal 2008 and approximately 100 percent during fiscal 2007. revenues generated by colombian drilling operations contributed approximately 4 percent ($77.3 million) of our consolidated operating revenues during fiscal 2009, compared with approximately 2 percent in both fiscal years 2008 and 2007 ($42.4 million in fiscal 2008 and $26.8 million in fiscal 2007). revenues from drilling services performed for our largest customer in colombia totaled approximately 2 percent of consolidated operating revenues and approximately 20 percent of international operating revenues during fiscal 2009. the colombian drilling contracts are primarily with large international or national oil companies. ecuador at the end of fiscal 2009, we had four rigs in ecuador. the utilization rate in ecuador was 100 percent in fiscal 2009, compared to 59 percent in fiscal 2008 and 89 percent in fiscal 2007. revenues generated by ecuadorian drilling operation contributed approximately 3 percent ($52.3 million in fiscal 2009 and $55.1 million in fiscal 2008) of our consolidated operating revenues for both fiscal years 2009 and 2008 compared to 6 percent ($93.9 million) of our consolidated operating revenues during fiscal 2007. revenues from drilling services performed for the largest customer in ecuador totaled approximately 2 percent of consolidated operating revenues and approximately 17 percent of international operating revenues during fiscal 2009. the ecuadorian drilling contracts are primarily with large international or national oil companies. argentina at the end of fiscal 2009, we had nine rigs in argentina. our utilization rate was approximately 52 percent during fiscal 2009, approximately 88 percent during fiscal 2008 and approximately 100 percent during fiscal 2007. revenues generated by argentine drilling operations contributed approximately 2 percent of our consolidated operating revenues during fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007 ($42.1 million, $44.4 million and $39.3 million, respectively). revenues from drilling services performed for our two largest customers in argentina totaled approximately 1 percent of consolidated operating revenues and approximately 11 percent of international operating revenues during fiscal 2009. the argentine drilling contracts are primarily with large international or national oil companies. other locations in addition to our operations discussed above, at the end of fiscal 2009 we had one rig in tunisia, six rigs in mexico, one rig en route to africa and five rigs being used for prospective bidding purposes internationally. one new flexrig was completed and ready for international delivery at september 30, 2009. the new rig is under contract with the location for work to be determined by the operator. financial information relating to revenues, total assets and operating income by reportable operating segments may be found on, and is incorporated by reference to, pages 77 through 80 of our annual report (exhibit 13 to this form 10-k). employees we had 4,250 employees within the united states (13 of which were part-time employees) and 1,134 employees in international operations as of september 30, 2009. available information information relating to our internet address and information relating to our securities and exchange commission ("sec") filings may be found on, and is incorporated by reference to, page 82 of our annual report (exhibit 13 to this form 10-k). 5 table of contents item 1a. risk factors in addition to the risk factors discussed elsewhere in this report, we caution that the following "risk factors" could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. a sluggish global economy may affect our business. as a result of recent volatility in oil and natural gas prices and substantial uncertainty in the capital markets due to the global economic recession and continuing sluggish global economic environment, we are unable to determine whether our customers will further reduce spending on exploration and development drilling or whether customers and/or vendors and suppliers will be able to access financing necessary to sustain their current reduced level of operations, fulfill their commitments and/or fund future operations and obligations. the current global economic environment may continue to impact industry fundamentals and result in continued reduced demand for drilling rigs. these conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business. the contract drilling business is highly competitive. competition in contract drilling involves such factors as price, rig availability, efficiency, condition and type of equipment, reputation, operating safety, and customer relations. competition is primarily on a regional basis and may vary significantly by region at any particular time. land drilling rigs can be readily moved from one region to another in response to changes in levels of activity, and an oversupply of rigs in any region may result, leading to increased price competition. although many contracts for drilling services are awarded based solely on price, we have been successful in establishing long-term relationships with certain customers which have allowed us to secure drilling work even though we may not have been the lowest bidder for such work. we have continued to attempt to differentiate our services based upon our flexrigs and our engineering design expertise, operational efficiency, safety and environmental awareness. this strategy is less effective when lower demand for drilling services intensifies price competition and makes it more difficult or impossible to compete on any basis other than price. also, future improvements in operational efficiency and safety by our competitors could negatively affect our ability to differentiate our services. our operations are subject to a number of operational risks, including weather. our drilling operations are subject to the many hazards inherent in the business, including inclement weather, blowouts and well fires. these hazards could cause personal injury, suspend drilling operations, seriously damage or destroy the equipment involved and cause substantial damage to producing formations and the surrounding areas. our offshore drilling operations are also subject to potentially greater environmental liability, adverse sea conditions and platform damage or destruction due to collision with aircraft or marine vessels. specifically, we operate several platform rigs in the gulf of mexico. the gulf of mexico experiences hurricanes and other extreme weather conditions on a frequent basis. damage caused by high winds and turbulent seas could potentially curtail operations on such platform rigs for significant periods of time until the damage can be repaired. moreover, even if our platform rigs are not directly damaged by such storms, we may experience disruptions in operations due to damage to customer platforms and other related facilities in the area. we have a new-build rig assembly facility located near the houston, texas ship channel. also, our principal fabricator and other vendors are located in the gulf coast region. due to their location, these facilities are exposed to potentially greater hurricane damage. fixed-term contracts may in certain instances be terminated without an early termination payment. fixed-term drilling contracts customarily provide for termination at the election of the customer, with an "early termination payment" to be paid to us if a contract is terminated prior to the expiration of the fixed term. however, under certain limited circumstances, such as destruction of a drilling rig, our bankruptcy, sustained unacceptable performance by us or delivery of a rig beyond certain grace and/or liquidated damage periods, no early termination payment would be paid to us. even if an early termination payment is owed to us, the the current global economic environment may affect the customer's ability to pay the early termination payment. 6 table of contents our operations present risks of loss that, if not insured or indemnified against, could adversely affect our results of operations. with the exception of "named wind storm" risk in the gulf of mexico, we insure rigs and related equipment at values that approximate the current replacement cost on the inception date of the policy. we self-insure a $1.0 million per occurrence deductible, as well as 10 percent of the estimated replacement cost of offshore rigs and 30 percent of the estimated replacement cost for land rigs and equipment. we have two insurance policies covering six offshore platform rigs for "named wind storm" risk in the gulf of mexico. the first policy covers four rigs and has a $55 million insurance limit over a $20 million deductible. we have been indemnified by a customer for $17 million of this deductible. the second policy covers two rigs and has a $40 million limit and a $3.5 million deductible. rig property insurance coverage expires in may 2010. no insurance is carried against loss of earnings or business interruption. we are unable to obtain significant amounts of insurance to cover risks of underground reservoir damage; however, we are generally indemnified under our drilling contracts from this risk. we have insurance coverage for comprehensive general liability, automobile liability, worker's compensation and employer's liability. generally, casualty deductibles are $1 million or $2 million per occurrence, depending on whether a claim occurs inside or outside of the united states. we maintain certain other insurance coverages with deductibles as high as $5 million. insurance is purchased over deductibles to reduce our exposure to catastrophic events. we retain a significant portion of our expected losses under our worker's compensation, general liability and automobile liability programs. we record estimates for incurred outstanding liabilities for unresolved worker's compensation, general liability and for claims that are incurred but not reported. estimates are based on adjuster estimates, historical experience or statistical methods that we believe are reliable. nonetheless, insurance estimates include certain assumptions and management judgments regarding the frequency and severity of claims, claim development and settlement practices. unanticipated changes in these factors may produce materially different amounts of expense that would be reported under these programs. no assurance can be given that all or a portion of our coverage will not be cancelled during fiscal 2010 or that insurance coverage will continue to be available at rates considered reasonable. no assurance can be given that our insurance and indemnification arrangements will adequately protect us against all liabilities that could result from the hazards of our drilling operations. incurring a liability for which we are not fully insured or indemnified could materially affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. shortages of drilling equipment and supplies could adversely affect our operations. the contract drilling business is highly cyclical. during periods of increased demand for contract drilling services, delays in delivery and shortages of drilling equipment and supplies can occur. these risks are intensified during periods when the industry experiences significant new drilling rig construction or refurbishment. any such delays or shortages could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we depend on a limited number of vendors, some of which are thinly capitalized and the loss of any of which could disrupt our operations. certain key rig components are either purchased from or fabricated by a single or limited number of vendors, and we have no long-term contracts with many of these vendors. shortages could occur in these essential components due to an interruption of supply or increased demands in the industry. if we are unable to procure certain of such rig components, we would be required to reduce our rig construction or other operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if our principal fabricator, located on the texas gulf coast, was unable or unwilling to continue fabricating rig components, then we would have to transfer this work to other acceptable fabricators. this transfer could result in significant delay in the completion of new flexrigs. any significant interruption in the fabrication of rig components could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 7 table of contents certain key rig components are obtained from vendors that are, in some cases, thinly capitalized, independent companies that generate significant portions of their business from us or from a small group of companies in the energy industry. these vendors may be disproportionately affected by any loss of business, downturn in the energy industry or reduction or unavailability of credit. therefore, disruptions in rig component delivery may occur, and such disruptions and terminations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. oil and natural gas prices are volatile, and low prices could negatively affect our financial results in the future. our operations can be materially affected by low oil and gas prices. we believe that any significant reduction in oil and gas prices could depress the level of exploration and production activity and result in a corresponding decline in demand for our services. worldwide military, political and economic events, including initiatives by the organization of petroleum exporting countries, may affect both the demand for, and the supply of, oil and gas. fluctuations during the last few years in the demand and supply of oil and gas have contributed to, and are likely to continue to contribute to, price volatility. any prolonged reduction in demand for our services could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. international uncertainties and local laws could adversely affect our business. international operations are subject to certain political, economic and other uncertainties not encountered in u.s. operations, including increased risks of terrorism, kidnapping of employees, expropriation of equipment as well as expropriation of a particular oil company operator's property and drilling rights, taxation policies, foreign exchange restrictions, currency rate fluctuations and general hazards associated with foreign sovereignty over certain areas in which operations are conducted. there can be no assurance that there will not be changes in local laws, regulations and administrative requirements or the interpretation thereof which could have a material adverse effect on the profitability of our operations or on our ability to continue operations in certain areas. because of the impact of local laws, our future operations in certain areas may be conducted through entities in which local citizens own interests and through entities (including joint ventures) in which we hold only a minority interest or pursuant to arrangements under which we conduct operations under contract to local entities. while we believe that neither operating through such entities nor pursuant to such arrangements would have a material adverse effect on our operations or revenues, there can be no assurance that we will in all cases be able to structure or restructure our operations to conform to local law (or the administration thereof) on terms we find acceptable. venezuela continues to experience significant political, economic and social instability. in the event that extended labor strikes occur or turmoil increases, we could experience shortages in labor and/or materials and supplies necessary to operate some or all of our venezuelan drilling rigs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. during the mid-1970s, the venezuelan government nationalized the exploration and production business. at the present time it appears the venezuelan government will not nationalize the contract drilling business. any such nationalization could result in the loss of all or a portion of our assets and business in venezuela. although we attempt to minimize the potential impact of such risks by operating in more than one geographical area, during fiscal 2009, approximately 13 percent of our consolidated operating revenues were generated from the international contract drilling business. during fiscal 2009, approximately 93 percent of the international operating revenues were from operations in south america and approximately 57 percent of south american operating revenues were from venezuela and colombia. our business and results of operations may be adversely affected by foreign currency devaluation. general contracts for work in foreign countries generally provide for payment in united states dollars, except for amounts required to meet local expenses. however, government-owned petroleum companies are more 8 table of contents frequently requesting that a greater proportion of these payments be made in local currencies. based upon current information, we believe that exposure to potential losses from currency devaluation is immaterial in colombia, mexico, equatorial guinea, trinidad and tunisia. in those countries, all receivables and payments are currently in u.s. dollars. cash balances are kept at an insignificant level which assists in reducing exposure. argentina in 2002, argentina suffered a 60 percent devaluation of the peso. we invoice in u.s. dollars and are paid in pesos equivalent to the dollar invoice. our argentine subsidiary remits the dollars to the parent by exchanging pesos through the argentine central bank. the exchange rate between the u.s. dollar and the argentine peso stayed within a narrow range for seven years and then devalued 27 percent during fiscal 2009, which resulted in our recording of a $2.2 million currency loss. venezuela we are exposed to risks of currency devaluation in venezuela primarily as a result of bolivar fuerte (bsf) net working capital (current assets minus current liabilities) balances, which at fiscal year end 2009 was approximately $71.4 million u.s. dollar equivalent. while we are unable to predict the potential magnitude and timing of future devaluation in venezuela, if current activity levels continue and if a 10 percent to 100 percent devaluation were to occur, we could experience potential currency devaluation losses ranging from approximately $6.6 million to $35.7 million. while the collection of the receivables is difficult and time consuming due to pdvsa policies and procedures, at this time we have no reason to believe the amounts owed will not be paid. historically, pdvsa payments on accounts receivable have, by traditional business measurements, been slower than those of our other customers. however, the failure of pdvsa to make payments on outstanding receivables, or a continued increase in its delay in making payments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. government regulations and environmental laws could adversely affect our business. many aspects of our operations are subject to government regulation, including those relating to drilling practices and methods and the level of taxation. in addition, the united states and various other countries have environmental regulations which affect drilling operations. drilling contractors may be liable for damages resulting from pollution. under united states regulations, drilling contractors must establish financial responsibility to cover potential liability for pollution of offshore waters. generally, we are indemnified under drilling contracts from liability arising from pollution, except in certain cases of surface pollution. however, the enforceability of indemnification provisions in foreign countries may be questionable. we believe that we are in substantial compliance with all legislation and regulations affecting our operations in the drilling of oil and gas wells and in controlling the discharge of wastes. to date, compliance has not materially affected our capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position, although compliance measures may add to the costs of drilling operations. additional legislation or regulation may reasonably be anticipated, and the effect thereof on our operations cannot be predicted. variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly. we have in place a $400 million senior unsecured credit facility which expires in december of 2011. we had $70 million borrowed and two letters of credit totaling $21.9 million outstanding against the facility at september 30, 2009. as of november 20, 2009, borrowings under the facility had declined to $40 million. the interest rate on the borrowings is based on a spread over libor and we pay a commitment fee based on the unused balance of the facility. the spread over libor as well as the commitment fee is determined according to a scale based on a ratio of our total debt to total capitalization. we also have the option to borrow at the prime rate for maturities of less than 30 days. interest rates could rise for various reasons in the future and increase our total interest expense, depending upon the amount borrowed against the credit lines. 9 table of contents our securities portfolio may lose significant value due to a decline in equity prices and other market-related risks, thus impacting our debt ratio and financial strength. at september 30, 2009, we had a portfolio of securities with a total fair value of $360 million. these securities are subject to a wide variety of market-related risks that could substantially reduce or increase the fair value of our holdings. except for investments in limited partnerships carried at cost, the portfolio is recorded at fair value on our balance sheet with changes in unrealized after-tax value reflected in the equity section of our balance sheet. any reduction in fair value would have an impact on our debt ratio and financial strength. at november 19, 2009, the fair value of the portfolio had increased to approximately $387 million. the loss of one or a number of our large customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in fiscal 2009, we received approximately 59 percent of our consolidated operating revenues from our ten largest contract drilling customers and approximately 31 percent of our consolidated operating revenues from our three largest customers (including their affiliates). we believe that our relationship with all of these customers is good; however, the loss of one or more of our larger customers would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. competition for experienced technical personnel may negatively impact our operations or financial results. we utilize highly skilled personnel in operating and supporting our businesses. in times of high utilization, it can be difficult to find qualified individuals. although to date our operations have not been materially affected by competition for personnel, an inability to obtain a sufficient number of qualified personnel could materially impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. new technologies may cause our drilling methods and equipment to become less competitive, resulting in an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. although we take measures to ensure that we use advanced oil and natural gas drilling technology, changes in technology or improvements in competitors' equipment could make our equipment less competitive or require significant capital investments to keep our equipment competitive. 10 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 20 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information required by this item may be found under the caption "risk factors" beginning on page 6 of this report and on, and is incorporated by reference to, the following pages of our annual report (exhibit 13 to this form 10-k) under management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and in the notes to consolidated financial statements: market risk page foreign currency exchange rate risk 36 credit risk 38 commodity price risk 39 interest rate risk 40 equity price risk 41risk factors 5 risk factors. the following table sets forth the total backlog by reportable segment as of september 30, 2010 and 2009, and the percentage of the september 30, 2010 backlog not reasonably expected to be filled in fiscal 2011: total backlog revenue percentage not reasonably expected to be filled in fiscal 2011 reportable segment 9/30/2010 9/30/2009 (in millions) u.s. land $ 1,999 $ 2,016 56.4% offshore 139 169 71.9% international 311 343 69.8% $ 2,449 $ 2,528 3 table of contents u.s. land drilling at the end of september 2010, 2009 and 2008, we had 220, 201 and 185, respectively, of our land rigs available for work in the united states. the total number of rigs at the end of fiscal 2010 increased by a net of 19 rigs from the end of fiscal 2009. the increase was due to 14 new flexrigs having been completed and placed into service, 6 transferred from our international operations and 1 rig transferred to our international operations. our u.s. land operations contributed approximately 75 percent ($1,412.5 million) of our consolidated operating revenues during fiscal 2010, compared with approximately 78 percent ($1,441.2 million) of consolidated operating revenues during fiscal 2009 and approximately 82 percent ($1,542.0 million) of consolidated operating revenues during fiscal 2008. rig utilization was approximately 73 percent in fiscal 2010 and approximately 68 percent in fiscal 2009, down from approximately 96 percent in fiscal 2008. our fleet of flexrigs maintained an average utilization of approximately 87 percent during fiscal 2010 while our conventional and highly mobile rigs had an average utilization rate of approximately 12 percent. a rig is considered to be utilized when it is operated or being mobilized or demobilized under contract. at the close of fiscal 2010, 183 land rigs were working out of 220 available rigs. offshore drilling our offshore operations contributed approximately 11 percent in both fiscal years 2010 and 2009 ($202.7 million in fiscal 2010 and $204.7 million in fiscal 2009) of the company's consolidated operating revenues compared to 8 percent in fiscal year 2008 ($154.5) of the company's consolidated operating revenues. rig utilization in fiscal 2010 was approximately 80 percent compared to approximately 89 percent in fiscal 2009 and approximately 75 percent in fiscal 2008. at the end of fiscal 2010, we had seven of our nine offshore platform rigs under contract and continued to work under management contracts for three customer-owned rigs. revenues from drilling services performed for our largest offshore drilling customer totaled approximately 34 percent of offshore revenues during fiscal 2010. international land drilling general our international land operations contributed approximately 13 percent ($247.2 million) of our consolidated operating revenues during fiscal 2010, compared with approximately 10 percent ($187.1 million) of consolidated operating revenues during fiscal 2009 and 9 percent ($161.1 million) in fiscal 2008. rig utilization in fiscal 2010 was 71 percent, 70 percent in fiscal 2009 and 72 percent in fiscal 2008. colombia at the end of fiscal 2010, we had six rigs in colombia. our utilization rate was approximately 71 percent during fiscal 2010, approximately 88 percent during fiscal 2009 and approximately 87 percent during fiscal 2008. revenues generated by colombian drilling operations contributed approximately 3 percent ($57.5 million) of our consolidated operating revenues during fiscal 2010, compared with 4 percent ($77.3 million) of our consolidated operating revenues during fiscal 2009, and 2 percent ($42.4 million) of our consolidated operating revenues during fiscal 2008. revenues from drilling services performed for our largest customer in colombia totaled approximately 2 percent of consolidated operating revenues and approximately 12 percent of international operating revenues during fiscal 2010. the colombian drilling contracts are primarily with large international or national oil companies. ecuador at the end of fiscal 2010, we had four rigs in ecuador. the utilization rate in ecuador was 100 percent in both fiscal 2010 and 2009, compared to 59 percent in fiscal 2008. revenues generated by ecuadorian drilling operations contributed approximately 3 percent of our consolidated operating revenues during fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008 ($52.1 million, $52.3 million and $55.1 million, respectively). revenues from drilling services performed for the largest customer in ecuador totaled approximately 2 percent of consolidated operating revenues and approximately 16 percent of international operating revenues during fiscal 2010. the ecuadorian drilling contracts are primarily with large international or national oil companies. 4 argentina at the end of fiscal 2010, we had nine rigs in argentina. our utilization rate was approximately 53 percent during fiscal 2010, approximately 52 percent during fiscal 2009 and approximately 88 percent during fiscal 2008. revenues generated by argentine drilling operations contributed approximately 3 percent ($55.9 million) of our consolidated operating revenues during fiscal 2010 compared with approximately 2 percent in both fiscal years 2009 and 2008 ($42.1 million in fiscal 2009 and $44.4 million in fiscal 2008). revenues from drilling services performed for our two largest customers in argentina totaled approximately 2 percent of consolidated operating revenues and approximately 19 percent of international operating revenues during fiscal 2010. the argentine drilling contracts are primarily with large international or national oil companies other locations in addition to our operations discussed above, at the end of fiscal 2010 we had two rigs in tunisia, five rigs in mexico, one rig in bahrain and one rig en route to bahrain. financial information relating to revenues, total assets and operating income by reportable operating segments may be found on, and is incorporated by reference to, pages 78 through 82 of our annual report (exhibit 13 to this form 10-k). employees we had 6,396 employees within the united states (13 of which were part-time employees) and 1,092 employees in international operations as of september 30, 2010. available information information relating to our internet address and information relating to our securities and exchange commission ("sec") filings may be found on, and is incorporated by reference to, page 84 of our annual report (exhibit 13 to this form 10-k). item 1a. risk factors in addition to the risk factors discussed elsewhere in this report, we caution that the following "risk factors" could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. oil and natural gas prices are volatile, and low prices could negatively affect our financial results in the future. our operations can be materially affected by low oil and gas prices. we believe that any significant reduction in oil and gas prices could depress the level of exploration and production activity and result in a corresponding decline in demand for our services. worldwide military, political and economic events, including initiatives by the organization of petroleum exporting countries, may affect both the demand for, and the supply of, oil and gas. fluctuations during the last few years in the demand and supply of oil and gas have contributed to, and are likely to continue to contribute to, price volatility. any prolonged reduction in demand for our services could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. a sluggish global economy may affect our business. as a result of volatility in oil and natural gas prices and a continuing sluggish global economic environment, we are unable to determine whether our customers will further reduce spending on exploration and development drilling or whether customers and/or vendors and suppliers will be able to access financing necessary to sustain their current reduced level of operations, fulfill their commitments and/or fund future operations and obligations. the current global economic environment may continue to impact industry fundamentals and result in reduced demand for drilling rigs. these conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business. 5 the contract drilling business is highly competitive. competition in contract drilling involves such factors as price, rig availability, efficiency, condition and type of equipment, reputation, operating safety, and customer relations. competition is primarily on a regional basis and may vary significantly by region at any particular time. land drilling rigs can be readily moved from one region to another in response to changes in levels of activity, and an oversupply of rigs in any region may result, leading to increased price competition. although many contracts for drilling services are awarded based solely on price, we have been successful in establishing long-term relationships with certain customers which have allowed us to secure drilling work even though we may not have been the lowest bidder for such work. we have continued to attempt to differentiate our services based upon our flexrigs and our engineering design expertise, operational efficiency, safety and environmental awareness. this strategy is less effective when lower demand for drilling services intensifies price competition and makes it more difficult or impossible to compete on any basis other than price. also, future improvements in operational efficiency and safety by our competitors could negatively affect our ability to differentiate our services. the loss of one or a number of our large customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in fiscal 2010, we received approximately 57 percent of our consolidated operating revenues from our ten largest contract drilling customers and approximately 29 percent of our consolidated operating revenues from our three largest customers (including their affiliates). we believe that our relationship with all of these customers is good; however, the loss of one or more of our larger customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. international uncertainties and local laws could adversely affect our business. international operations are subject to certain political, economic and other uncertainties not encountered in u.s. operations, including increased risks of terrorism, kidnapping of employees, expropriation of equipment as well as expropriation of a particular oil company operator's property and drilling rights, taxation policies, foreign exchange restrictions, currency rate fluctuations and general hazards associated with foreign sovereignty over certain areas in which operations are conducted. on june 30, 2010 the venezuelan government seized 11 rigs owned by our venezuelan subsidiary and associated real and personal property. there can be no assurance that there will not be changes in local laws, regulations and administrative requirements or the interpretation thereof which could have a material adverse effect on the profitability of our operations or on our ability to continue operations in certain areas. because of the impact of local laws, our future operations in certain areas may be conducted through entities in which local citizens own interests and through entities (including joint ventures) in which we hold only a minority interest or pursuant to arrangements under which we conduct operations under contract to local entities. while we believe that neither operating through such entities nor pursuant to such arrangements would have a material adverse effect on our operations or revenues, there can be no assurance that we will in all cases be able to structure or restructure our operations to conform to local law (or the administration thereof) on terms we find acceptable. although we attempt to minimize the potential impact of such risks by operating in more than one geographical area, during fiscal 2010, approximately 13 percent of our consolidated operating revenues were generated from the international contract drilling business. during fiscal 2010, approximately 67 percent of the international operating revenues were from operations in south america and approximately 69 percent of south american operating revenues were from argentina and colombia. our operations are subject to a number of operational risks, including weather. our drilling operations are subject to the many hazards inherent in the business, including inclement weather, blowouts and well fires. these hazards could cause personal injury, suspend drilling operations, seriously damage or destroy the equipment involved and cause substantial damage to producing formations and the surrounding areas. our offshore drilling operations are also subject to potentially greater 6 environmental liability, adverse sea conditions and platform damage or destruction due to collision with aircraft or marine vessels. specifically, we operate several platform rigs in the gulf of mexico. the gulf of mexico experiences hurricanes and other extreme weather conditions on a frequent basis, the frequency of which may increase with any climate change. damage caused by high winds and turbulent seas could potentially curtail operations on such platform rigs for significant periods of time until the damage can be repaired. moreover, even if our platform rigs are not directly damaged by such storms, we may experience disruptions in operations due to damage to customer platforms and other related facilities in the area. we have a new-build rig assembly facility located near the houston, texas ship channel. also, our principal fabricator and other vendors are located in the gulf coast region. due to their location, these facilities are exposed to potentially greater hurricane damage. our operations present risks of loss that, if not insured or indemnified against, could adversely affect our results of operations. with the exception of "named wind storm" risk in the gulf of mexico, we insure rigs and related equipment at values that approximate the current replacement cost on the inception date of the policy. we self-insure a $1.0 million per occurrence deductible, as well as 10 percent of the estimated replacement cost of offshore rigs and 30 percent of the estimated replacement cost for land rigs and equipment. we also carry insurance with varying deductibles and coverage limits with respect to offshore platform rigs and "named wind storm" risk in the gulf of mexico. rig property insurance coverage expires in may 2011. we are unable to obtain significant amounts of insurance to cover risks of underground reservoir damage; however, we are generally indemnified under our drilling contracts from this risk. the company self-insures a number of other risks including loss of earnings and business interruption. we have insurance coverage for comprehensive general liability, automobile liability, worker's compensation and employer's liability, and certain other specific risks. generally, casualty deductibles range from $1 million to $2.5 million per occurrence, depending on the type of claim as well as whether a claim occurs inside or outside of the united states. insurance is purchased over deductibles to reduce our exposure to catastrophic events. we retain a significant portion of our expected losses under our worker's compensation, general liability and automobile liability programs. we record estimates for incurred outstanding liabilities for unresolved worker's compensation, general liability and for claims that are incurred but not reported. estimates are based on adjuster estimates, historical experience or statistical methods that we believe are reliable. nonetheless, insurance estimates include certain assumptions and management judgments regarding the frequency and severity of claims, claim development and settlement practices. unanticipated changes in these factors may produce materially different amounts of expense that would be reported under these programs. no assurance can be given that all or a portion of our coverage will not be cancelled during fiscal 2011 or that insurance coverage will continue to be available at rates considered reasonable. no assurance can be given that our insurance and indemnification arrangements will adequately protect us against all liabilities that could result from the hazards of our drilling operations. incurring a liability for which we are not fully insured or indemnified could materially affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we depend on a limited number of vendors, some of which are thinly capitalized and the loss of any of which could disrupt our operations. certain key rig components are either purchased from or fabricated by a single or limited number of vendors, and we have no long-term contracts with many of these vendors. shortages could occur in these essential components due to an interruption of supply or increased demands in the industry. if we are unable to procure certain of such rig components, we would be required to reduce our rig construction or other operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if our principal fabricator, located on the texas gulf coast, was unable or unwilling to continue fabricating rig components, then we would have to transfer this work to other acceptable fabricators. this transfer could result in significant delay in the completion of new flexrigs. any significant interruption in 7 the fabrication of rig components could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. certain key rig components are obtained from vendors that are, in some cases, thinly capitalized, independent companies that generate significant portions of their business from us or from a small group of companies in the energy industry. these vendors may be disproportionately affected by any loss of business, downturn in the energy industry or reduction or unavailability of credit. therefore, disruptions in rig component delivery may occur, and such disruptions and terminations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our securities portfolio may lose significant value due to a decline in equity prices and other market-related risks, thus impacting our debt ratio and financial strength. at september 30, 2010, we had a portfolio of securities with a total fair value of $326 million. these securities are subject to a wide variety of market-related risks that could substantially reduce or increase the fair value of our holdings. except for investments in limited partnerships carried at cost, the portfolio is recorded at fair value on our balance sheet with changes in unrealized after-tax value reflected in the equity section of our balance sheet. any reduction in fair value would have an impact on our debt ratio and financial strength. at november 18, 2010, the fair value of the portfolio had increased to approximately $397 million. government regulations and environmental laws could adversely affect our business. many aspects of our operations are subject to government regulation, including those relating to drilling practices and methods and the level of taxation. in addition, the united states and various other countries have environmental regulations which affect drilling operations. drilling contractors may be liable for damages resulting from pollution. under united states regulations, drilling contractors must establish financial responsibility to cover potential liability for pollution of offshore waters. generally, we are indemnified under drilling contracts from liability arising from pollution, except in certain cases of surface pollution. however, the enforceability of indemnification provisions in foreign countries may be questionable. we believe that we are in substantial compliance with all legislation and regulations affecting our operations in the drilling of oil and gas wells and in controlling the discharge of wastes. to date, compliance has not materially affected our capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position, although compliance measures may add to the costs of drilling operations. additional legislation or regulation may reasonably be anticipated, and the effect thereof on our operations cannot be predicted. regulation of greenhouse gases and climate change could have a negative impact on our business. some scientific studies have suggested that emissions of certain gases, commonly referred to as "greenhouse gases" ("ghgs") and including carbon dioxide and methane, may be contributing to warming of the earth's atmosphere and other climatic changes. in response to such studies, the issue of climate change and the effect of ghg emissions, in particular emissions from fossil fuels, is attracting increasing attention worldwide. we are aware of the increasing focus of local, state, national and international regulatory bodies on ghg emissions and climate change issues. we are aware that the united states congress is actively considering legislation to reduce ghg emissions. although it is not possible at this time to predict whether proposed legislation or regulations will be adopted, any such future laws and regulations could result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions. any additional costs or operating restrictions associated with legislation or regulations regarding ghg emissions could materially impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, because our business depends on the level of activity in the oil and natural gas industry, existing or future laws, regulations, treaties or international agreements related to ghgs and climate change, including incentives to conserve energy or use alternative energy sources, could have an adverse impact on our business if such laws, regulations, treaties or international agreements reduce the worldwide demand for oil and natural gas or otherwise result in reduced economic activity generally. a reduced demand for oil and natural gas or reduced economic activity could materially impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. 8 new legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays. the u.s. environmental protection agency, or the epa, has commenced a study of the potential environmental impacts of hydraulic fracturing, including the impact on drinking water sources and public health, and a committee of the u.s. house of representatives is also conducting an investigation of hydraulic fracturing practices. legislation has been introduced before congress to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the fracturing process. in addition, some states have and others are considering adopting regulations that could restrict hydraulic fracturing in certain circumstances. any new laws, regulation or permitting requirements regarding hydraulic fracturing could lead to operational delay, or increased operating costs or third party or governmental claims, and could result in additional burdens that could serve to delay or limit the drilling services we provide to third parties whose drilling operations could be impacted by these regulations or increase our costs of compliance and doing business as well as delay the development of unconventional gas resources from shale formations which are not commercial without the use of hydraulic fracturing. our business and results of operations may be adversely affected by foreign currency devaluation. contracts for work in foreign countries generally provide for payment in united states dollars, except for amounts required to meet local expenses. however, government-owned petroleum companies may in the future require that a greater proportion of these payments be made in local currencies. based upon current information, we believe that our exposure to potential losses from currency devaluation in foreign countries is immaterial. with the exception of argentina, all receivables and payments in foreign counties are currently in u.s. dollars. cash balances are also kept at an insignificant level which assists in reducing exposure. in argentina we invoice in u.s. dollars and are paid in pesos equivalent to the dollar invoice. our argentine subsidiary then remits the dollars to the parent by exchanging pesos through the argentine central bank. while the argentine peso was devalued in both 2009 and 2010, the devaluation losses in those years were not material to our financial statements. fixed-term contracts may in certain instances be terminated without an early termination payment. fixed-term drilling contracts customarily provide for termination at the election of the customer, with an "early termination payment" to be paid to us if a contract is terminated prior to the expiration of the fixed term. however, under certain limited circumstances, such as destruction of a drilling rig, our bankruptcy, sustained unacceptable performance by us or delivery of a rig beyond certain grace and/or liquidated damage periods, no early termination payment would be paid to us. even if an early termination payment is owed to us, the current global economic environment may affect the customer's ability to pay the early termination payment. variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly. we have in place a $400 million senior unsecured credit facility which expires in december of 2011. we had $10 million borrowed and two letters of credit totaling $21.9 million outstanding against the facility at september 30, 2010. as of november 18, 2010, the $10 million outstanding balance had been paid. the interest rate on the borrowings is based on a spread over libor and we pay a commitment fee based on the unused balance of the facility. the spread over libor as well as the commitment fee is determined according to a scale based on a ratio of our total debt to total capitalization. we also have the option to borrow at the prime rate for maturities of less than 30 days. interest rates could rise for various reasons in the future and increase our total interest expense, depending upon the amount borrowed against the credit lines. shortages of drilling equipment and supplies could adversely affect our operations. the contract drilling business is highly cyclical. during periods of increased demand for contract drilling services, delays in delivery and shortages of drilling equipment and supplies can occur. these risks are intensified during periods when the industry experiences significant new drilling rig construction or refurbishment. any such delays or shortages could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 9 table of contents new technologies may cause our drilling methods and equipment to become less competitive, resulting in an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. although we take measures to ensure that we use advanced oil and natural gas drilling technology, changes in technology or improvements in competitors' equipment could make our equipment less competitive or require significant capital investments to keep our equipment competitive. competition for experienced technical personnel may negatively impact our operations or financial results. we utilize highly skilled personnel in operating and supporting our businesses. in times of high utilization, it can be difficult to retain, and in some cases find, qualified individuals. although to date our operations have not been materially affected by competition for personnel, an inability to obtain or find a sufficient number of qualified personnel could materially impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. improvements in or new discoveries of alternative energy technologies could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. since our business depends on the level of activity in the oil and natural gas industry, any improvement in or new discoveries of alternative energy technologies that increase the use of alternative forms of energy and reduce the demand for oil and natural gas could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 18 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information required by this item may be found under the caption "risk factors" beginning on page 5 of this report and on, and is incorporated by reference to, the following pages of our annual report (exhibit 13 to this form 10-k) under management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and in the notes to consolidated financial statements: market risk page foreign currency exchange rate risk 37-38 commodity price risk 38-39 interest rate risk 39-40 equity price risk 40-41risk factors 6 risk factors. u.s. land drilling at the end of september 2011, 2010 and 2009, we had 248, 220 and 201, respectively, of our land rigs available for work in the united states. the total number of rigs at the end of fiscal 2011 increased by a net of 28 rigs from the end of fiscal 2010. the increase is due to 35 new flexrigs being completed and placed into service, 5 transferred from international operations, 1 rig transferred to international operations, 4 rigs sold during fiscal 2011 and 7 mechanical highly mobile rigs being removed from service. our u.s. land operations contributed approximately 83 percent ($2,100.5 million) of our consolidated operating revenues during fiscal 2011, compared with approximately 75 percent ($1,412.5 million) of consolidated operating revenues during fiscal 2010 and approximately 78 percent ($1,441.2 million) of consolidated operating revenues during fiscal 2009. rig utilization was approximately 86 percent in fiscal 2011 and approximately 73 percent in fiscal 2010, up from approximately 68 percent in fiscal 2009. our fleet of flexrigs increased to an average utilization of approximately 99 percent during fiscal 2011, while our conventional and highly mobile rigs had a combined average utilization of approximately 11 percent. a rig is considered to be utilized when it is operated or being mobilized or demobilized under contract. at the close of fiscal 2011, 224 land rigs were working out of 248 available rigs. offshore drilling our offshore operations contributed approximately 8 percent in fiscal year 2011 ($201.4 million) of our consolidated operating revenue compared to 11 percent in both fiscal years 2010 and 2009 ($202.7 million and $204.7 million, respectively) of our consolidated operating revenues. rig utilization in fiscal 2011 was approximately 77 percent compared to approximately 80 percent in fiscal 2010 and approximately 89 percent in fiscal 2009. at the end of fiscal 2011, we had eight of our nine offshore platform rigs under contract and continued to work under management contracts for three customer-owned rigs. revenues from drilling services performed for our largest offshore drilling customer totaled approximately 53 percent of offshore revenues during fiscal 2011. 4 table of contents international land drilling general our international land operations contributed approximately 9 percent ($226.8 million) of our consolidated operating revenues during fiscal 2011, compared with approximately 13 percent ($247.2 million) of consolidated operating revenues during fiscal 2010 and 10 percent ($187.1 million) in fiscal 2009. rig utilization in fiscal 2011 was 70 percent, 71 percent in fiscal 2010 and 70 percent in fiscal 2009. argentina at the end of fiscal 2011, we had nine rigs in argentina. our utilization rate was approximately 49 percent during fiscal 2011, approximately 53 percent during fiscal 2010 and approximately 52 percent during fiscal 2009. revenues generated by argentine drilling operations contributed approximately 2 percent ($44.2 million) of our consolidated operating revenues during fiscal 2011 compared with approximately 3 percent ($55.9 million) in fiscal 2010 and 2 percent ($42.1 million) in fiscal 2009. revenues from drilling services performed for our two largest customers in argentina totaled approximately 1 percent of consolidated operating revenues and approximately 15 percent of international operating revenues during fiscal 2011. the argentine drilling contracts are primarily with large international or national oil companies. colombia at the end of fiscal 2011, we had six rigs in colombia. our utilization rate was approximately 83 percent during fiscal 2011, approximately 71 percent during fiscal 2010 and approximately 88 percent during fiscal 2009. revenues generated by colombian drilling operations contributed approximately 3 percent of our consolidated operating revenues during fiscal 2011 and 2010 ($74.5 million and $57.5 million in fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively), compared with 4 percent ($77.3 million) of our consolidated operating revenues during fiscal 2009. revenues from drilling services performed for our largest customer in colombia totaled approximately 1 percent of consolidated operating revenues and approximately 12 percent of international operating revenues during fiscal 2011. the colombian drilling contracts are primarily with large international or national oil companies. ecuador at the end of fiscal 2011, we had four rigs in ecuador. the utilization rate in ecuador was 85 percent in fiscal 2011, compared to 100 percent in fiscal 2010 and 2009. revenues generated by ecuadorian drilling operations contributed approximately 2 percent ($42.6 million) of our consolidated operating revenues during fiscal 2011 compared with approximately 3 percent in both fiscal years 2010 and 2009 ($52.1 million and $52.3 million in fiscal 2010 and 2009, respectively). revenues from drilling services performed for the largest customer in ecuador totaled approximately 1 percent of consolidated operating revenues and approximately 13 percent of international operating revenues during fiscal 2011. the ecuadorian drilling contracts are primarily with large international or national oil companies. other locations in addition to our operations discussed above, at the end of fiscal 2011 we had two rigs in tunisia, and three rigs in bahrain. an additional rig is en route to bahrain subsequent to september 30, 2011. financial information relating to revenues, total assets and operating income by reportable operating segments may be found on, and is incorporated by reference to, pages 71 through 75 of our annual report (exhibit 13 to this form 10-k). employees we had 7,694 employees within the united states (17 of which were part-time employees) and 1,030 employees in international operations as of september 30, 2011. 5 table of contents available information information relating to our internet address and information relating to our securities and exchange commission ("sec") filings may be found on, and is incorporated by reference to, page 77 of our annual report (exhibit 13 to this form 10-k). item 1a. risk factors in addition to the risk factors discussed elsewhere in this report, we caution that the following "risk factors" could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our offshore and land operations are subject to a number of operational risks, including environmental and weather risks, which could expose us to significant losses and damage claims. we are not fully insured against all of these risks and our contractual indemnity provisions may not fully protect us. our drilling operations are subject to the many hazards inherent in the business, including inclement weather, blowouts, well fires, loss of well control, pollution, and reservoir damage. these hazards could cause significant environmental damage, personal injury, suspension of drilling operations, serious damage or destruction of equipment and property and substantial damage to producing formations and surrounding lands and waters. our offshore drilling operations are also subject to potentially greater environmental liability, including pollution of offshore waters and related negative impact on wildlife and habitat, adverse sea conditions and platform damage or destruction due to collision with aircraft or marine vessels. our offshore operations may also be negatively affected by blowouts or uncontrolled release of oil by third parties whose offshore operations are unrelated to our operations. we operate several platform rigs in the gulf of mexico. the gulf of mexico experiences hurricanes and other extreme weather conditions on a frequent basis, the frequency of which may increase with any climate change. damage caused by high winds and turbulent seas could potentially curtail operations on such platform rigs for significant periods of time until the damage can be repaired. moreover, even if our platform rigs are not directly damaged by such storms, we may experience disruptions in operations due to damage to customer platforms and other related facilities in the area. we have a new-build rig assembly facility located near the houston, texas ship channel, and our principal fabricator and other vendors are also located in the gulf coast region. due to their location, these facilities are exposed to potentially greater hurricane damage. we have indemnification agreements with many of our customers and we also maintain liability and other forms of insurance. in general, our drilling contracts contain contractual rights to indemnity from our customer for, among other things, pollution and reservoir damage. however, our contractual rights to indemnification may be unenforceable or limited due to negligent or willful acts of commission or omission by us, our subcontractors and/or suppliers. our customers may dispute, or be unable to meet, their contractual indemnification obligations to us. accordingly, we may be unable to transfer these risks to our drilling customers by contract or indemnification agreements. incurring a liability for which we are not fully indemnified or insured could have a material adverse effect our business, financial condition and results of operations. with the exception of "named wind storm" risk in the gulf of mexico, we insure rigs and related equipment at values that approximate the current replacement cost on the inception date of the policy. however, we self-insure our deductible as well as a significant portion of the estimated replacement cost of our offshore rigs and our land rigs and equipment. we also carry insurance with varying deductibles and coverage limits with respect to offshore platform rigs and "named wind storm" risk in the gulf of mexico. we have insurance coverage for comprehensive general liability, automobile liability, worker's compensation and employer's liability, and certain other specific risks. insurance is purchased over deductibles to reduce our exposure to catastrophic events. we retain a significant portion of our expected losses under our worker's compensation, general liability and automobile liability programs. the company self-insures a number of other risks including loss of earnings and business interruption. we are unable to obtain significant amounts of insurance to cover risks of underground reservoir damage; however, we are generally indemnified under our drilling contracts from this risk. if a significant accident or other event occurs and is not fully covered by insurance or an enforceable or recoverable indemnity from a customer, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial 6 table of contents condition and results of operations. our insurance will not in all situations provide sufficient funds to protect us from all liabilities that could result from our drilling operations. our coverage includes aggregate policy limits. as a result, we retain the risk for any loss in excess of these limits. no assurance can be given that all or a portion of our coverage will not be cancelled during fiscal 2012, that insurance coverage will continue to be available at rates considered reasonable or that our coverage will respond to a specific loss. further, we may experience difficulties in collecting from our insurers or our insurers may deny all or a portion of our claims for insurance coverage. oil and natural gas prices are volatile, and low prices could negatively affect our financial results in the future. our operations can be materially affected by low oil and gas prices. we believe that any significant reduction in oil and gas prices could depress the level of exploration and production activity and result in a corresponding decline in demand for our services. worldwide military, political and economic events, including initiatives by the organization of petroleum exporting countries, may affect both the demand for, and the supply of, oil and gas. fluctuations during the last few years in the demand and supply of oil and gas have contributed to, and are likely to continue to contribute to, price volatility. any prolonged reduction in demand for our services could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. a sluggish global economy may affect our business. as a result of volatility in oil and natural gas prices and a continuing sluggish global economic environment, we are unable to determine whether our customers will maintain spending on exploration and development drilling or whether customers and/or vendors and suppliers will be able to access financing necessary to sustain their current level of operations, fulfill their commitments and/or fund future operations and obligations. the current global economic environment may impact industry fundamentals and result in reduced demand for drilling rigs. these conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the contract drilling business is highly competitive. competition in contract drilling involves such factors as price, rig availability, efficiency, condition and type of equipment, reputation, operating safety, environmental impact, and customer relations. competition is primarily on a regional basis and may vary significantly by region at any particular time. land drilling rigs can be readily moved from one region to another in response to changes in levels of activity, and an oversupply of rigs in any region may result, leading to increased price competition. although many contracts for drilling services are awarded based solely on price, we have been successful in establishing long-term relationships with certain customers which have allowed us to secure drilling work even though we may not have been the lowest bidder for such work. we have continued to attempt to differentiate our services based upon our flexrigs and our engineering design expertise, operational efficiency, safety and environmental awareness. this strategy is less effective when lower demand for drilling services intensifies price competition and makes it more difficult or impossible to compete on any basis other than price. also, future improvements in operational efficiency and safety by our competitors could negatively affect our ability to differentiate our services. the loss of one or a number of our large customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in fiscal 2011, we received approximately 57 percent of our consolidated operating revenues from our ten largest contract drilling customers and approximately 32 percent of our consolidated operating revenues from our three largest customers (including their affiliates). we believe that our relationship with all of these customers is good; however, the loss of one or more of our larger customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 7 table of contents international uncertainties and local laws could adversely affect our business. international operations are subject to certain political, economic and other uncertainties not encountered in u.s. operations, including increased risks of terrorism, kidnapping of employees, expropriation of equipment as well as expropriation of a particular oil company operator's property and drilling rights, taxation policies, foreign exchange restrictions, currency rate fluctuations and general hazards associated with foreign sovereignty over certain areas in which operations are conducted. on june 30, 2010, the venezuelan government seized 11 rigs and associated real and personal property owned by our venezuelan subsidiary. there can be no assurance that there will not be changes in local laws, regulations and administrative requirements or the interpretation thereof which could have a material adverse effect on the profitability of our operations or on our ability to continue operations in certain areas. because of the impact of local laws, our future operations in certain areas may be conducted through entities in which local citizens own interests and through entities (including joint ventures) in which we hold only a minority interest or pursuant to arrangements under which we conduct operations under contract to local entities. while we believe that neither operating through such entities nor pursuant to such arrangements would have a material adverse effect on our operations or revenues, there can be no assurance that we will in all cases be able to structure or restructure our operations to conform to local law (or the administration thereof) on terms we find acceptable. although we attempt to minimize the potential impact of such risks by operating in more than one geographical area, during fiscal 2011, approximately 9 percent of our consolidated operating revenues were generated from the international contract drilling business. during fiscal 2011, approximately 71 percent of the international operating revenues were from operations in south america. all of the south american operating revenues were from argentina, colombia and ecuador. we depend on a limited number of vendors, some of which are thinly capitalized and the loss of any of which could disrupt our operations. certain key rig components are either purchased from or fabricated by a single or limited number of vendors, and we have no long-term contracts with many of these vendors. shortages could occur in these essential components due to an interruption of supply or increased demands in the industry. if we are unable to procure certain of such rig components, we would be required to reduce our rig construction or other operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if our principal fabricator, located on the texas gulf coast, was unable or unwilling to continue fabricating rig components, then we would have to transfer this work to other acceptable fabricators. this transfer could result in significant delay in the completion of new flexrigs. any significant interruption in the fabrication of rig components could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. certain key rig components are obtained from vendors that are, in some cases, thinly capitalized, independent companies that generate significant portions of their business from us or from a small group of companies in the energy industry. these vendors may be disproportionately affected by any loss of business, downturn in the energy industry or reduction or unavailability of credit. therefore, disruptions in rig component delivery may occur, and such disruptions and terminations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 8 table of contents our securities portfolio may lose significant value due to a decline in equity prices and other market-related risks, thus impacting our debt ratio and financial strength. at september 30, 2011, we had a portfolio of securities with a total fair value of $348 million. these securities are subject to a wide variety of market-related risks that could substantially reduce or increase the fair value of our holdings. except for investments in limited partnerships carried at cost, the portfolio is recorded at fair value on our balance sheet with changes in unrealized after-tax value reflected in the equity section of our balance sheet. any reduction in fair value would have an impact on our debt ratio and financial strength. at november 17, 2011, the fair value of the portfolio had increased to approximately $431.2 million. government regulations and environmental laws could adversely affect our business. many aspects of our operations are subject to government regulation, including those relating to drilling practices, pollution, disposal of hazardous substances and oil field waste. the united states and various other countries have environmental regulations which affect drilling operations. the cost of compliance with these laws could be substantial. a failure to comply with these laws and regulations could expose us to substantial civil and criminal penalties. in addition, environmental laws and regulations in the united states impose a variety of requirements on "responsible parties" related to the prevention of oil spills and liability for damages from such spills. as an owner and operator of drilling rigs, we may be deemed to be a responsible party under these laws and regulations. we believe that we are in substantial compliance with all legislation and regulations affecting our operations in the drilling of oil and gas wells and in controlling the discharge of wastes. to date, compliance costs have not materially affected our capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position, although compliance measures may add to the costs of drilling operations. additional legislation or regulation may reasonably be anticipated, and the effect thereof on our operations cannot be predicted. regulation of greenhouse gases and climate change could have a negative impact on our business. some scientific studies have suggested that emissions of certain gases, commonly referred to as "greenhouse gases" ("ghgs") and including carbon dioxide and methane, may be contributing to warming of the earth's atmosphere and other climatic changes. in response to such studies, the issue of climate change and the effect of ghg emissions, in particular emissions from fossil fuels, is attracting increasing attention worldwide. we are aware of the increasing focus of local, state, national and international regulatory bodies on ghg emissions and climate change issues. the united states congress is considering legislation to reduce ghg emissions. although it is not possible at this time to predict whether proposed legislation or regulations will be adopted, any such future laws and regulations could result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions. any additional costs or operating restrictions associated with legislation or regulations regarding ghg emissions could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. new legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays. members of the u.s congress and the u.s. environmental protection agency, or the epa, are reviewing more stringent regulation of hydraulic fracturing, a technology which involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into rock formations to stimulate oil and natural gas production. both the u.s. congress and the epa are studying whether there is any link between hydraulic fracturing and soil or ground water contamination or any impact on public health. legislation has been introduced before congress to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the fracturing process. in addition, some states have and others are considering adopting regulations that could restrict hydraulic fracturing in certain circumstances. in the event we engage in any hydraulic fracturing activities, any new laws, regulation or permitting requirements regarding hydraulic fracturing could lead to operational delays, increased operating costs or third party or governmental claims, additional burdens that could serve to delay or limit the drilling services we provide to third parties whose drilling operations could be impacted by these regulations, increased costs of compliance and doing 9 table of contents business, or delay in the development of unconventional gas resources from shale formations which are not commercial without the use of hydraulic fracturing. our business and results of operations may be adversely affected by foreign currency devaluation. contracts for work in foreign countries generally provide for payment in u.s. dollars; however, government-owned petroleum companies may in the future require that a greater proportion of these payments be made in local currencies. based upon current information, we believe that our exposure to potential losses from currency devaluation in foreign countries is immaterial. however, in the event of future payments in local currencies or an inability to exchange local currencies for u.s. dollars, we may incur currency devaluation losses which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. fixed term contracts may in certain instances be terminated without an early termination payment. fixed term drilling contracts customarily provide for termination at the election of the customer, with an "early termination payment" to be paid to us if a contract is terminated prior to the expiration of the fixed term. however, under certain limited circumstances, such as destruction of a drilling rig, our bankruptcy, sustained unacceptable performance by us or delivery of a rig beyond certain grace and/or liquidated damage periods, no early termination payment would be paid to us. even if an early termination payment is owed to us, the current global economic environment may affect the customer's ability to pay the early termination payment. shortages of drilling equipment and supplies could adversely affect our operations. the contract drilling business is highly cyclical. during periods of increased demand for contract drilling services, delays in delivery and shortages of drilling equipment and supplies can occur. these risks are intensified during periods when the industry experiences significant new drilling rig construction or refurbishment. any such delays or shortages could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. new technologies may cause our drilling methods and equipment to become less competitive, resulting in an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. although we take measures to ensure that we use advanced oil and natural gas drilling technology, changes in technology or improvements in competitors' equipment could make our equipment less competitive or require significant capital investments to keep our equipment competitive. any such changes in technology could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. competition for experienced personnel may negatively impact our operations or financial results. we utilize highly skilled personnel in operating and supporting our businesses. in times of high utilization, it can be difficult to retain, and in some cases find, qualified individuals. although to date our operations have not been materially affected by competition for personnel, an inability to obtain or find a sufficient number of qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. improvements in or new discoveries of alternative energy technologies could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. since our business depends on the level of activity in the oil and natural gas industry, any improvement in or new discoveries of alternative energy technologies that increase the use of alternative forms of energy and reduce the demand for oil and natural gas could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 10 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 21 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information required by this item may be found under the caption "risk factors" beginning on page of this report and on, and is incorporated by reference to, the following pages of our annual report (exhibit 13 to this form 10-k) under management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and in the notes to consolidated financial statements: market risk page foreign currency exchange rate risk 33-34 commodity price risk 34-35 interest rate risk 35-36 equity price risk 36risk factors 6 risk factors. 4 table of contents u.s. land drilling at the end of september 2012, 2011 and 2010, we had 282, 248 and 220, respectively, of our land rigs available for work in the united states. the total number of rigs at the end of fiscal 2012 increased by a net of 34 rigs from the end of fiscal 2011. the increase is due to 46 new flexrigs being completed and placed into service, 3 rigs transferred to international operations, 3 rigs sold during fiscal 2012, and 4 mechanical highly mobile rigs and 2 conventional rigs being removed from service. our u.s. land operations contributed approximately 85 percent ($2.7 billion) of our consolidated operating revenues during fiscal 2012, compared with approximately 83 percent ($2.1 billion) of consolidated operating revenues during fiscal 2011 and approximately 75 percent ($1.4 billion) of consolidated operating revenues during fiscal 2010. rig utilization was approximately 89 percent in fiscal 2012, approximately 86 percent in fiscal 2011 and approximately 73 percent in fiscal 2010. our fleet of flexrigs had an average utilization of approximately 97 percent during fiscal 2012, while our conventional and highly mobile rigs had an average utilization of approximately 11 percent. a rig is considered to be utilized when it is operated or being mobilized or demobilized under contract. at the close of fiscal 2012, 231 out of an available 282 land rigs were working. offshore drilling our offshore operations contributed approximately 6 percent in fiscal year 2012 ($189.1 million) of our consolidated operating revenues compared to approximately 8 percent ($201.4 million) of consolidated operating revenues during fiscal 2011 and 11 percent ($202.7 million) of consolidated operating revenues during fiscal 2010. rig utilization in fiscal 2012 was approximately 79 percent compared to approximately 77 percent in fiscal 2011 and approximately 80 percent in fiscal 2010. at the end of fiscal 2012, we had eight of our nine offshore platform rigs under contract and continued to work under management contracts for four customer-owned rigs. revenues from drilling services performed for our largest offshore drilling customer totaled approximately 56 percent of offshore revenues during fiscal 2012. international land drilling general our international land operations contributed approximately 9 percent ($270.0 million) of our consolidated operating revenues during fiscal 2012, compared with approximately 9 percent ($226.8 million) of consolidated operating revenues during fiscal 2011 and 13 percent ($247.2 million) in fiscal 2010. rig utilization in fiscal 2012 was 77 percent, 70 percent in fiscal 2011 and 71 percent in fiscal 2010. argentina at the end of fiscal 2012, we had nine rigs in argentina. our utilization rate was approximately 52 percent during fiscal 2012, approximately 49 percent during fiscal 2011 and approximately 53 percent during fiscal 2010. revenues generated by argentine drilling operations contributed approximately 2 percent in both fiscal years 2012 and 2011 ($54.3 million and $44.2 million, respectively) of our consolidated operating revenues compared with approximately 3 percent of consolidated operating revenues ($55.9 million) in fiscal 2010. revenues from drilling services performed for our two largest customers in argentina totaled approximately 2 percent of consolidated operating revenues and approximately 20 percent of international operating revenues during fiscal 2012. the argentine drilling contracts are primarily with large international or national oil companies. 5 table of contents colombia at the end of fiscal 2012, we had seven rigs in colombia. our utilization rate was approximately 79 percent during fiscal 2012, approximately 83 percent during fiscal 2011 and approximately 71 percent during fiscal 2010. revenues generated by colombian drilling operations contributed approximately 3 percent in the three fiscal years 2012, 2011 and 2010 of our consolidated operating revenues ($82.2 million, $74.5 million and $57.5 million, respectively). revenues from drilling services performed for our largest customer in colombia totaled approximately 1 percent of consolidated operating revenues and approximately 16 percent of international operating revenues during fiscal 2012. the colombian drilling contracts are primarily with large international or national oil companies. ecuador at the end of fiscal 2012, we had five rigs in ecuador. the utilization rate in ecuador was 97 percent in fiscal 2012, compared to 85 percent in fiscal 2011 and 100 percent in fiscal 2010. revenues generated by ecuadorian drilling operations contributed approximately 2 percent in both fiscal years 2012 and 2011 ($56.4 million and $42.6 million, respectively) of consolidated operating revenues compared with approximately 3 percent in fiscal 2010 ($52.1 million) of our consolidated operating revenues. revenues from drilling services performed for the largest customer in ecuador totaled approximately 1 percent of consolidated operating revenues and approximately 14 percent of international operating revenues during fiscal 2012. the ecuadorian drilling contracts are primarily with large international or national oil companies. other locations in addition to our operations discussed above, at the end of fiscal 2012 we had two rigs in tunisia, four rigs in bahrain and two rigs in uae. financial information relating to revenues, total assets and operating income by reportable operating segments may be found on, and is incorporated by reference to, pages 51 through 55 of our annual report (exhibit 13 to this form 10-k). employees we had 8,147 employees within the united states (19 of which were part-time employees) and 1,282 employees in international operations as of september 30, 2012. available information information relating to our internet address and information relating to our securities and exchange commission ("sec") filings may be found on, and is incorporated by reference to, page 57 of our annual report (exhibit 13 to this form 10-k). item 1a. risk factors in addition to the risk factors discussed elsewhere in this report, we caution that the following "risk factors" could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 6 table of contents our offshore and land operations are subject to a number of operational risks, including environmental and weather risks, which could expose us to significant losses and damage claims. we are not fully insured against all of these risks and our contractual indemnity provisions may not fully protect us. our drilling operations are subject to the many hazards inherent in the business, including inclement weather, blowouts, well fires, loss of well control, pollution, and reservoir damage. these hazards could cause significant environmental damage, personal injury and death, suspension of drilling operations, serious damage or destruction of equipment and property and substantial damage to producing formations and surrounding lands and waters. our offshore drilling operations are also subject to potentially greater environmental liability, including pollution of offshore waters and related negative impact on wildlife and habitat, adverse sea conditions and platform damage or destruction due to collision with aircraft or marine vessels. our offshore operations may also be negatively affected by blowouts or uncontrolled release of oil by third parties whose offshore operations are unrelated to our operations. we operate several platform rigs in the gulf of mexico. the gulf of mexico experiences hurricanes and other extreme weather conditions on a frequent basis, the frequency of which may increase with any climate change. damage caused by high winds and turbulent seas could potentially curtail operations on such platform rigs for significant periods of time until the damage can be repaired. moreover, even if our platform rigs are not directly damaged by such storms, we may experience disruptions in operations due to damage to customer platforms and other related facilities in the area. we have a new-build rig assembly facility located near the houston, texas, ship channel, and our principal fabricator and other vendors are also located in the gulf coast region. due to their location, these facilities are exposed to potentially greater hurricane damage. we have indemnification agreements with many of our customers and we also maintain liability and other forms of insurance. in general, our drilling contracts contain provisions requiring our customer to indemnify us for, among other things, pollution and reservoir damage. however, our contractual rights to indemnification may be unenforceable or limited due to negligent or willful acts by us, our subcontractors and/or suppliers. our customers may also dispute, or be unable to meet, their contractual indemnification obligations to us. accordingly, we may be unable to transfer these risks to our drilling customers by contract or indemnification agreements. incurring a liability for which we are not fully indemnified or insured could have a material adverse effect our business, financial condition and results of operations. with the exception of "named wind storm" risk in the gulf of mexico, we insure rigs and related equipment at values that approximate the current replacement cost on the inception date of the policy. however, we self-insure a large deductible as well as a significant portion of the estimated replacement cost of our offshore rigs and our land rigs and equipment. we also carry insurance with varying deductibles and coverage limits with respect to offshore platform rigs and "named wind storm" risk in the gulf of mexico. we have insurance coverage for comprehensive general liability, automobile liability, worker's compensation and employer's liability, and certain other specific risks. insurance is purchased over deductibles to reduce our exposure to catastrophic events. we retain a significant portion of our expected losses under our worker's compensation, general liability and automobile liability programs. the company self-insures a number of other risks including loss of earnings and business interruption. we are unable to obtain significant amounts of insurance to cover risks of underground reservoir damage; however, we are generally indemnified under our drilling contracts from this risk. 7 table of contents if a significant accident or other event occurs and is not fully covered by insurance or an enforceable or recoverable indemnity from a customer, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our insurance will not in all situations provide sufficient funds to protect us from all liabilities that could result from our drilling operations. our coverage includes aggregate policy limits. as a result, we retain the risk for any loss in excess of these limits. no assurance can be given that all or a portion of our coverage will not be cancelled during fiscal 2013, that insurance coverage will continue to be available at rates considered reasonable or that our coverage will respond to a specific loss. further, we may experience difficulties in collecting from our insurers or our insurers may deny all or a portion of our claims for insurance coverage. oil and natural gas prices are volatile, and low prices could negatively affect our financial results in the future. our operations can be materially affected by low oil and gas prices. we believe that any significant reduction in oil and gas prices could depress the level of exploration and production activity and result in a corresponding decline in demand for our services. worldwide military, political and economic events, including initiatives by the organization of petroleum exporting countries, may affect both the demand for, and the supply of, oil and gas. fluctuations during the last few years in the demand and supply of oil and gas have contributed to, and are likely to continue to contribute to, price volatility. any prolonged reduction in demand for our services could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. a sluggish global economy may affect our business. as a result of volatility in oil and natural gas prices and a continuing sluggish global economic environment, we are unable to determine whether our customers will maintain spending on exploration and development drilling or whether customers and/or vendors and suppliers will be able to access financing necessary to sustain their current level of operations, fulfill their commitments and/or fund future operations and obligations. the current global economic environment may impact industry fundamentals and result in reduced demand for drilling rigs. these conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the contract drilling business is highly competitive. competition in contract drilling involves such factors as price, rig availability, efficiency, condition and type of equipment, reputation, operating safety, environmental impact, and customer relations. competition is primarily on a regional basis and may vary significantly by region at any particular time. land drilling rigs can be readily moved from one region to another in response to changes in levels of activity, and an oversupply of rigs in any region may result, leading to increased price competition. although many contracts for drilling services are awarded based solely on price, we have been successful in establishing long-term relationships with certain customers which have allowed us to secure drilling work even though we may not have been the lowest bidder for such work. we have continued to attempt to differentiate our services based upon our flexrigs and our engineering design expertise, operational efficiency, safety and environmental awareness. this strategy is less effective when lower demand for drilling services intensifies price competition and makes it more difficult or impossible to compete on any basis other than price. also, future improvements in operational efficiency and safety by our competitors could negatively affect our ability to differentiate our services. 8 table of contents the loss of one or a number of our large customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in fiscal 2012, we received approximately 59 percent of our consolidated operating revenues from our ten largest contract drilling customers and approximately 32 percent of our consolidated operating revenues from our three largest customers (including their affiliates). we believe that our relationship with all of these customers is good; however, the loss of one or more of our larger customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. international uncertainties and local laws could adversely affect our business. international operations are subject to certain political, economic and other uncertainties not encountered in u.s. operations, including increased risks of social unrest, strikes, terrorism, kidnapping of employees, nationalization, forced negotiation or modification of contracts, expropriation of equipment as well as expropriation of a particular oil company operator's property and drilling rights, taxation policies, foreign exchange restrictions, currency rate fluctuations and general hazards associated with foreign sovereignty over certain areas in which operations are conducted. on june 30, 2010, the venezuelan government seized 11 rigs and associated real and personal property owned by our venezuelan subsidiary. in argentina, general economic conditions have shown improvement and political protests and social disturbances have diminished considerably since the economic crisis of 2001 and 2002. however, the rapid and radical nature of the changes in the argentine social, political, economic and legal environment over the past several years and the absence of a clear political consensus in favor of any particular set of economic policies have given rise to significant uncertainties about the country's economic and political future. it is currently unclear whether the economic and political instability experienced over the past several years will continue and it is possible that, despite recent economic growth, argentina may return to a deeper recession, higher inflation and unemployment and greater social unrest. if instability persists, there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. there can be no assurance that there will not be changes in local laws, regulations and administrative requirements or the interpretation thereof which could have a material adverse effect on the profitability of our operations or on our ability to continue operations in certain areas. because of the impact of local laws, our future operations in certain areas may be conducted through entities in which local citizens own interests and through entities (including joint ventures) in which we hold only a minority interest or pursuant to arrangements under which we conduct operations under contract to local entities. while we believe that neither operating through such entities nor pursuant to such arrangements would have a material adverse effect on our operations or revenues, there can be no assurance that we will in all cases be able to structure or restructure our operations to conform to local law (or the administration thereof) on terms we find acceptable. although we attempt to minimize the potential impact of such risks by operating in more than one geographical area, during fiscal 2012, approximately 9 percent of our consolidated operating revenues were generated from the international contract drilling business. during fiscal 2012, approximately 72 percent of the international operating revenues were from operations in south america. all of the south american operating revenues were from argentina, colombia and ecuador. we depend on a limited number of vendors, some of which are thinly capitalized and the loss of any of which could disrupt our operations. certain key rig components are either purchased from or fabricated by a single or limited number of vendors, and we have no long-term contracts with many of these vendors. shortages could occur in these essential components due to an interruption of supply or increased demands in the industry. if we are unable to procure certain of such rig components, we would be required to reduce our rig 9 table of contents construction or other operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if our principal fabricator, located on the texas gulf coast, was unable or unwilling to continue fabricating rig components, then we would have to transfer this work to other acceptable fabricators. this transfer could result in significant delay in the completion of new flexrigs. any significant interruption in the fabrication of rig components could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. certain key rig components are obtained from vendors that are, in some cases, thinly capitalized, independent companies that generate significant portions of their business from us or from a small group of companies in the energy industry. these vendors may be disproportionately affected by any loss of business, downturn in the energy industry or reduction or unavailability of credit. therefore, disruptions in rig component delivery may occur, and such disruptions and terminations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our securities portfolio may lose significant value due to a decline in equity prices and other market-related risks, thus impacting our debt ratio and financial strength. at september 30, 2012, we had a portfolio of securities with a total fair value of approximately $452 million. the fair value in atwood oceanics, inc. and schlumberger, ltd. was $434 million at september 30, 2012. these securities are subject to a wide variety of market-related risks that could substantially reduce or increase the fair value of our holdings. except for investments in limited partnerships carried at cost, the portfolio is recorded at fair value on our balance sheet with changes in unrealized after-tax value reflected in the equity section of our balance sheet. subsequent to september 30, 2012, we sold our share in the limited partnerships. any reduction in fair value would have an impact on our debt ratio and financial strength. at november 15, 2012, the fair value of the portfolio had increased to approximately $438 million. government regulations and environmental laws could adversely affect our business. many aspects of our operations are subject to government regulation, including those relating to drilling practices, pollution, disposal of hazardous substances and oil field waste. the united states and various other countries have environmental regulations which affect drilling operations. the cost of compliance with these laws could be substantial. a failure to comply with these laws and regulations could expose us to substantial civil and criminal penalties. in addition, environmental laws and regulations in the united states impose a variety of requirements on "responsible parties" related to the prevention of oil spills and liability for damages from such spills. as an owner and operator of drilling rigs, we may be deemed to be a responsible party under these laws and regulations. we believe that we are in substantial compliance with all legislation and regulations affecting our operations in the drilling of oil and gas wells and in controlling the discharge of wastes. to date, compliance costs have not materially affected our capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position, although compliance measures may add to the costs of drilling operations. additional legislation or regulation may reasonably be anticipated, and the effect thereof on our operations cannot be predicted. regulation of greenhouse gases and climate change could have a negative impact on our business. scientific studies have suggested that emissions of certain gases, commonly referred to as "greenhouse gases" ("ghgs") and including carbon dioxide and methane, may be contributing to warming of the earth's atmosphere and other climatic changes. in response to such studies, the issue of climate change and the effect of ghg emissions, in particular emissions from fossil fuels, is attracting increasing attention worldwide. we are aware of the increasing focus of local, state, national and 10 table of contents international regulatory bodies on ghg emissions and climate change issues. the united states congress may consider legislation to reduce ghg emissions. although it is not possible at this time to predict whether proposed legislation or regulations will be adopted, any such future laws and regulations could result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions. any additional costs or operating restrictions associated with legislation or regulations regarding ghg emissions could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. new legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could delay or limit the drilling services we provide to customers whose drilling programs could be impacted by such laws. members of the u.s. congress and the u.s. environmental protection agency, or the epa, are reviewing more stringent regulation of hydraulic fracturing, a technology which involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into rock formations to stimulate oil and natural gas production. both the u.s. congress and the epa are studying whether there is any link between hydraulic fracturing and soil or ground water contamination or any impact on public health. legislation has been introduced before congress to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the fracturing process. in addition, some states have and others are considering adopting regulations that could restrict hydraulic fracturing in certain circumstances. we do not engage in any hydraulic fracturing activities. however, any new laws, regulation or permitting requirements regarding hydraulic fracturing could delay or limit the drilling services we provide to customers whose drilling programs could be impacted by new legal requirements. widespread regulation significantly restricting or prohibiting hydraulic fracturing by our customers could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operation. our business and results of operations may be adversely affected by foreign currency devaluation. contracts for work in foreign countries generally provide for payment in u.s. dollars; however, government-owned petroleum companies may in the future require that a greater proportion of these payments be made in local currencies. based upon current information, we believe that our exposure to potential losses from currency devaluation in foreign countries is immaterial. however, in the event of future payments in local currencies or an inability to exchange local currencies for u.s. dollars, we may incur currency devaluation losses which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. fixed-term contracts may in certain instances be terminated without an early termination payment. fixed-term drilling contracts customarily provide for termination at the election of the customer, with an "early termination payment" to be paid to us if a contract is terminated prior to the expiration of the fixed term. however, under certain limited circumstances, such as destruction of a drilling rig, our bankruptcy, sustained unacceptable performance by us or delivery of a rig beyond certain grace and/or liquidated damage periods, no early termination payment would be paid to us. even if an early termination payment is owed to us, the current global economic environment may affect the customer's ability to pay the early termination payment. shortages of drilling equipment and supplies could adversely affect our operations. the contract drilling business is highly cyclical. during periods of increased demand for contract drilling services, delays in delivery and shortages of drilling equipment and supplies can occur. these risks are intensified during periods when the industry experiences significant new drilling rig construction or refurbishment. any such delays or shortages could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 11 table of contents new technologies may cause our drilling methods and equipment to become less competitive, resulting in an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. although we take measures to ensure that we use advanced oil and natural gas drilling technology, changes in technology or improvements in competitors' equipment could make our equipment less competitive or require significant capital investments to keep our equipment competitive. any such changes in technology could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. competition for experienced personnel may negatively impact our operations or financial results. we utilize highly skilled personnel in operating and supporting our businesses. in times of high utilization, it can be difficult to retain, and in some cases find, qualified individuals. although to date our operations have not been materially affected by competition for personnel, an inability to obtain or find a sufficient number of qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. improvements in or new discoveries of alternative energy technologies could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. since our business depends on the level of activity in the oil and natural gas industry, any improvement in or new discoveries of alternative energy technologies that increase the use of alternative forms of energy and reduce the demand for oil and natural gas could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 24 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information required by this item may be found under the caption "risk factors" beginning on page 6 of this form 10-k and on, and is incorporated by reference to, the following pages of our annual report (exhibit 13 to this form 10-k) under management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and in the notes to consolidated financial statements: market risk page foreign currency exchange rate risk 16 commodity price risk 16 interest rate risk 16-17 equity price risk 17risk factors 6 risk factors in addition to the risk factors discussed elsewhere in this form 10-k, we caution that the following "risk factors" could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our business depends on the level of activity in the oil and natural gas industry, which is significantly impacted by the volatility of oil and natural gas prices and other factors. our business depends on the conditions of the land and offshore oil and natural gas industry. demand for our services depends on oil and natural gas industry exploration and production activity and expenditure levels, which are directly affected by trends in oil and natural gas prices. oil and natural gas prices, and market expectations regarding potential changes to these prices, significantly affect oil and natural gas industry activity. higher oil and natural gas prices do not necessarily translate into increased activity because demand for our services is typically driven by our customers' expectations of future commodity prices. commodity prices have historically been volatile. oil and natural gas prices are impacted by many factors beyond our control, including: the demand for oil and natural gas; the cost of exploring for, developing, producing and delivering oil and natural gas; the worldwide economy; expectations about future prices; domestic and international tax policies; 6 table of contents political and military conflicts in oil producing regions or other geographical areas or acts of terrorism in the u.s. or elsewhere; technological advances; the development and exploitation of alternative fuels; local and international political, economic and weather conditions; the ability of the organization of petroleum exporting countries ("opec") to set and maintain production levels and pricing; the level of production by opec and non-opec countries; and the environmental and other laws and governmental regulations regarding exploration and development of oil and natural gas reserves. the level of land and offshore exploration, development and production activity and the price for oil and natural gas is volatile and is likely to continue to be volatile in the future. a decline in the worldwide demand for oil and natural gas or prolonged low oil or natural gas prices in the future would likely result in reduced exploration and development of land and offshore areas and a decline in the demand for our services. even during periods of high prices for oil and natural gas, companies exploring for oil and gas may cancel or curtail programs, or reduce their levels of capital expenditures for exploration and production for a variety of reasons. these factors could cause our revenues and margins to decline, reduce day rates and utilization of our rigs and limit our future growth prospects. in short, any prolonged reduction in demand for our services could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our offshore and land operations are subject to a number of operational risks, including environmental and weather risks, which could expose us to significant losses and damage claims. we are not fully insured against all of these risks and our contractual indemnity provisions may not fully protect us. our drilling operations are subject to the many hazards inherent in the business, including inclement weather, blowouts, well fires, loss of well control, pollution, and reservoir damage. these hazards could cause significant environmental damage, personal injury and death, suspension of drilling operations, serious damage or destruction of equipment and property and substantial damage to producing formations and surrounding lands and waters. our offshore drilling operations are also subject to potentially greater environmental liability, including pollution of offshore waters and related negative impact on wildlife and habitat, adverse sea conditions and platform damage or destruction due to collision with aircraft or marine vessels. our offshore operations may also be negatively affected by blowouts or uncontrolled release of oil by third parties whose offshore operations are unrelated to our operations. we operate several platform rigs in the gulf of mexico. the gulf of mexico experiences hurricanes and other extreme weather conditions on a frequent basis, the frequency of which may increase with any climate change. damage caused by high winds and turbulent seas could potentially curtail operations on such platform rigs for significant periods of time until the damage can be repaired. moreover, even if our platform rigs are not directly damaged by such storms, we may experience disruptions in operations due to damage to customer platforms and other related facilities in the area. we have a new-build rig assembly facility located near the houston, texas ship channel, and our principal fabricator and other vendors are also located in the gulf coast region. due to their location, these facilities are exposed to potentially greater hurricane damage. we have indemnification agreements with many of our customers and we also maintain liability and other forms of insurance. in general, our drilling contracts contain provisions requiring our 7 table of contents customers to indemnify us for, among other things, pollution and reservoir damage. however, our contractual rights to indemnification may be unenforceable or limited due to negligent or willful acts by us, our subcontractors and/or suppliers. our customers may also dispute, or be unable to meet, their contractual indemnification obligations to us. accordingly, we may be unable to transfer these risks to our drilling customers by contract or indemnification agreements. incurring a liability for which we are not fully indemnified or insured could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. with the exception of "named wind storm" risk in the gulf of mexico, we insure rigs and related equipment at values that approximate the current replacement cost on the inception date of the policy. however, we self-insure a large deductible as well as a significant portion of the estimated replacement cost of our offshore rigs and our land rigs and equipment. we also carry insurance with varying deductibles and coverage limits with respect to offshore platform rigs and "named wind storm" risk in the gulf of mexico. we have insurance coverage for comprehensive general liability, automobile liability, worker's compensation and employer's liability, and certain other specific risks. insurance is purchased over deductibles to reduce our exposure to catastrophic events. we retain a significant portion of our expected losses under our worker's compensation, general liability and automobile liability programs. the company self-insures a number of other risks including loss of earnings and business interruption. we are unable to obtain significant amounts of insurance to cover risks of underground reservoir damage; however, we are generally indemnified under our drilling contracts from this risk. if a significant accident or other event occurs and is not fully covered by insurance or an enforceable or recoverable indemnity from a customer, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our insurance will not in all situations provide sufficient funds to protect us from all liabilities that could result from our drilling operations. our coverage includes aggregate policy limits. as a result, we retain the risk for any loss in excess of these limits. no assurance can be given that all or a portion of our coverage will not be cancelled during fiscal 2014, that insurance coverage will continue to be available at rates considered reasonable or that our coverage will respond to a specific loss. further, we may experience difficulties in collecting from our insurers or our insurers may deny all or a portion of our claims for insurance coverage. a continuing sluggish global economy may affect our business. as a result of volatility in oil and natural gas prices and a continuing sluggish global economic environment, we are unable to determine whether our customers will maintain spending on exploration and development drilling or whether customers and/or vendors and suppliers will be able to access financing necessary to sustain their current level of operations, fulfill their commitments and/or fund future operations and obligations. the current global economic environment may impact industry fundamentals and result in reduced demand for drilling rigs. furthermore, these factors may result in certain of our customers experiencing an inability to pay vendors, including us. these conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the contract drilling business is highly competitive. competition in contract drilling involves such factors as price, rig availability and excess rig capacity in the industry, efficiency, condition and type of equipment, reputation, operating safety, environmental impact, and customer relations. competition is primarily on a regional basis and may vary significantly by region at any particular time. land drilling rigs can be readily moved from one region to another in response to changes in levels of activity, and an oversupply of rigs in any region may result, leading to increased price competition. 8 table of contents although many contracts for drilling services are awarded based solely on price, we have been successful in establishing long-term relationships with certain customers which have allowed us to secure drilling work even though we may not have been the lowest bidder for such work. we have continued to attempt to differentiate our services based upon our flexrigs and our engineering design expertise, operational efficiency, safety and environmental awareness. this strategy is less effective when lower demand for drilling services intensifies price competition and makes it more difficult or impossible to compete on any basis other than price. also, future improvements in operational efficiency and safety by our competitors could negatively affect our ability to differentiate our services. the loss of one or a number of our large customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in fiscal 2013, we received approximately 61 percent of our consolidated operating revenues from our ten largest contract drilling customers and approximately 31 percent of our consolidated operating revenues from our three largest customers (including their affiliates). we believe that our relationship with all of these customers is good; however, the loss of one or more of our larger customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. new technologies may cause our drilling methods and equipment to become less competitive, higher levels of capital expenditures will be necessary to keep pace with the bifurcation of the drilling industry, and growth through the building of new drilling rigs is not assured. the market for our services is characterized by continual technological developments that have resulted in, and will likely continue to result in, substantial improvements in the functionality and performance of rigs and equipment. our customers are increasingly demanding the services of newer, higher specification drilling rigs. this results in a bifurcation of the drilling fleet and is evidenced by the higher specification drilling rigs (e.g., ac rigs) generally operating at higher overall utilization levels and day rates than the lower specification drilling rigs (e.g., mechanical or scr rigs). in addition, a significant number of lower specification rigs are being stacked and/or removed from service. as a result of this bifurcation, a higher level of capital expenditures will be required to maintain and improve existing rigs and equipment and purchase and construct newer, higher specification drilling rigs to meet the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers. since the late 1990's we have increased our drilling rig fleet through new construction. although we take measures to ensure that we use advanced oil and natural gas drilling technology, changes in technology or improvements in competitors' equipment could make our equipment less competitive. there can be no assurance that we will: have sufficient capital resources to build new, technologically advanced drilling rigs; successfully integrate additional drilling rigs; effectively manage the growth and increased size of our organization and drilling fleet; successfully deploy idle, stacked or additional drilling rigs; maintain crews necessary to operate additional drilling rigs; or successfully improve our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects as a result of building new drilling rigs. if we are not successful in building new rigs and equipment or upgrading our existing rigs and equipment in a timely and cost-effective manner, we could lose market share. new technologies, services or standards could render some of our services, drilling rigs or equipment obsolete, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operation. 9 table of contents new legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could delay or limit the drilling services we provide to customers whose drilling programs could be impacted by such laws. it is a common practice in our industry for our customers to recover natural gas and oil from shale and other formations through the use of horizontal drilling combined with hydraulic fracturing. hydraulic fracturing is the process of creating or expanding cracks, or fractures, in formations using water, sand and other additives pumped under high pressure into the formation. the hydraulic fracturing process is typically regulated by state oil and natural gas commissions. several states have adopted or are considering adopting regulations that could impose more stringent permitting, public disclosure, waste disposal and/or well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing operations or otherwise seek to ban fracturing activities altogether. in addition to state laws, some local municipalities have adopted or are considering adopting land use restrictions, such as city ordinances, that may restrict or prohibit the performance of well drilling in general and/or hydraulic fracturing in particular. additionally, the u.s. environmental protection agency, or epa, has asserted federal regulatory authority over hydraulic fracturing activities involving diesel fuel under the safe drinking water act and is completing the process of drafting guidance documents related to this newly asserted regulatory authority. there are also governmental reviews either underway or being proposed that focus on shale and other formation completion and production practices, including hydraulic fracturing. depending on the outcome of these studies, federal and state legislatures and agencies may seek to further regulate or restrict hydraulic fracturing activities. we do not engage in any hydraulic fracturing activities. however, any new laws, regulations or permitting requirements regarding hydraulic fracturing could delay or limit the drilling services we provide to customers whose drilling programs could be impacted by new legal requirements. widespread regulation significantly restricting or prohibiting hydraulic fracturing by our customers could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operation. failure to comply with the terms of our plea agreement with the united states department of justice may adversely affect our business. on november 8, 2013, the united states district court for the eastern district of louisiana approved the previously disclosed october 30, 2013 plea agreement between our wholly owned subsidiary, helmerich &amp; payne international drilling co., and the united states department of justice, united states attorney's office for the eastern district of louisiana ("doj"). the court's approval of the plea agreement resolved the doj's investigation into certain choke manifold testing irregularities that occurred in 2010 at one of helmerich &amp; payne international drilling co.'s offshore platform rigs in the gulf of mexico. as part of the plea agreement, h&amp;pidc agreed, during a three-year probationary period, to not commit any further criminal violations and to fulfill the terms of an environmental compliance plan ("ecp") whose purpose is to develop and implement additional training and safety programs our ability to comply with the terms of the plea agreement is dependent, in part, on our successful implementation of the additional training and safety programs set forth in the ecp. while not anticipated, a failure to comply with the terms of the plea agreement, including the ecp, could result in prosecution and other regulatory sanctions, and could otherwise adversely affect our business. we are also currently engaged in discussions with the inspector general's office of the department of interior regarding the same events that were the subject of the doj's investigation. although we presently believe that the outcome of our discussions will not have a material adverse effect on the company, we can provide no assurances as to the timing or eventual outcome of these discussions. in addition, we could be exposed to civil litigation arising from the events that were the subject of the doj's investigation. any such litigation may result in financial liability. refer to item 3 "legal proceedings" and note 13 "commitments and contingencies" included in item 8 "financial statements and supplementary data" of this form 10-k for additional discussion of this subject. 10 table of contents international uncertainties and local laws could adversely affect our business. international operations are subject to certain political, economic and other uncertainties not encountered in u.s. operations, including increased risks of social unrest, strikes, terrorism, kidnapping of employees, nationalization, forced negotiation or modification of contracts, expropriation of equipment as well as expropriation of a particular oil company operator's property and drilling rights, taxation policies, foreign exchange restrictions, currency rate fluctuations and general hazards associated with foreign sovereignty over certain areas in which operations are conducted. on june 30, 2010, the venezuelan government seized 11 rigs and associated real and personal property owned by our venezuelan subsidiary. in argentina, general economic conditions have shown improvement and political protests and social disturbances have diminished considerably since the economic crisis of 2001 and 2002. however, the rapid and radical nature of the changes in the argentine social, political, economic and legal environment over the past several years and the absence of a clear political consensus in favor of any particular set of economic policies have given rise to significant uncertainties about the country's economic and political future. it is currently unclear whether the economic and political instability experienced over the past several years will continue and it is possible that, despite recent economic growth, argentina may return to a deeper recession, higher inflation and unemployment and greater social unrest. if instability persists, there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. there can be no assurance that there will not be changes in local laws, regulations and administrative requirements or the interpretation thereof which could have a material adverse effect on the profitability of our operations or on our ability to continue operations in certain areas. because of the impact of local laws, our future operations in certain areas may be conducted through entities in which local citizens own interests and through entities (including joint ventures) in which we hold only a minority interest or pursuant to arrangements under which we conduct operations under contract to local entities. while we believe that neither operating through such entities nor pursuant to such arrangements would have a material adverse effect on our operations or revenues, there can be no assurance that we will in all cases be able to structure or restructure our operations to conform to local law (or the administration thereof) on terms we find acceptable. although we attempt to minimize the potential impact of such risks by operating in more than one geographical area, during fiscal 2013, approximately 11 percent of our consolidated operating revenues were generated from the international contract drilling business. during fiscal 2013, approximately 66 percent of the international operating revenues were from operations in south america. all of the south american operating revenues were from argentina, colombia and ecuador. we depend on a limited number of vendors, some of which are thinly capitalized and the loss of any of which could disrupt our operations. certain key rig components are either purchased from or fabricated by a single or limited number of vendors, and we have no long-term contracts with many of these vendors. shortages could occur in these essential components due to an interruption of supply or increased demands in the industry. if we are unable to procure certain of such rig components, we would be required to reduce our rig construction or other operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if our principal fabricator, located on the texas gulf coast, was unable or unwilling to continue fabricating rig components, then we would have to transfer this work to other acceptable fabricators. this transfer could result in significant delay in the completion of new flexrigs. any significant interruption in the fabrication of rig components could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. certain key rig components are obtained from vendors that are, in some cases, thinly capitalized, independent companies that generate significant portions of their business from us or from a small 11 table of contents group of companies in the energy industry. these vendors may be disproportionately affected by any loss of business, downturn in the energy industry or reduction or unavailability of credit. therefore, disruptions in rig component delivery may occur, and such disruptions and terminations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our securities portfolio may lose significant value due to a decline in equity prices and other market-related risks, thus impacting our debt ratio and financial strength. at september 30, 2013, we had a portfolio of securities with a total fair value of approximately $306 million, consisting of atwood oceanics, inc. and schlumberger, ltd. these securities are subject to a wide variety of market-related risks that could substantially reduce or increase the fair value of our holdings. the portfolio is recorded at fair value on our balance sheet with changes in unrealized after-tax value reflected in the equity section of our balance sheet. at november 14, 2013, the fair value of the portfolio had increased to approximately $322 million. failure to comply with the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act or foreign anti-bribery legislation, other governmental regulations and environmental laws could adversely affect our business. the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act ("fcpa") and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions, including the united kingdom bribery act 2010, generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. we operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and, in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices and impact our business. although we have programs in place covering compliance with anti-bribery legislation, any failure to comply with the fcpa or other anti-bribery legislation could subject us to civil and criminal penalties or other sanctions, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operation. we could also face fines, sanctions and other penalties from authorities in the relevant foreign jurisdictions, including prohibition of our participating in or curtailment of business operations in those jurisdictions and the seizure of drilling rigs or other assets. additionally, many aspects of our operations are subject to government regulation, including those relating to drilling practices, pollution, disposal of hazardous substances and oil field waste. the united states and various other countries have environmental regulations which affect drilling operations. the cost of compliance with these laws could be substantial. a failure to comply with these laws and regulations could expose us to substantial civil and criminal penalties. in addition, environmental laws and regulations in the united states impose a variety of requirements on "responsible parties" related to the prevention of oil spills and liability for damages from such spills. as an owner and operator of drilling rigs, we may be deemed to be a responsible party under these laws and regulations. we believe that we are in substantial compliance with all legislation and regulations affecting our operations in the drilling of oil and gas wells and in controlling the discharge of wastes. to date, compliance costs have not materially affected our capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position, although compliance measures may add to the costs of drilling operations. additional legislation or regulation may reasonably be anticipated, and the effect thereof on our operations cannot be predicted. regulation of greenhouse gases and climate change could have a negative impact on our business. scientific studies have suggested that emissions of certain gases, commonly referred to as "greenhouse gases" ("ghgs") and including carbon dioxide and methane, may be contributing to warming of the earth's atmosphere and other climatic changes. in response to such studies, the issue of climate change and the effect of ghg emissions, in particular emissions from fossil fuels, is attracting increasing attention worldwide. we are aware of the increasing focus of local, state, national and 12 table of contents international regulatory bodies on ghg emissions and climate change issues. the united states congress may consider legislation to reduce ghg emissions. although it is not possible at this time to predict whether proposed legislation or regulations will be adopted, any such future laws and regulations could result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions. any additional costs or operating restrictions associated with legislation or regulations regarding ghg emissions could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. legal proceedings could have a negative impact on our business. the nature of our business makes us susceptible to legal proceedings and governmental investigations from time to time. lawsuits or claims against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. any litigation or claims, even if fully indemnified or insured, could negatively affect our reputation among our customers and the public, and make it more difficult for us to compete effectively or obtain adequate insurance in the future. our business and results of operations may be adversely affected by foreign currency devaluation. contracts for work in foreign countries generally provide for payment in u.s. dollars; however, government-owned petroleum companies may in the future require that a greater proportion of these payments be made in local currencies. based upon current information, we believe that our exposure to potential losses from currency devaluation in foreign countries is immaterial. however, in the event of future payments in local currencies or an inability to exchange local currencies for u.s. dollars, we may incur currency devaluation losses which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our current backlog of contract drilling revenue may not be ultimately realized as fixed-term contracts may in certain instances be terminated without an early termination payment. fixed-term drilling contracts customarily provide for termination at the election of the customer, with an "early termination payment" to be paid to us if a contract is terminated prior to the expiration of the fixed term. however, under certain limited circumstances, such as destruction of a drilling rig, our bankruptcy, sustained unacceptable performance by us or delivery of a rig beyond certain grace and/or liquidated damage periods, no early termination payment would be paid to us. even if an early termination payment is owed to us, the current global economic environment may affect the customer's ability to pay the early termination payment. we also may not be able to perform under these contracts due to events beyond our control, and our customers may seek to cancel or renegotiate our contracts for various reasons, including those described above. as of september 30, 2013, our contract drilling backlog was approximately $2.9 billion for future revenues under firm commitments. our inability or the inability of our customers to perform under our or their contractual obligations may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may have additional tax liabilities. we are subject to income taxes in the united states and numerous other jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. we are regularly audited by tax authorities. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different than what is reflected in income tax provisions and accruals. an audit or litigation could materially affect our financial position, income tax provision, net income, or cash flows in the period or periods challenged. it is also possible that future changes to tax laws (including tax treaties) could impact our ability to realize the tax savings recorded to date. 13 table of contents shortages of drilling equipment and supplies could adversely affect our operations. the contract drilling business is highly cyclical. during periods of increased demand for contract drilling services, delays in delivery and shortages of drilling equipment and supplies can occur. these risks are intensified during periods when the industry experiences significant new drilling rig construction or refurbishment. any such delays or shortages could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. reliance on management and competition for experienced personnel may negatively impact our operations or financial results. we greatly depend on the efforts of our executive officers and other key employees to manage our operations. the loss of members of management could have a material effect on our business. similarly, we utilize highly skilled personnel in operating and supporting our businesses. in times of high utilization, it can be difficult to retain, and in some cases find, qualified individuals. although to date our operations have not been materially affected by competition for personnel, an inability to obtain or find a sufficient number of qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. unionization efforts and labor regulations in certain countries in which we operate could materially increase our costs or limit our flexibility. efforts may be made from time to time to unionize portions of our workforce. in addition, we may in the future be subject to strikes or work stoppages and other labor disruptions. additional unionization efforts, new collective bargaining agreements or work stoppages could materially increase our costs, reduce our revenues or limit our flexibility. any future implementation of price controls on oil and natural gas would affect our operations. certain groups have asserted efforts to have the united states congress impose some form of price controls on either oil, natural gas, or both. there is no way at this time to know what results these efforts may have. however, any future limits on the price of oil or natural gas could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. covenants in our debt agreements restrict our ability to engage in certain activities. our debt agreements pertaining to certain long-term unsecured debt and our unsecured revolving credit facility contain various covenants that may in certain instances restrict our ability to, among other things, incur, assume or guarantee additional indebtedness, incur liens, make loans or certain types of investments, sell or otherwise dispose of assets, enter into new lines of business, and merge or consolidate. in addition, our debt agreements also require us to maintain minimum current, funded leverage and interest coverage ratios. such restrictions may limit our ability to successfully execute our business plans, which may have adverse consequences on our operations. improvements in or new discoveries of alternative energy technologies could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. since our business depends on the level of activity in the oil and natural gas industry, any improvement in or new discoveries of alternative energy technologies that increase the use of alternative forms of energy and reduce the demand for oil and natural gas could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 42 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information required by this item may be found in item 1a "risk factors" and in item 7 "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" included in this form 10-k. 42 table of contentsrisk factors 6 risk factors in addition to the risk factors discussed elsewhere in this form 10-k, we caution that the following "risk factors" could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our business depends on the level of activity in the oil and natural gas industry, which is significantly impacted by the volatility of oil and natural gas prices and other factors. our business depends on the conditions of the land and offshore oil and natural gas industry. demand for our services depends on oil and natural gas industry exploration and production activity and expenditure levels, which are directly affected by trends in oil and natural gas prices. oil and natural gas prices, and market expectations regarding potential changes to these prices, significantly affect oil and natural gas industry activity. higher oil and natural gas prices do not necessarily translate into increased activity because demand for our services is typically driven by our customers' expectations of future commodity prices. commodity prices have historically been volatile. oil and natural gas prices are impacted by many factors beyond our control, including: the demand for oil and natural gas; the cost of exploring for, developing, producing and delivering oil and natural gas; the worldwide economy; expectations about future prices; domestic and international tax policies; 6 table of contents political and military conflicts in oil producing regions or other geographical areas or acts of terrorism in the u.s. or elsewhere; technological advances; the development and exploitation of alternative fuels; local and international political, economic and weather conditions; the ability of the organization of petroleum exporting countries ("opec") to set and maintain production levels and pricing; the level of production by opec and non-opec countries; and the environmental and other laws and governmental regulations regarding exploration and development of oil and natural gas reserves. the level of land and offshore exploration, development and production activity and the price for oil and natural gas is volatile and is likely to continue to be volatile in the future. a decline in the worldwide demand for oil and natural gas or prolonged low oil or natural gas prices in the future would likely result in reduced exploration and development of land and offshore areas and a decline in the demand for our services. even during periods of high prices for oil and natural gas, companies exploring for oil and gas may cancel or curtail programs, or reduce their levels of capital expenditures for exploration and production for a variety of reasons. these factors could cause our revenues and margins to decline, reduce day rates and utilization of our rigs and limit our future growth prospects. in short, any prolonged reduction in demand for our services could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our offshore and land operations are subject to a number of operational risks, including environmental and weather risks, which could expose us to significant losses and damage claims. we are not fully insured against all of these risks and our contractual indemnity provisions may not fully protect us. our drilling operations are subject to the many hazards inherent in the business, including inclement weather, blowouts, well fires, loss of well control, pollution, and reservoir damage. these hazards could cause significant environmental damage, personal injury and death, suspension of drilling operations, serious damage or destruction of equipment and property and substantial damage to producing formations and surrounding lands and waters. our offshore drilling operations are also subject to potentially greater environmental liability, including pollution of offshore waters and related negative impact on wildlife and habitat, adverse sea conditions and platform damage or destruction due to collision with aircraft or marine vessels. our offshore operations may also be negatively affected by blowouts or uncontrolled release of oil by third parties whose offshore operations are unrelated to our operations. we operate several platform rigs in the gulf of mexico. the gulf of mexico experiences hurricanes and other extreme weather conditions on a frequent basis, the frequency of which may increase with any climate change. damage caused by high winds and turbulent seas could potentially curtail operations on such platform rigs for significant periods of time until the damage can be repaired. moreover, even if our platform rigs are not directly damaged by such storms, we may experience disruptions in operations due to damage to customer platforms and other related facilities in the area. we have a new-build rig assembly facility located near the houston, texas ship channel, and our principal fabricator and other vendors are also located in the gulf coast region. due to their location, these facilities are exposed to potentially greater hurricane damage. we have indemnification agreements with many of our customers and we also maintain liability and other forms of insurance. in general, our drilling contracts contain provisions requiring our 7 table of contents customers to indemnify us for, among other things, pollution and reservoir damage. however, our contractual rights to indemnification may be unenforceable or limited due to negligent or willful acts by us, our subcontractors and/or suppliers. our customers may also dispute, or be unable to meet, their contractual indemnification obligations to us. accordingly, we may be unable to transfer these risks to our drilling customers by contract or indemnification agreements. incurring a liability for which we are not fully indemnified or insured could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. with the exception of "named wind storm" risk in the gulf of mexico, we insure rigs and related equipment at values that approximate the current replacement cost on the inception date of the policy. however, we self-insure a large deductible as well as a significant portion of the estimated replacement cost of our offshore rigs and our land rigs and equipment. we also carry insurance with varying deductibles and coverage limits with respect to offshore platform rigs and "named wind storm" risk in the gulf of mexico. we have insurance coverage for comprehensive general liability, automobile liability, worker's compensation and employer's liability, and certain other specific risks. insurance is purchased over deductibles to reduce our exposure to catastrophic events. we retain a significant portion of our expected losses under our worker's compensation, general liability and automobile liability programs. the company self-insures a number of other risks including loss of earnings and business interruption. we are unable to obtain significant amounts of insurance to cover risks of underground reservoir damage. if a significant accident or other event occurs and is not fully covered by insurance or an enforceable or recoverable indemnity from a customer, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our insurance will not in all situations provide sufficient funds to protect us from all liabilities that could result from our drilling operations. our coverage includes aggregate policy limits. as a result, we retain the risk for any loss in excess of these limits. no assurance can be given that all or a portion of our coverage will not be cancelled during fiscal 2015, that insurance coverage will continue to be available at rates considered reasonable or that our coverage will respond to a specific loss. further, we may experience difficulties in collecting from our insurers or our insurers may deny all or a portion of our claims for insurance coverage. a tepid or deteriorating global economy may affect our business. as a result of volatility in oil and natural gas prices and a tepid global economic environment, we are unable to determine whether our customers will maintain spending on exploration and development drilling or whether customers and/or vendors and suppliers will be able to access financing necessary to sustain their current level of operations, fulfill their commitments and/or fund future operations and obligations. in the event the global economic environment remains tepid or deteriorates, industry fundamentals may be impacted and result in stagnant or reduced demand for drilling rigs. furthermore, these factors may result in certain of our customers experiencing an inability to pay vendors, including us. the global economic environment in the past has experienced significant deterioration in a relatively short period of time and there can be no assurance that the global economic environment will not quickly deteriorate again due to one or more factors. these conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the contract drilling business is highly competitive. competition in contract drilling involves such factors as price, rig availability and excess rig capacity in the industry, efficiency, condition and type of equipment, reputation, operating safety, environmental impact, and customer relations. competition is primarily on a regional basis and may vary significantly by region at any particular time. land drilling rigs can be readily moved from one 8 table of contents region to another in response to changes in levels of activity, and an oversupply of rigs in any region may result, leading to increased price competition. although many contracts for drilling services are awarded based solely on price, we have been successful in establishing long-term relationships with certain customers which have allowed us to secure drilling work even though we may not have been the lowest bidder for such work. we have continued to attempt to differentiate our services based upon our flexrigs and our engineering design expertise, operational efficiency, safety and environmental awareness. this strategy is less effective when lower demand for drilling services intensifies price competition and makes it more difficult or impossible to compete on any basis other than price. also, future improvements in operational efficiency and safety by our competitors could negatively affect our ability to differentiate our services. the loss of one or a number of our large customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in fiscal 2014, we received approximately 56 percent of our consolidated operating revenues from our ten largest contract drilling customers and approximately 26 percent of our consolidated operating revenues from our three largest customers (including their affiliates). we believe that our relationship with all of these customers is good; however, the loss of one or more of our larger customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. new technologies may cause our drilling methods and equipment to become less competitive, higher levels of capital expenditures will be necessary to keep pace with the bifurcation of the drilling industry, and growth through the building of new drilling rigs is not assured. the market for our services is characterized by continual technological developments that have resulted in, and will likely continue to result in, substantial improvements in the functionality and performance of rigs and equipment. our customers are increasingly demanding the services of newer, higher specification drilling rigs. this results in a bifurcation of the drilling fleet and is evidenced by the higher specification drilling rigs (e.g., ac rigs) generally operating at higher overall utilization levels and day rates than the lower specification drilling rigs (e.g., mechanical or scr rigs). in addition, a significant number of lower specification rigs are being stacked and/or removed from service. as a result of this bifurcation, a higher level of capital expenditures will be required to maintain and improve existing rigs and equipment and purchase and construct newer, higher specification drilling rigs to meet the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers. since the late 1990's we have increased our drilling rig fleet through new construction. although we take measures to ensure that we use advanced oil and natural gas drilling technology, changes in technology or improvements in competitors' equipment could make our equipment less competitive. there can be no assurance that we will: have sufficient capital resources to build new, technologically advanced drilling rigs; avoid cost overruns inherent in large construction projects resulting from numerous factors such as shortages of equipment, materials and skilled labor, unscheduled delays in delivery of ordered equipment and materials, unanticipated increases in costs of equipment, materials and labor, design and engineering problems, and financial or other difficulties; successfully integrate additional drilling rigs; effectively manage the growth and increased size of our organization and drilling fleet; successfully deploy idle, stacked or additional drilling rigs; maintain crews necessary to operate additional drilling rigs; or 9 table of contents successfully improve our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects as a result of building new drilling rigs. if we are not successful in building new rigs and equipment or upgrading our existing rigs and equipment in a timely and cost-effective manner, we could lose market share. one or more technologies that we may implement in the future may not work as we expect and we may be adversely affected. additionally, new technologies, services or standards could render some of our services, drilling rigs or equipment obsolete, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operation. new legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing or other aspects of the oil and gas industry could negatively impact the drilling programs of our customers and, consequently, delay, limit or reduce the drilling services we provide. it is a common practice in our industry for our customers to recover natural gas and oil from shale and other formations through the use of horizontal drilling combined with hydraulic fracturing. hydraulic fracturing is the process of creating or expanding cracks, or fractures, in formations using water, sand and other additives pumped under high pressure into the formation. the hydraulic fracturing process is typically regulated by state oil and natural gas commissions. several states have adopted or are considering adopting regulations that could impose more stringent permitting, public disclosure, waste disposal and/or well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing operations or otherwise seek to ban fracturing activities altogether. in addition to state laws, some local municipalities have adopted or are considering adopting land use restrictions, such as city ordinances, that may restrict or prohibit the performance of well drilling in general and/or hydraulic fracturing in particular. members of the u.s. congress and a number of federal agencies are analyzing, or have been requested to review, a variety of environmental issues associated with hydraulic fracturing and the possibility of more stringent regulation. for example, the u.s. environmental protection agency has undertaken a study of the potential environmental effects of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water and groundwater. depending on the outcome of these or other studies, federal and state legislatures and agencies may seek to further regulate, restrict or prohibit hydraulic fracturing activities. increased regulation and attention given to the hydraulic fracturing process could lead to greater opposition to oil and gas production activities using hydraulic fracturing techniques, operational delays or increased operating and compliance costs in the production of oil and natural gas from shale plays, added difficulty in performing hydraulic fracturing, and potentially a decline in the completion of new oil and gas wells. we do not engage in any hydraulic fracturing activities. however, any new laws, regulations or permitting requirements regarding hydraulic fracturing could negatively impact the drilling programs of our customers and, consequently, delay, limit or reduce the drilling services we provide. widespread regulation significantly restricting or prohibiting hydraulic fracturing by our customers could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operation. failure to comply with the terms of our plea agreement with the united states department of justice may adversely affect our business. on november 8, 2013, the united states district court for the eastern district of louisiana approved the previously disclosed october 30, 2013 plea agreement between our wholly owned subsidiary, helmerich &amp; payne international drilling co. ("h&amp;pidc"), and the united states department of justice, united states attorney's office for the eastern district of louisiana ("doj"). the court's approval of the plea agreement resolved the doj's investigation into certain choke manifold testing irregularities that occurred in 2010 at one of h&amp;pidc's offshore platform rigs in the gulf of mexico. as part of the plea agreement, h&amp;pidc agreed, during a three-year probationary period, to not commit any further criminal violations and to fulfill the terms of an environmental compliance plan ("ecp") whose purpose is to develop and implement additional training and safety 10 table of contents programs. our ability to comply with the terms of the plea agreement is dependent, in part, on our successful implementation of the additional training and safety programs set forth in the ecp. while not anticipated, a failure to comply with the terms of the plea agreement, including the ecp, could result in prosecution and other regulatory sanctions, and could otherwise adversely affect our business. we have been engaged in discussions with the inspector general's office of the department of interior regarding the same events that were the subject of the doj's investigation. although we presently believe that the outcome of our discussions will not have a material adverse effect on us, we can provide no assurances as to the timing or eventual outcome of these discussions. in addition, we could be exposed to civil litigation arising from the events that were the subject of the doj's investigation. any such litigation may result in financial liability. refer to item 3 "legal proceedings" and note 13 "commitments and contingencies" included in item 8 "financial statements and supplementary data" of this form 10-k for additional discussion of this subject. we are subject to the political, economic and social instability risks and local laws associated with doing business in certain foreign countries. we currently have operations in south america, the middle east and africa. in the future, we may further expand the geographic reach of our operations. as a result, we are exposed to certain political, economic and other uncertainties not encountered in u.s. operations, including increased risks of social unrest, strikes, terrorism, war, kidnapping of employees, nationalization, forced negotiation or modification of contracts, difficulty resolving disputes and enforcing contract provisions, expropriation of equipment as well as expropriation of oil and gas exploration and drilling rights, taxation policies, foreign exchange restrictions and restrictions on repatriation of income and capital, currency rate fluctuations, increased governmental ownership and regulation of the economy and industry in the markets in which we operate, economic and financial instability of national oil companies, and restrictive governmental regulation, bureaucratic delays and general hazards associated with foreign sovereignty over certain areas in which operations are conducted. south american countries, in particular, have historically experienced uneven periods of economic growth, as well as recession, periods of high inflation and general economic and political instability. from time to time these risks have impacted our business. for example, on june 30, 2010, the venezuelan government expropriated 11 rigs and associated real and personal property owned by our venezuelan subsidiary. prior thereto, we also experienced currency devaluation losses in venezuela and difficulty repatriating u.s. dollars to the united states. additionally, there can be no assurance that there will not be changes in local laws, regulations and administrative requirements or the interpretation thereof which could have a material adverse effect on the profitability of our operations or on our ability to continue operations in certain areas. because of the impact of local laws, our future operations in certain areas may be conducted through entities in which local citizens own interests and through entities (including joint ventures) in which we hold only a minority interest or pursuant to arrangements under which we conduct operations under contract to local entities. while we believe that neither operating through such entities nor pursuant to such arrangements would have a material adverse effect on our operations or revenues, there can be no assurance that we will in all cases be able to structure or restructure our operations to conform to local law (or the administration thereof) on terms we find acceptable. although we attempt to minimize the potential impact of such risks by operating in more than one geographical area, during fiscal 2014, approximately 10 percent of our consolidated operating revenues were generated from the international contract drilling business. during fiscal 2014, approximately 74 percent of the international operating revenues were from operations in south america. all of the south american operating revenues were from argentina, colombia and ecuador. the future occurrence of one or more international events arising from the types of risks described above could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operation. 11 table of contents we depend on a limited number of vendors, some of which are thinly capitalized and the loss of any of which could disrupt our operations. certain key rig components are either purchased from or fabricated by a single or limited number of vendors, and we have no long-term contracts with many of these vendors. shortages could occur in these essential components due to an interruption of supply or increased demands in the industry. if we are unable to procure certain of such rig components, we would be required to reduce our rig construction or other operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if our principal fabricator, located on the texas gulf coast, was unable or unwilling to continue fabricating rig components, then we would have to transfer this work to other acceptable fabricators. this transfer could result in significant delay in the completion of new flexrigs. any significant interruption in the fabrication of rig components could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. certain key rig components are obtained from vendors that are, in some cases, thinly capitalized, independent companies that generate significant portions of their business from us or from a small group of companies in the energy industry. these vendors may be disproportionately affected by any loss of business, downturn in the energy industry or reduction or unavailability of credit. therefore, disruptions in rig component delivery may occur, and such disruptions and terminations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our securities portfolio may lose significant value due to a decline in equity prices and other market-related risks, thus impacting our debt ratio and financial strength. at september 30, 2014, we had a portfolio of securities with a total fair value of approximately $222 million, consisting of atwood oceanics, inc. and schlumberger, ltd. these securities are subject to a wide variety of market-related risks that could substantially reduce or increase the fair value of our holdings. the portfolio is recorded at fair value on our balance sheet with changes in unrealized after-tax value reflected in the equity section of our balance sheet. at november 13, 2014, the fair value of the portfolio had decreased to approximately $185 million. failure to comply with the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act or foreign anti-bribery legislation, other governmental regulations and environmental laws could adversely affect our business. the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act ("fcpa") and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions, including the united kingdom bribery act 2010, generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. we operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and, in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices and impact our business. although we have programs in place covering compliance with anti-bribery legislation, any failure to comply with the fcpa or other anti-bribery legislation could subject us to civil and criminal penalties or other sanctions, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operation. we could also face fines, sanctions and other penalties from authorities in the relevant foreign jurisdictions, including prohibition of our participating in or curtailment of business operations in those jurisdictions and the seizure of drilling rigs or other assets. additionally, many aspects of our operations are subject to government regulation, including those relating to drilling practices, pollution, disposal of hazardous substances and oil field waste. the united states and various other countries have environmental regulations which affect drilling operations. the cost of compliance with these laws could be substantial. a failure to comply with these laws and regulations could expose us to substantial civil and criminal penalties. in addition, environmental laws 12 table of contents and regulations in the united states impose a variety of requirements on "responsible parties" related to the prevention of oil spills and liability for damages from such spills. as an owner and operator of drilling rigs, we may be deemed to be a responsible party under these laws and regulations. we believe that we are in substantial compliance with all legislation and regulations affecting our operations in the drilling of oil and gas wells and in controlling the discharge of wastes. to date, compliance costs have not materially affected our capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position, although compliance measures may add to the costs of drilling operations. additional legislation or regulation may reasonably be anticipated, and the effect thereof on our operations cannot be predicted. regulation of greenhouse gases and climate change could have a negative impact on our business. scientific studies have suggested that emissions of certain gases, commonly referred to as "greenhouse gases" ("ghgs") and including carbon dioxide and methane, may be contributing to warming of the earth's atmosphere and other climatic changes. in response to such studies, the issue of climate change and the effect of ghg emissions, in particular emissions from fossil fuels, is attracting increasing attention worldwide. we are aware of the increasing focus of local, state, national and international regulatory bodies on ghg emissions and climate change issues. the united states congress may consider legislation to reduce ghg emissions. although it is not possible at this time to predict whether proposed legislation or regulations will be adopted, any such future laws and regulations could result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions. any additional costs or operating restrictions associated with legislation or regulations regarding ghg emissions could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. legal proceedings could have a negative impact on our business. the nature of our business makes us susceptible to legal proceedings and governmental investigations from time to time. lawsuits or claims against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. any litigation or claims, even if fully indemnified or insured, could negatively affect our reputation among our customers and the public, and make it more difficult for us to compete effectively or obtain adequate insurance in the future. our business and results of operations may be adversely affected by foreign currency restrictions and devaluation. our contracts for work in foreign countries generally provide for payment in u.s. dollars. however, in argentina we are paid in argentine pesos. the argentine branch of one of our second-tier subsidiaries remits u.s. dollars to its u.s. parent by converting the argentine pesos into u.s. dollars through the argentine foreign exchange market and repatriating the u.s. dollars. in the future, other contracts or applicable law may require payments to be made in foreign currencies. based upon current information, we believe that our exposure to potential losses from currency restrictions and devaluation in foreign countries is immaterial. however, there can be no assurance that we will not experience in argentina or elsewhere a devaluation of foreign currency, foreign exchange restrictions or other difficulties repatriating u.s. dollars even if we are able to negotiate contract provisions designed to mitigate such risks. in the event of future payments in foreign currencies and an inability to timely exchange foreign currencies for u.s. dollars, we may incur currency devaluation losses which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 13 table of contents our current backlog of contract drilling revenue may not be ultimately realized as fixed-term contracts may in certain instances be terminated without an early termination payment. fixed-term drilling contracts customarily provide for termination at the election of the customer, with an "early termination payment" to be paid to us if a contract is terminated prior to the expiration of the fixed term. however, under certain limited circumstances, such as destruction of a drilling rig, our bankruptcy, sustained unacceptable performance by us or delivery of a rig beyond certain grace and/or liquidated damage periods, no early termination payment would be paid to us. even if an early termination payment is owed to us, a poor global economic environment may affect the customer's ability to pay the early termination payment. we also may not be able to perform under these contracts due to events beyond our control, and our customers may seek to cancel or renegotiate our contracts for various reasons, including those described above. as of september 30, 2014, our contract drilling backlog was approximately $5.0 billion for future revenues under firm commitments. our inability or the inability of our customers to perform under our or their contractual obligations may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may have additional tax liabilities. we are subject to income taxes in the united states and numerous other jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. we are regularly audited by tax authorities. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different than what is reflected in income tax provisions and accruals. an audit or litigation could materially affect our financial position, income tax provision, net income, or cash flows in the period or periods challenged. it is also possible that future changes to tax laws (including tax treaties) could impact our ability to realize the tax savings recorded to date. shortages of drilling equipment and supplies could adversely affect our operations. the contract drilling business is highly cyclical. during periods of increased demand for contract drilling services, delays in delivery and shortages of drilling equipment and supplies can occur. these risks are intensified during periods when the industry experiences significant new drilling rig construction or refurbishment. any such delays or shortages could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. reliance on management and competition for experienced personnel may negatively impact our operations or financial results. we greatly depend on the efforts of our executive officers and other key employees to manage our operations. the loss of members of management could have a material effect on our business. similarly, we utilize highly skilled personnel in operating and supporting our businesses. in times of high utilization, it can be difficult to retain, and in some cases find, qualified individuals. although to date our operations have not been materially affected by competition for personnel, an inability to obtain or find a sufficient number of qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our business is subject to cybersecurity risks. threats to information technology systems associated with cybersecurity risks and cyber incidents or attacks continue to grow. cybersecurity attacks could include, but are not limited to, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to our data and the unauthorized release, corruption or loss of our data, loss of our intellectual property, theft of our flexrig and other technology, loss or 14 table of contents damage to our data delivery systems, other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in our critical systems, and increased costs to prevent, respond to or mitigate cybersecurity events. it is possible that our business, financial and other systems could be compromised, which might not be noticed for some period of time. although we utilize various procedures and controls to mitigate our exposure to such risk, cybersecurity attacks are evolving and unpredictable. the occurrence of such an attack could lead to financial losses and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we are not aware that any material cybersecurity breaches have occurred to date. unionization efforts and labor regulations in certain countries in which we operate could materially increase our costs or limit our flexibility. efforts may be made from time to time to unionize portions of our workforce. in addition, we may in the future be subject to strikes or work stoppages and other labor disruptions. additional unionization efforts, new collective bargaining agreements or work stoppages could materially increase our costs, reduce our revenues or limit our flexibility. any future implementation of price controls on oil and natural gas would affect our operations. the united states congress may in the future impose some form of price controls on either oil, natural gas, or both. any future limits on the price of oil or natural gas could negatively affect the demand for our services and, consequently, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. covenants in our debt agreements restrict our ability to engage in certain activities. our debt agreements pertaining to certain long-term unsecured debt and our unsecured revolving credit facility contain various covenants that may in certain instances restrict our ability to, among other things, incur, assume or guarantee additional indebtedness, incur liens, make loans or certain types of investments, sell or otherwise dispose of assets, enter into new lines of business, and merge or consolidate. in addition, our debt agreements also require us to maintain minimum current, funded leverage and interest coverage ratios. such restrictions may limit our ability to successfully execute our business plans, which may have adverse consequences on our operations. improvements in or new discoveries of alternative energy technologies could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. since our business depends on the level of activity in the oil and natural gas industry, any improvement in or new discoveries of alternative energy technologies that increase the use of alternative forms of energy and reduce the demand for oil and natural gas could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 43 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information required by this item may be found in item 1a "risk factors" and in item 7 "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" included in this form 10-k. 43 table of contentsrisk factors 7 risk factors in addition to the risk factors discussed elsewhere in this form 10-k, we caution that the following "risk factors" could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our business depends on the level of activity in the oil and natural gas industry, which is significantly impacted by the volatility of oil and natural gas prices and other factors. our business depends on the conditions of the land and offshore oil and natural gas industry. demand for our services depends on oil and natural gas industry exploration and production activity and expenditure levels, which are directly affected by trends in oil and natural gas prices. oil and natural gas prices, and market expectations regarding potential changes to these prices, significantly affect oil and natural gas industry activity. oil prices declined significantly during the second half of 2014 and continued in 2015. for example, in july of 2014 oil prices exceeded $100 per barrel. oil prices in recent months have been below $50 per barrel. in response, many of our customers announced significant reductions in their 2015 capital spending budgets. as such, demand for our drilling services significantly declined. at december 31, 2014, 294 out of an available 337 land rigs were working in the u.s. land segment. in contrast, at september 30, 2015, 145 out of an available 343 land rigs were contracted in the u.s. land 7 table of contents segment. after giving effect to new flexrigs placed into service and additional rig releases since september 30, 2015, as of november 12, 2015, 132 rigs remain contracted in the u.s. land segment. in the event oil prices remain depressed for a sustained period, or decline further, our u.s. land, international land and offshore segments may experience further, significant declines in both drilling activity and spot dayrate pricing which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. oil and natural gas prices are impacted by many factors beyond our control, including: the demand for oil and natural gas; the cost of exploring for, developing, producing and delivering oil and natural gas; the worldwide economy; expectations about future oil and natural gas prices; the desire and ability of the organization of petroleum exporting countries ("opec") to set and maintain production levels and pricing; the level of production by opec and non-opec countries; domestic and international tax policies; political and military conflicts in oil producing regions or other geographical areas or acts of terrorism in the u.s. or elsewhere; technological advances; the development and exploitation of alternative fuels; legal and other limitations or restrictions on exportation and/or importation of oil and natural gas; local and international political, economic and weather conditions; and the environmental and other laws and governmental regulations regarding exploration and development of oil and natural gas reserves. the level of land and offshore exploration, development and production activity and the price for oil and natural gas is volatile and is likely to continue to be volatile in the future. higher oil and natural gas prices do not necessarily translate into increased activity because demand for our services is typically driven by our customer's expectations of future commodity prices. however, a sustained decline in worldwide demand for oil and natural gas or prolonged low oil or natural gas prices would likely result in reduced exploration and development of land and offshore areas and a decline in the demand for our services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our offshore and land operations are subject to a number of operational risks, including environmental and weather risks, which could expose us to significant losses and damage claims. we are not fully insured against all of these risks and our contractual indemnity provisions may not fully protect us. our drilling operations are subject to the many hazards inherent in the business, including inclement weather, blowouts, well fires, loss of well control, pollution, and reservoir damage. these hazards could cause significant environmental damage, personal injury and death, suspension of drilling operations, serious damage or destruction of equipment and property and substantial damage to producing formations and surrounding lands and waters. 8 table of contents our offshore drilling operations are also subject to potentially greater environmental liability, including pollution of offshore waters and related negative impact on wildlife and habitat, adverse sea conditions and platform damage or destruction due to collision with aircraft or marine vessels. our offshore operations may also be negatively affected by blowouts or uncontrolled release of oil by third parties whose offshore operations are unrelated to our operations. we operate several platform rigs in the gulf of mexico. the gulf of mexico experiences hurricanes and other extreme weather conditions on a frequent basis, the frequency of which may increase with any climate change. damage caused by high winds and turbulent seas could potentially curtail operations on such platform rigs for significant periods of time until the damage can be repaired. moreover, even if our platform rigs are not directly damaged by such storms, we may experience disruptions in operations due to damage to customer platforms and other related facilities in the area. we have a new-build rig assembly facility located near the houston, texas ship channel, and our principal fabricator and other vendors are also located in the gulf coast region. due to their location, these facilities are exposed to potentially greater hurricane damage. we have indemnification agreements with many of our customers and we also maintain liability and other forms of insurance. in general, our drilling contracts contain provisions requiring our customers to indemnify us for, among other things, pollution and reservoir damage. however, our contractual rights to indemnification may be unenforceable or limited due to negligent or willful acts by us, our subcontractors and/or suppliers. our customers and other third parties may also dispute, or be unable to meet, their contractual indemnification obligations to us. accordingly, we may be unable to transfer these risks to our drilling customers and other third parties by contract or indemnification agreements. incurring a liability for which we are not fully indemnified or insured could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. with the exception of "named wind storm" risk in the gulf of mexico, we insure rigs and related equipment at values that approximate the current replacement cost on the inception date of the policies. however, we self-insure large deductibles under these policies. we also carry insurance with varying deductibles and coverage limits with respect to offshore platform rigs and "named wind storm" risk in the gulf of mexico. we have insurance coverage for comprehensive general liability, automobile liability, worker's compensation and employer's liability, and certain other specific risks. insurance is purchased over deductibles to reduce our exposure to catastrophic events. we retain a significant portion of our expected losses under our worker's compensation, general liability and automobile liability programs. the company self-insures a number of other risks including loss of earnings and business interruption. we are unable to obtain significant amounts of insurance to cover risks of underground reservoir damage. if a significant accident or other event occurs and is not fully covered by insurance or an enforceable or recoverable indemnity from a customer, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our insurance will not in all situations provide sufficient funds to protect us from all liabilities that could result from our drilling operations. our coverage includes aggregate policy limits. as a result, we retain the risk for any loss in excess of these limits. no assurance can be given that all or a portion of our coverage will not be cancelled during fiscal 2016, that insurance coverage will continue to be available at rates considered reasonable or that our coverage will respond to a specific loss. further, we may experience difficulties in collecting from our insurers or our insurers may deny all or a portion of our claims for insurance coverage. a tepid or deteriorating global economy may affect our business. as a result of volatility in oil and natural gas prices and a tepid global economic environment, we are unable to determine whether our customers will maintain or increase spending on exploration and 9 table of contents development drilling or whether customers and/or vendors and suppliers will be able to access financing necessary to sustain or increase their current level of operations, fulfill their commitments and/or fund future operations and obligations. in the event the global economic environment remains tepid or deteriorates, industry fundamentals may be impacted and result in stagnant or reduced demand for drilling rigs. furthermore, these factors may result in certain of our customers experiencing an inability to pay vendors, including us. the global economic environment in the past has experienced significant deterioration in a relatively short period of time and there can be no assurance that the global economic environment will not quickly deteriorate again due to one or more factors. these conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the contract drilling business is highly competitive and an excess of available drilling rigs may adversely affect our rig utilization and profit margins. competition in contract drilling involves such factors as price, rig availability and excess rig capacity in the industry, efficiency, condition and type of equipment, reputation, operating safety, environmental impact, and customer relations. competition is primarily on a regional basis and may vary significantly by region at any particular time. land drilling rigs can be readily moved from one region to another in response to changes in levels of activity, and an oversupply of rigs in any region may result, leading to increased price competition. although many contracts for drilling services are awarded based solely on price, we have been successful in establishing long-term relationships with certain customers which have allowed us to secure drilling work even though we may not have been the lowest bidder for such work. we have continued to attempt to differentiate our services based upon our flexrigs and our engineering design expertise, operational efficiency, safety and environmental awareness. however, development of new drilling technology by competitors has increased in recent years and future improvements in operational efficiency and safety by our competitors could further negatively affect our ability to differentiate our services. also, the strategy of differentiation is less effective during low commodity price environments when lower demand for drilling services intensifies price competition and makes it more difficult or impossible to compete on any basis other than price. the oil and natural gas services industry in the united states, for example, has experienced downturns in demand during the last decade, including a significant downturn that started in 2014. during these periods there have been substantially more drilling rigs available than necessary to meet demand. as a result of the current excess of available and more competitive drilling rigs, we may have difficulty sustaining rig utilization and profit margins, we may lose market share and price may become the primary factor in the award of contracts for drilling services. the loss of one or a number of our large customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in fiscal 2015, we received approximately 59 percent of our consolidated operating revenues from our ten largest contract drilling customers and approximately 27 percent of our consolidated operating revenues from our three largest customers (including their affiliates). we believe that our relationship with all of these customers is good; however, the loss of one or more of our larger customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. new technologies may cause our drilling methods and equipment to become less competitive, higher levels of capital expenditures may be necessary to keep pace with the bifurcation of the drilling industry, and growth through the building of new drilling rigs and improvement of existing rigs is not assured. the market for our services is characterized by continual technological developments that have resulted in, and will likely continue to result in, substantial improvements in the functionality and performance of rigs and equipment. our customers increasingly demand the services of newer, higher 10 table of contents specification drilling rigs. this results in a bifurcation of the drilling fleet and is evidenced by the higher specification drilling rigs (e.g., ac rigs) generally operating at higher overall utilization levels and day rates than the lower specification drilling rigs (e.g., mechanical or scr rigs). in addition, a significant number of lower specification rigs are being stacked and/or removed from service. as a result of this bifurcation, a higher level of capital expenditures will be required to maintain and improve existing rigs and equipment and purchase and construct newer, higher specification drilling rigs to meet the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers. since the late 1990's we have increased our drilling rig fleet through new construction. although we take measures to ensure that we use advanced oil and natural gas drilling technology, changes in technology or improvements in competitors' equipment could make our equipment less competitive. there can be no assurance that we will: have sufficient capital resources to build new, technologically advanced drilling rigs or to improve existing rigs; avoid cost overruns inherent in large construction projects resulting from numerous factors such as shortages of equipment, materials and skilled labor, unscheduled delays in delivery of ordered equipment and materials, unanticipated increases in costs of equipment, materials and labor, design and engineering problems, and financial or other difficulties; successfully integrate additional drilling rigs; effectively manage the growth and increased size of our organization and drilling fleet; successfully deploy idle, stacked or additional drilling rigs; maintain crews necessary to operate additional drilling rigs; or successfully improve our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects as a result of building new drilling rigs. if we are not successful in building new rigs and equipment or upgrading our existing rigs and equipment in a timely and cost-effective manner, we could lose market share. one or more technologies that we may implement in the future may not work as we expect and we may be adversely affected. additionally, new technologies, services or standards could render some of our services, drilling rigs or equipment obsolete, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operation. new legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing or other aspects of the oil and gas industry could negatively impact the drilling programs of our customers and, consequently, delay, limit or reduce the drilling services we provide. it is a common practice in our industry for our customers to recover natural gas and oil from shale and other formations through the use of horizontal drilling combined with hydraulic fracturing. hydraulic fracturing is the process of creating or expanding cracks, or fractures, in formations using water, sand and other additives pumped under high pressure into the formation. the hydraulic fracturing process is typically regulated by state oil and natural gas commissions. several states have adopted or are considering adopting regulations that could impose more stringent permitting, public disclosure, waste disposal and/or well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing operations or otherwise seek to ban fracturing activities altogether. in addition to state laws, some local municipalities have adopted or are considering adopting land use restrictions, such as city ordinances, that may restrict or prohibit the performance of well drilling in general and/or hydraulic fracturing in particular. members of the u.s. congress and a number of federal agencies are analyzing, or have been requested to review, a variety of environmental issues associated with hydraulic fracturing and the possibility of more stringent regulation. further, we conduct drilling activities in numerous states, including 11 table of contents oklahoma. in recent years, oklahoma has experienced an increase in earthquakes. some parties believe that there is a correlation between hydraulic fracturing related activities and the increased occurrence of seismic activity. the extent of this correlation, if any, is the subject of studies of both state and federal agencies the results of which remain uncertain. depending on the outcome of these or other studies pertaining to the impact of hydraulic fracturing, federal and state legislatures and agencies may seek to further regulate, restrict or prohibit hydraulic fracturing activities. increased regulation and attention given to the hydraulic fracturing process could lead to greater opposition to oil and gas production activities using hydraulic fracturing techniques, operational delays or increased operating and compliance costs in the production of oil and natural gas from shale plays, added difficulty in performing hydraulic fracturing, and potentially a decline in the completion of new oil and gas wells. we do not engage in any hydraulic fracturing activities. however, any new laws, regulations or permitting requirements regarding hydraulic fracturing could negatively impact the drilling programs of our customers and, consequently, delay, limit or reduce the drilling services we provide. widespread regulation significantly restricting or prohibiting hydraulic fracturing by our customers could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operation. failure to comply with the terms of our plea agreement with the united states department of justice may adversely affect our business. on november 8, 2013, the united states district court for the eastern district of louisiana approved the previously disclosed october 30, 2013 plea agreement between our wholly owned subsidiary, helmerich &amp; payne international drilling co. ("h&amp;pidc"), and the united states department of justice, united states attorney's office for the eastern district of louisiana ("doj"). the court's approval of the plea agreement resolved the doj's investigation into certain choke manifold testing irregularities that occurred in 2010 at one of h&amp;pidc's offshore platform rigs in the gulf of mexico. as part of the plea agreement, h&amp;pidc agreed, during a three-year probationary period, to not commit any further criminal violations and to fulfill the terms of an environmental compliance plan ("ecp") whose purpose is to develop and implement additional training and safety programs. our ability to comply with the terms of the plea agreement is dependent, in part, on our successful implementation of the additional training and safety programs set forth in the ecp. while not anticipated, a failure to comply with the terms of the plea agreement, including the ecp, could result in prosecution and other regulatory sanctions, and could otherwise adversely affect our business. we have been engaged in discussions with the inspector general's office of the department of interior regarding the same events that were the subject of the doj's investigation. although we presently believe that the outcome of our discussions will not have a material adverse effect on us, we can provide no assurances as to the timing or eventual outcome of these discussions. refer to item 3 "legal proceedings" and note 13 "commitments and contingencies" included in item 8 "financial statements and supplementary data" of this form 10-k for additional discussion of this subject. we are subject to the political, economic and social instability risks and local laws associated with doing business in certain foreign countries. we currently have operations in south america, the middle east and africa. in the future, we may further expand the geographic reach of our operations. as a result, we are exposed to certain political, economic and other uncertainties not encountered in u.s. operations, including increased risks of social unrest, strikes, terrorism, war, kidnapping of employees, nationalization, forced negotiation or modification of contracts, difficulty resolving disputes and enforcing contract provisions, expropriation of equipment as well as expropriation of oil and gas exploration and drilling rights, taxation policies, foreign exchange restrictions and restrictions on repatriation of income and capital, currency rate 12 table of contents fluctuations, increased governmental ownership and regulation of the economy and industry in the markets in which we operate, economic and financial instability of national oil companies, and restrictive governmental regulation, bureaucratic delays and general hazards associated with foreign sovereignty over certain areas in which operations are conducted. south american countries, in particular, have historically experienced uneven periods of economic growth, as well as recession, periods of high inflation and general economic and political instability. from time to time these risks have impacted our business. for example, on june 30, 2010, the venezuelan government expropriated 11 rigs and associated real and personal property owned by our venezuelan subsidiary. prior thereto, we also experienced currency devaluation losses in venezuela and difficulty repatriating u.s. dollars to the united states. additionally, there can be no assurance that there will not be changes in local laws, regulations and administrative requirements or the interpretation thereof which could have a material adverse effect on the profitability of our operations or on our ability to continue operations in certain areas. because of the impact of local laws, our future operations in certain areas may be conducted through entities in which local citizens own interests and through entities (including joint ventures) in which we hold only a minority interest or pursuant to arrangements under which we conduct operations under contract to local entities. while we believe that neither operating through such entities nor pursuant to such arrangements would have a material adverse effect on our operations or revenues, there can be no assurance that we will in all cases be able to structure or restructure our operations to conform to local law (or the administration thereof) on terms we find acceptable. although we attempt to minimize the potential impact of such risks by operating in more than one geographical area, during fiscal 2015, approximately 12 percent of our consolidated operating revenues were generated from the international contract drilling business. during fiscal 2015, approximately 72 percent of the international operating revenues were from operations in south america. all of the south american operating revenues were from argentina, colombia and ecuador. the future occurrence of one or more international events arising from the types of risks described above could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operation. failure to comply with the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act or foreign anti-bribery legislation could adversely affect our business. the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act ("fcpa") and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions, including the united kingdom bribery act 2010, generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. we operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and, in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices and impact our business. although we have programs in place covering compliance with anti-bribery legislation, any failure to comply with the fcpa or other anti-bribery legislation could subject us to civil and criminal penalties or other sanctions, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operation. we could also face fines, sanctions and other penalties from authorities in the relevant foreign jurisdictions, including prohibition of our participating in or curtailment of business operations in those jurisdictions and the seizure of drilling rigs or other assets. failure to comply with governmental and environmental laws could adversely affect our business. many aspects of our operations are subject to government regulation, including those relating to drilling practices, pollution, disposal of hazardous substances and oil field waste. the united states and various other countries have environmental regulations which affect drilling operations. the cost of compliance with these laws could be substantial. a failure to comply with these laws and regulations could expose us to substantial civil and criminal penalties. in addition, environmental laws and 13 table of contents regulations in the united states impose a variety of requirements on "responsible parties" related to the prevention of oil spills and liability for damages from such spills. as an owner and operator of drilling rigs, we may be deemed to be a responsible party under these laws and regulations. we believe that we are in substantial compliance with all legislation and regulations affecting our operations in the drilling of oil and gas wells and in controlling the discharge of wastes. to date, compliance costs have not materially affected our capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position, although compliance measures may add to the costs of drilling operations. additional legislation or regulation may reasonably be anticipated, and the effect thereof on our operations cannot be predicted. our current backlog of contract drilling revenue may continue to decline and may not be ultimately realized as fixed-term contracts may in certain instances be terminated without an early termination payment. fixed-term drilling contracts customarily provide for termination at the election of the customer, with an "early termination payment" to be paid to us if a contract is terminated prior to the expiration of the fixed term. however, under certain limited circumstances, such as destruction of a drilling rig, our bankruptcy, sustained unacceptable performance by us or delivery of a rig beyond certain grace and/or liquidated damage periods, no early termination payment would be paid to us. even if an early termination payment is owed to us, a customer may be unable or may refuse to pay the early termination payment. we also may not be able to perform under these contracts due to events beyond our control, and our customers may seek to cancel or renegotiate our contracts for various reasons, such as depressed market conditions. as of september 30, 2015, our contract drilling backlog was approximately $3.1 billion for future revenues under firm commitments. our contract drilling backlog may continue to decline as contract term coverage over time may not be offset by new term contracts as a result of the decline in the price of oil and capital spending reductions by our customers. our inability or the inability of our customers to perform under our or their contractual obligations may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our securities portfolio may lose significant value due to a decline in equity prices and other market-related risks, thus impacting our debt ratio and financial strength. at september 30, 2015, we had a portfolio of securities with a total fair value of approximately $91.5 million, consisting of atwood oceanics, inc. and schlumberger, ltd. these securities are subject to a wide variety of market-related risks that could substantially reduce or increase the fair value of our holdings. the portfolio is recorded at fair value on our balance sheet with changes in unrealized after-tax value reflected in the equity section of our balance sheet. at november 12, 2015, the fair value of the portfolio had increased to approximately $98.7 million. legal proceedings could have a negative impact on our business. the nature of our business makes us susceptible to legal proceedings and governmental investigations from time to time. lawsuits or claims against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. any litigation or claims, even if fully indemnified or insured, could negatively affect our reputation among our customers and the public, and make it more difficult for us to compete effectively or obtain adequate insurance in the future. 14 table of contents we depend on a limited number of vendors, some of which are thinly capitalized and the loss of any of which could disrupt our operations. certain key rig components are either purchased from or fabricated by a single or limited number of vendors, and we have no long-term contracts with many of these vendors. shortages could occur in these essential components due to an interruption of supply or increased demands in the industry. if we are unable to procure certain of such rig components, our ability to construct, maintain or improve drilling rigs could be impaired, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if our principal fabricator, located on the texas gulf coast, was unable or unwilling to continue fabricating rig components, then we would have to transfer this work to other acceptable fabricators. this transfer could result in delay in the completion of new flexrigs. any significant interruption in the fabrication of rig components could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. certain key rig components are obtained from vendors that are, in some cases, thinly capitalized, independent companies that generate significant portions of their business from us or from a small group of companies in the energy industry. these vendors may be disproportionately affected by any loss of business, downturn in the energy industry or reduction or unavailability of credit. therefore, disruptions in rig component delivery may occur, and such disruptions and terminations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our business and results of operations may be adversely affected by foreign currency restrictions and devaluation. our contracts for work in foreign countries generally provide for payment in u.s. dollars. however, in argentina we are paid in argentine pesos. the argentine branch of one of our second-tier subsidiaries remits u.s. dollars to its u.s. parent by converting the argentine pesos into u.s. dollars through the argentine foreign exchange market and repatriating the u.s. dollars. in the future, other contracts or applicable law may require payments to be made in foreign currencies. as such, there can be no assurance that we will not experience in argentina or elsewhere a devaluation of foreign currency, foreign exchange restrictions or other difficulties repatriating u.s. dollars even if we are able to negotiate contract provisions designed to mitigate such risks. we may incur currency devaluations which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may have additional tax liabilities. we are subject to income taxes in the united states and numerous other jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. we are regularly audited by tax authorities. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different than what is reflected in income tax provisions and accruals. an audit or litigation could materially affect our financial position, income tax provision, net income, or cash flows in the period or periods challenged. it is also possible that future changes to tax laws (including tax treaties) could impact our ability to realize the tax savings recorded to date. a downgrade in our credit rating could negatively impact our cost of and ability to access capital. our ability to access capital markets or to otherwise obtain sufficient financing is enhanced by our senior unsecured debt ratings as provided by major u.s. credit rating agencies. factors that may impact our credit ratings include debt levels, liquidity, asset quality, cost structure, commodity pricing levels 15 table of contents and other considerations. a ratings downgrade could adversely impact our ability in the future to access debt markets, increase the cost of future debt, and potentially require us to post letters of credit for certain obligations. regulation of greenhouse gases and climate change could have a negative impact on our business. scientific studies have suggested that emissions of certain gases, commonly referred to as "greenhouse gases" ("ghgs") and including carbon dioxide and methane, may be contributing to warming of the earth's atmosphere and other climatic changes. in response to such studies, the issue of climate change and the effect of ghg emissions, in particular emissions from fossil fuels, is attracting increasing attention worldwide. we are aware of the increasing focus of local, state, national and international regulatory bodies on ghg emissions and climate change issues. the united states congress may consider legislation to reduce ghg emissions. although it is not possible at this time to predict whether proposed legislation or regulations will be adopted, any such future laws and regulations could result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions. if we are unable to recover or pass through a significant level of our costs related to complying with climate change regulatory requirements imposed on us, it could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. further, to the extent financial markets view climate change and ghg emissions as a financial risk, this could negatively impact our cost of or access to capital. climate change and ghg regulation could also reduce the demand for hydrocarbons and, ultimately, demand for our services. reliance on management and competition for experienced personnel may negatively impact our operations or financial results. we greatly depend on the efforts of our executive officers and other key employees to manage our operations. the loss of members of management could have a material effect on our business. similarly, we utilize highly skilled personnel in operating and supporting our businesses. in times of high utilization, it can be difficult to retain, and in some cases find, qualified individuals. although to date our operations have not been materially affected by competition for personnel, an inability to obtain or find a sufficient number of qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. shortages of drilling equipment and supplies could adversely affect our operations. the contract drilling business is highly cyclical. during periods of increased demand for contract drilling services, delays in delivery and shortages of drilling equipment and supplies can occur. these risks are intensified during periods when the industry experiences significant new drilling rig construction or refurbishment. any such delays or shortages could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our business is subject to cybersecurity risks. threats to information technology systems associated with cybersecurity risks and cyber incidents or attacks continue to grow. cybersecurity attacks could include, but are not limited to, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to our data and the unauthorized release, corruption or loss of our data and personal information, loss of our intellectual property, theft of our flexrig and other technology, loss or damage to our data delivery systems, other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in our critical systems, and increased costs to prevent, respond to or mitigate cybersecurity events. it is possible that our business, financial and other systems could be compromised, which might not be noticed for some period of time. although we utilize various procedures and controls to mitigate our exposure to such risk, cybersecurity attacks are evolving and unpredictable. the occurrence of such an attack could lead to financial losses and have a material adverse effect on our 16 table of contents business, financial condition and results of operations. we are not aware that any material cybersecurity breaches have occurred to date. unionization efforts and labor regulations in certain countries in which we operate could materially increase our costs or limit our flexibility. efforts may be made from time to time to unionize portions of our workforce. in addition, we may in the future be subject to strikes or work stoppages and other labor disruptions. additional unionization efforts, new collective bargaining agreements or work stoppages could materially increase our costs, reduce our revenues or limit our flexibility. any future implementation of price controls on oil and natural gas would affect our operations. the united states congress may in the future impose some form of price controls on either oil, natural gas, or both. any future limits on the price of oil or natural gas could negatively affect the demand for our services and, consequently, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. covenants in our debt agreements restrict our ability to engage in certain activities. our debt agreements pertaining to certain long-term unsecured debt and our unsecured revolving credit facility contain various covenants that may in certain instances restrict our ability to, among other things, incur, assume or guarantee additional indebtedness, incur liens, make loans or certain types of investments, sell or otherwise dispose of assets, enter into new lines of business, and merge or consolidate. in addition, our debt agreements also require us to maintain minimum current, funded leverage and interest coverage ratios. such restrictions may limit our ability to successfully execute our business plans, which may have adverse consequences on our operations. improvements in or new discoveries of alternative energy technologies could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. since our business depends on the level of activity in the oil and natural gas industry, any improvement in or new discoveries of alternative energy technologies that increase the use of alternative forms of energy and reduce the demand for oil and natural gas could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 46 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information required by this item may be found in item 1a "risk factors" and in item 7 "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" included in this form 10-k. 46 table of contentsrisk factors 8 risk factors in addition to the risk factors discussed elsewhere in this form 10-k, we caution that the following "risk factors" could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our business depends on the level of activity in the oil and natural gas industry, which is significantly impacted by the volatility of oil and natural gas prices and other factors. our business depends on the conditions of the land and offshore oil and natural gas industry. demand for our services depends on oil and natural gas industry exploration and production activity and expenditure levels, which are directly affected by trends in oil and natural gas prices. oil and natural gas prices, and market expectations regarding potential changes to these prices, significantly affect oil and natural gas industry activity. oil prices declined significantly during the second half of 2014. volatility and the overall decline in prices continued through 2015 and into early 2016. for example, in july of 2014 oil prices exceeded $100 per barrel. oil prices dropped below $30 per barrel in early 2016. in recent months oil prices have generally remained below $50 per barrel. in response to the downward trend in prices, many of our customers reduced their capital spending budgets for 2015 and 2016. as such, demand for our drilling services declined further in the first half of fiscal 2016. we have, however, experienced an increase in demand and activity since may of 2016. at december 31, 2014, 294 out of an available 337 land rigs were working in the u.s. land segment. in contrast, at september 30, 2016, 95 out of an available 348 land rigs were contracted in the u.s. land segment. as of november 17, 2016, 105 rigs were contracted in the u.s. land segment. in the event oil prices remain depressed for a sustained period, or decline again, our u.s. land, international land and offshore segments may again experience significant declines in both drilling activity and spot dayrate pricing which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. oil and natural gas prices are impacted by many factors beyond our control, including: the demand for oil and natural gas; the cost of exploring for, developing, producing and delivering oil and natural gas; the worldwide economy; expectations about future oil and natural gas prices; the desire and ability of the organization of petroleum exporting countries ("opec") to set and maintain production levels and pricing; the level of production by opec and non-opec countries; the continued development of shale plays which may influence worldwide supply and prices; domestic and international tax policies; political and military conflicts in oil producing regions or other geographical areas or acts of terrorism in the u.s. or elsewhere; technological advances; 8 table of contents the development and exploitation of alternative fuels; legal and other limitations or restrictions on exportation and/or importation of oil and natural gas; local and international political, economic and weather conditions; and the environmental and other laws and governmental regulations regarding exploration and development of oil and natural gas reserves. the level of land and offshore exploration, development and production activity and the price for oil and natural gas is volatile and is likely to continue to be volatile in the future. higher oil and natural gas prices do not necessarily translate into increased activity because demand for our services is typically driven by our customer's expectations of future commodity prices. however, a sustained decline in worldwide demand for oil and natural gas or prolonged low oil or natural gas prices would likely result in reduced exploration and development of land and offshore areas and a decline in the demand for our services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our offshore and land operations are subject to a number of operational risks, including environmental and weather risks, which could expose us to significant losses and damage claims. we are not fully insured against all of these risks and our contractual indemnity provisions may not fully protect us. our drilling operations are subject to the many hazards inherent in the business, including inclement weather, blowouts, well fires, loss of well control, pollution, and reservoir damage. these hazards could cause significant environmental damage, personal injury and death, suspension of drilling operations, serious damage or destruction of equipment and property and substantial damage to producing formations and surrounding lands and waters. our offshore drilling operations are also subject to potentially greater environmental liability, including pollution of offshore waters and related negative impact on wildlife and habitat, adverse sea conditions and platform damage or destruction due to collision with aircraft or marine vessels. our offshore operations may also be negatively affected by blowouts or uncontrolled release of oil by third parties whose offshore operations are unrelated to our operations. we operate several platform rigs in the gulf of mexico. the gulf of mexico experiences hurricanes and other extreme weather conditions on a frequent basis, the frequency of which may increase with any climate change. damage caused by high winds and turbulent seas could potentially curtail operations on such platform rigs for significant periods of time until the damage can be repaired. moreover, even if our platform rigs are not directly damaged by such storms, we may experience disruptions in operations due to damage to customer platforms and other related facilities in the area. we have a facility located near the houston, texas ship channel where we upgrade and repair rigs and perform fabrication work, and our principal fabricator and other vendors are also located in the gulf coast region. due to their location, these facilities are exposed to potentially greater hurricane damage. we have indemnification agreements with many of our customers and we also maintain liability and other forms of insurance. in general, our drilling contracts contain provisions requiring our customers to indemnify us for, among other things, pollution and reservoir damage. however, our contractual rights to indemnification may be unenforceable or limited due to negligent or willful acts by us, our subcontractors and/or suppliers or by reason of state anti-indemnity laws. our customers and other third parties may also dispute, or be unable to meet, their contractual indemnification obligations to us. accordingly, we may be unable to transfer these risks to our drilling customers and other third parties by contract or indemnification agreements. incurring a liability for which we are not fully 9 table of contents indemnified or insured could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. with the exception of "named wind storm" risk in the gulf of mexico, we insure rigs and related equipment at values that approximate the current replacement cost on the inception date of the policies. however, we self-insure large deductibles under these policies. we also carry insurance with varying deductibles and coverage limits with respect to offshore platform rigs and "named wind storm" risk in the gulf of mexico. we have insurance coverage for comprehensive general liability, automobile liability, worker's compensation and employer's liability, and certain other specific risks. insurance is purchased over deductibles to reduce our exposure to catastrophic events. we retain a significant portion of our expected losses under our worker's compensation, general liability and automobile liability programs. the company self-insures a number of other risks including loss of earnings and business interruption, and most cyber risks. we are unable to obtain significant amounts of insurance to cover risks of underground reservoir damage. if a significant accident or other event occurs and is not fully covered by insurance or an enforceable or recoverable indemnity from a customer, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our insurance will not in all situations provide sufficient funds to protect us from all liabilities that could result from our drilling operations. our coverage includes aggregate policy limits. as a result, we retain the risk for any loss in excess of these limits. no assurance can be given that all or a portion of our coverage will not be cancelled during fiscal 2017, that insurance coverage will continue to be available at rates considered reasonable or that our coverage will respond to a specific loss. further, we may experience difficulties in collecting from our insurers or our insurers may deny all or a portion of our claims for insurance coverage. a tepid or deteriorating global economy may affect our business. as a result of volatility in oil and natural gas prices and a tepid global economic environment, we are unable to determine whether our customers will maintain or increase spending on exploration and development drilling or whether customers and/or vendors and suppliers will be able to access financing necessary to sustain or increase their current level of operations, fulfill their commitments and/or fund future operations and obligations. in the event the global economic environment remains tepid or deteriorates, industry fundamentals may be impacted and result in stagnant or reduced demand for drilling rigs. furthermore, these factors may result in certain of our customers experiencing bankruptcy or otherwise becoming unable to pay vendors, including us. the global economic environment in the past has experienced significant deterioration in a relatively short period of time and there can be no assurance that the global economic environment will not quickly deteriorate again due to one or more factors. these conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the contract drilling business is highly competitive and an excess of available drilling rigs may adversely affect our rig utilization and profit margins. competition in contract drilling involves such factors as price, rig availability and excess rig capacity in the industry, efficiency, condition and type of equipment, reputation, operating safety, environmental impact, and customer relations. competition is primarily on a regional basis and may vary significantly by region at any particular time. land drilling rigs can be readily moved from one region to another in response to changes in levels of activity, and an oversupply of rigs in any region may result, leading to increased price competition. although many contracts for drilling services are awarded based solely on price, we have been successful in establishing long-term relationships with certain customers which have allowed us to 10 table of contents secure drilling work even though we may not have been the lowest bidder for such work. we have continued to attempt to differentiate our services based upon our flexrigs and our engineering design expertise, operational efficiency, safety and environmental awareness. however, development of new drilling technology by competitors has increased in recent years and future improvements in operational efficiency and safety by our competitors could further negatively affect our ability to differentiate our services. also, the strategy of differentiation is less effective during low commodity price environments when lower demand for drilling services intensifies price competition and makes it more difficult or impossible to compete on any basis other than price. the oil and natural gas services industry in the united states has experienced downturns in demand during the last decade, including a significant downturn that started in 2014. today, as was the case in past downturns, there are substantially more drilling rigs available than necessary to meet demand. as a result of the current excess of available and more competitive drilling rigs, we may be unable to replace fixed-term contracts that were terminated early, extend expiring contracts or obtain new contracts in the spot market, and the day rates (and other material terms) under any new contracts may be on substantially less favorable rates and terms. as such, we may have difficulty sustaining rig utilization and profit margins in the future, we may lose market share and price may become the primary factor in the award of contracts for drilling services. the loss of one or a number of our large customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in fiscal 2016, we received approximately 68 percent of our consolidated operating revenues from our ten largest contract drilling customers and approximately 30 percent of our consolidated operating revenues from our three largest customers (including their affiliates). we believe that our relationship with all of these customers is good; however, the loss of one or more of our larger customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. new technologies may cause our drilling methods and equipment to become less competitive, higher levels of capital expenditures may be necessary to keep pace with the bifurcation of the drilling industry, and growth through the building of new drilling rigs and improvement of existing rigs is not assured. the market for our services is characterized by continual technological developments that have resulted in, and will likely continue to result in, substantial improvements in the functionality and performance of rigs and equipment. our customers increasingly demand the services of newer, higher specification drilling rigs. this results in a bifurcation of the drilling fleet and is evidenced by the higher specification drilling rigs (e.g., ac rigs) generally operating at higher overall utilization levels and day rates than the lower specification drilling rigs (e.g., mechanical or scr rigs). in addition, a significant number of lower specification rigs are being stacked and/or removed from service. as a result of this bifurcation, a higher level of capital expenditures will be required to maintain and improve existing rigs and equipment and purchase and construct newer, higher specification drilling rigs to meet the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers. since the late 1990's we have increased our drilling rig fleet through new construction. although we take measures to ensure that we use advanced oil and natural gas drilling technology, changes in technology or improvements in competitors' equipment could make our equipment less competitive. there can be no assurance that we will: have sufficient capital resources to improve existing rigs or build new, technologically advanced drilling rigs; avoid cost overruns inherent in large fabrication projects resulting from numerous factors such as shortages of equipment, materials and skilled labor, unscheduled delays in delivery of ordered 11 table of contents equipment and materials, unanticipated increases in costs of equipment, materials and labor, design and engineering problems, and financial or other difficulties; successfully deploy idle, stacked or new drilling rigs; effectively manage the increased size or future growth of our organization and drilling fleet; maintain crews necessary to operate existing or additional drilling rigs; or successfully improve our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects as a result of improving existing drilling rigs or building new drilling rigs. if we are not successful in upgrading existing rigs and equipment or building new rigs in a timely and cost-effective manner suitable to customer needs, we could lose market share. one or more technologies that we may implement in the future may not work as we expect and we may be adversely affected. additionally, new technologies, services or standards could render some of our services, drilling rigs or equipment obsolete, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operation. new legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing or other aspects of the oil and gas industry could negatively impact the drilling programs of our customers and, consequently, delay, limit or reduce the drilling services we provide. it is a common practice in our industry for our customers to recover natural gas and oil from shale and other formations through the use of horizontal drilling combined with hydraulic fracturing. hydraulic fracturing is the process of creating or expanding cracks, or fractures, in formations using water, sand and other additives pumped under high pressure into the formation. the hydraulic fracturing process is typically regulated by state oil and natural gas commissions. several states have adopted or are considering adopting regulations that could impose more stringent permitting, public disclosure, waste disposal and/or well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing operations or otherwise seek to ban fracturing activities altogether. in addition to state laws, some local municipalities have adopted or are considering adopting land use restrictions, such as city ordinances, that may restrict or prohibit the performance of well drilling in general and/or hydraulic fracturing in particular. members of the u.s. congress and a number of federal agencies are analyzing, or have been requested to review, a variety of environmental issues associated with hydraulic fracturing and the possibility of more stringent regulation. further, we conduct drilling activities in numerous states, including oklahoma. in recent years, oklahoma has experienced an increase in earthquakes. some parties believe that there is a correlation between hydraulic fracturing related activities and the increased occurrence of seismic activity. the extent of this correlation, if any, is the subject of studies of both state and federal agencies the results of which remain uncertain. depending on the outcome of these or other studies pertaining to the impact of hydraulic fracturing, federal and state legislatures and agencies may seek to further regulate, restrict or prohibit hydraulic fracturing activities. increased regulation and attention given to the hydraulic fracturing process could lead to greater opposition to oil and gas production activities using hydraulic fracturing techniques, operational delays or increased operating and compliance costs in the production of oil and natural gas from shale plays, added difficulty in performing hydraulic fracturing, and potentially a decline in the completion of new oil and gas wells. we do not engage in any hydraulic fracturing activities. however, any new laws, regulations or permitting requirements regarding hydraulic fracturing could negatively impact the drilling programs of our customers and, consequently, delay, limit or reduce the drilling services we provide. widespread regulation significantly restricting or prohibiting hydraulic fracturing by our customers could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operation. 12 table of contents we may be required to record impairment charges with respect to our drilling rigs. we evaluate our drilling rigs and other property whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. an impairment loss may exist when the estimated future cash flows are less than the carrying amount of the asset. lower utilization and day rates adversely affect our revenues and profitability. prolonged periods of low utilization and day rates may result in the recognition of impairment charges on certain of our drilling rigs if future cash flow estimates, based upon information available to management at the time, indicate that the carrying value of these rigs may not be recoverable. for example, in fiscal 2015, we performed an impairment evaluation of all our long-lived drilling assets. our evaluation resulted in $39.2 million of impairment charges to reduce the carrying value of seven scr land rigs within our international land segment to their estimated fair value. similarly, during the third quarter of fiscal 2016 we recorded a $6.3 million impairment charge to reduce the carrying value of certain rig and rig related equipment classified as held for sale in our u.s. land segment to their estimated fair values. although we are actively marketing idle drilling rigs in our fleet, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain future contracts for all of our rigs. as of september 30, 2016, we assessed our idle drilling rigs and determined no additional impairment charges were necessary. however, drilling rigs in our fleet may become impaired in the future if current depressed market conditions are prolonged or if oil and gas prices remain low or decline further. department of interior investigation could adversely affect our business. on november 8, 2013, the united states district court for the eastern district of louisiana approved the previously disclosed october 30, 2013 plea agreement between our wholly owned subsidiary, helmerich &amp; payne international drilling co. ("h&amp;pidc"), and the united states department of justice, united states attorney's office for the eastern district of louisiana ("doj"). the court's approval of the plea agreement resolved the doj's investigation into certain choke manifold testing irregularities that occurred in 2010 at one of h&amp;pidc's offshore platform rigs in the gulf of mexico. we have been engaged in discussions with the inspector general's office of the department of interior regarding the same events that were the subject of the doj's investigation. although we presently believe that the outcome of our discussions will not have a material adverse effect on us, we can provide no assurances as to the timing or eventual outcome of these discussions. refer to item 3 "legal proceedings" and note 13 "commitments and contingencies" included in item 8 "financial statements and supplementary data" of this form 10-k for additional discussion of this subject. we are subject to the political, economic and social instability risks and local laws associated with doing business in certain foreign countries. we currently have operations in south america, the middle east and africa. in the future, we may further expand the geographic reach of our operations. as a result, we are exposed to certain political, economic and other uncertainties not encountered in u.s. operations, including increased risks of social unrest, strikes, terrorism, war, kidnapping of employees, nationalization, forced negotiation or modification of contracts, difficulty resolving disputes and enforcing contract provisions, expropriation of equipment as well as expropriation of oil and gas exploration and drilling rights, taxation policies, foreign exchange restrictions and restrictions on repatriation of income and capital, currency rate fluctuations, increased governmental ownership and regulation of the economy and industry in the markets in which we operate, economic and financial instability of national oil companies, and restrictive governmental regulation, bureaucratic delays and general hazards associated with foreign sovereignty over certain areas in which operations are conducted. south american countries, in particular, have historically experienced uneven periods of economic growth, as well as recession, periods of high inflation and general economic and political instability. from time to time these risks 13 table of contents have impacted our business. for example, on june 30, 2010, the venezuelan government expropriated 11 rigs and associated real and personal property owned by our venezuelan subsidiary. prior thereto, we also experienced currency devaluation losses in venezuela and difficulty repatriating u.s. dollars to the united states. additionally, there can be no assurance that there will not be changes in local laws, regulations and administrative requirements or the interpretation thereof which could have a material adverse effect on the profitability of our operations or on our ability to continue operations in certain areas. because of the impact of local laws, our future operations in certain areas may be conducted through entities in which local citizens own interests and through entities (including joint ventures) in which we hold only a minority interest or pursuant to arrangements under which we conduct operations under contract to local entities. while we believe that neither operating through such entities nor pursuant to such arrangements would have a material adverse effect on our operations or revenues, there can be no assurance that we will in all cases be able to structure or restructure our operations to conform to local law (or the administration thereof) on terms we find acceptable. although we attempt to minimize the potential impact of such risks by operating in more than one geographical area, during fiscal 2016, approximately 14 percent of our consolidated operating revenues were generated from the international contract drilling business. during fiscal 2016, approximately 80 percent of the international operating revenues were from operations in south america. all of the south american operating revenues were from argentina, colombia and ecuador. the future occurrence of one or more international events arising from the types of risks described above could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operation. failure to comply with the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act or foreign anti-bribery legislation could adversely affect our business. the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act ("fcpa") and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions, including the united kingdom bribery act 2010, generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. we operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and, in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices and impact our business. although we have programs in place covering compliance with anti-bribery legislation, any failure to comply with the fcpa or other anti-bribery legislation could subject us to civil and criminal penalties or other sanctions, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operation. we could also face fines, sanctions and other penalties from authorities in the relevant foreign jurisdictions, including prohibition of our participating in or curtailment of business operations in those jurisdictions and the seizure of drilling rigs or other assets. failure to comply with governmental and environmental laws could adversely affect our business. many aspects of our operations are subject to government regulation, including those relating to drilling practices, pollution, disposal of hazardous substances and oil field waste. the united states and various other countries have environmental regulations which affect drilling operations. the cost of compliance with these laws could be substantial. a failure to comply with these laws and regulations could expose us to substantial civil and criminal penalties. in addition, environmental laws and regulations in the united states impose a variety of requirements on "responsible parties" related to the prevention of oil spills and liability for damages from such spills. as an owner and operator of drilling rigs, we may be deemed to be a responsible party under these laws and regulations. 14 table of contents we believe that we are in substantial compliance with all legislation and regulations affecting our operations in the drilling of oil and gas wells and in controlling the discharge of wastes. to date, compliance costs have not materially affected our capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position, although compliance measures may add to the costs of drilling operations. additional legislation or regulation may reasonably be anticipated, and the effect thereof on our operations cannot be predicted. our current backlog of contract drilling revenue may continue to decline and may not be ultimately realized as fixed-term contracts may in certain instances be terminated without an early termination payment. fixed-term drilling contracts customarily provide for termination at the election of the customer, with an "early termination payment" to be paid to us if a contract is terminated prior to the expiration of the fixed term. however, under certain limited circumstances, such as destruction of a drilling rig, our bankruptcy, sustained unacceptable performance by us or delivery of a rig beyond certain grace and/or liquidated damage periods, no early termination payment would be paid to us. even if an early termination payment is owed to us, a customer may be unable or may refuse to pay the early termination payment. we also may not be able to perform under these contracts due to events beyond our control, and our customers may seek to cancel or renegotiate our contracts for various reasons, such as depressed market conditions. as of september 30, 2016, our contract drilling backlog was approximately $1.8 billion for future revenues under firm commitments. our contract drilling backlog may continue to decline as contract term coverage over time may not be offset by new term contracts as a result of the decline in the price of oil and capital spending reductions by our customers. our inability or the inability of our customers to perform under our or their contractual obligations may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our securities portfolio may lose significant value due to a decline in equity prices and other market-related risks, thus impacting our debt ratio, financial strength, and possibly financial results. at september 30, 2016, we had a portfolio of securities with a total fair value of approximately $71.5 million, consisting of atwood oceanics, inc. and schlumberger, ltd. the total fair value of the portfolio of securities was $91.5 million at september 30, 2015. these securities are subject to a wide variety of market-related risks that could substantially reduce or increase the fair value of the holdings. the portfolio is recorded at fair value on the balance sheet with changes in unrealized after-tax value reflected in the equity section of the balance sheet unless a decline in fair value below our cost basis is considered to be other than temporary in which case the change is recorded through earnings. our position in atwood oceanics, inc. (an offshore drilling company severely impacted by the downturn in the energy sector) was in an unrealized loss position for under 30 days at september 30, 2015, and then dropped below cost again in december 2015 and continued to be in a loss position through fiscal 2016. during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2016, we determined the loss was other-than-temporary. as a result, we recognized a $26.0 million other-than-temporary impairment charge. at november 17, 2016, the fair value of the portfolio had decreased to approximately $68.8 million. we may reduce or suspend our dividend in the future. we have paid a quarterly dividend for many years. our most recent, quarterly dividend was $0.70 per share. in the future, our board of directors may, without advance notice, determine to reduce or suspend our dividend in order to maintain our financial flexibility and best position the company for long-term success. the declaration and amount of future dividends is at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, prospects, industry conditions, capital requirements and other factors and restrictions our board of directors deems relevant. the likelihood that dividends will be reduced or suspended is increased during periods of prolonged market weakness. in addition, our ability to pay dividends may be limited by agreements 15 table of contents governing our indebtedness now or in the future. there can be no assurance that we will continue to pay a dividend in the future. legal proceedings could have a negative impact on our business. the nature of our business makes us susceptible to legal proceedings and governmental investigations from time to time. in addition, during periods of depressed market conditions, such as the one we are currently experiencing, we may be subject to an increased risk of our customers, vendors, former employees and others initiating legal proceedings against us. lawsuits or claims against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. any litigation or claims, even if fully indemnified or insured, could negatively affect our reputation among our customers and the public, and make it more difficult for us to compete effectively or obtain adequate insurance in the future. we depend on a limited number of vendors, some of which are thinly capitalized and the loss of any of which could disrupt our operations. certain key rig components, parts and equipment are either purchased from or fabricated by a single or limited number of vendors, and we have no long-term contracts with many of these vendors. shortages could occur in these essential components due to an interruption of supply, increased demands in the industry or other reasons beyond our control. similarly, certain key rig components, parts and equipment are obtained from vendors that are, in some cases, thinly capitalized, independent companies that generate significant portions of their business from us or from a small group of companies in the energy industry. these vendors may be disproportionately affected by any loss of business, downturn in the energy industry or reduction or unavailability of credit. if we are unable to procure certain of such rig components, parts or equipment, our ability to maintain, improve, upgrade or construct drilling rigs could be impaired, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our business and results of operations may be adversely affected by foreign currency restrictions and devaluation. our contracts for work in foreign countries generally provide for payment in u.s. dollars. however, in argentina we are paid in argentine pesos. the argentine branch of one of our second-tier subsidiaries remits u.s. dollars to its u.s. parent by converting the argentine pesos into u.s. dollars through the argentine foreign exchange market and repatriating the u.s. dollars. in the future, other contracts or applicable law may require payments to be made in foreign currencies. as such, there can be no assurance that we will not experience in argentina or elsewhere a devaluation of foreign currency, foreign exchange restrictions or other difficulties repatriating u.s. dollars even if we are able to negotiate contract provisions designed to mitigate such risks. in december 2015, the argentine peso experienced a sharp devaluation resulting in an aggregate foreign currency loss of $8.5 million for the three months ended december 31, 2015. subsequent to the sharp devaluation, the argentine peso has significantly stabilized and the argentine foreign exchange market controls place fewer restrictions on repatriating u.s. dollars. however, in the future we may incur currency devaluations, foreign exchange restrictions or other difficulties repatriating u.s. dollars in argentina or elsewhere which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may have additional tax liabilities. we are subject to income taxes in the united states and numerous other jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. we are regularly audited by tax authorities. although we believe our tax estimates are 16 table of contents reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different than what is reflected in income tax provisions and accruals. an audit or litigation could materially affect our financial position, income tax provision, net income, or cash flows in the period or periods challenged. it is also possible that future changes to tax laws (including tax treaties) could impact our ability to realize the tax savings recorded to date. a downgrade in our credit rating could negatively impact our cost of and ability to access capital. our ability to access capital markets or to otherwise obtain sufficient financing is enhanced by our senior unsecured debt ratings as provided by major u.s. credit rating agencies. factors that may impact our credit ratings include debt levels, liquidity, asset quality, cost structure, commodity pricing levels and other considerations. a ratings downgrade could adversely impact our ability in the future to access debt markets, increase the cost of future debt, and potentially require us to post letters of credit for certain obligations. our ability to access capital markets could be limited. from time to time, we may need to access capital markets to obtain financing. our ability to access capital markets for financing could be limited by, among other things, oil and gas prices, our existing capital structure, our credit ratings, the state of the economy, the health of the drilling and overall oil and gas industry, and the liquidity of the capital markets. many of the factors that affect our ability to access capital markets are outside of our control. no assurance can be given that we will be able to access capital markets on terms acceptable to us when required to do so, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may not be able to generate cash to service all of our indebtedness, and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations. our ability to make future, scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. we may not be able to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal and interest on our indebtedness. if our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investment decisions and capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. furthermore, these alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial position at such time. any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. any failure to make payments of interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness on a timely basis would be a default (if not waived) and would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. regulation of greenhouse gases and climate change could have a negative impact on our business. scientific studies have suggested that emissions of certain gases, commonly referred to as "greenhouse gases" ("ghgs") and including carbon dioxide and methane, may be contributing to warming of the earth's atmosphere and other climatic changes. in response to such studies, the issue of climate change and the effect of ghg emissions, in particular emissions from fossil fuels, is attracting increasing attention worldwide. we are aware of the increasing focus of local, state, national and international regulatory bodies on ghg emissions and climate change issues. the united states congress may consider legislation to reduce ghg emissions. although it is not possible at this time to predict whether proposed legislation or regulations will be adopted, any such future laws and 17 table of contents regulations could result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions. if we are unable to recover or pass through a significant level of our costs related to complying with climate change regulatory requirements imposed on us, it could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. further, to the extent financial markets view climate change and ghg emissions as a financial risk, this could negatively impact our cost of or access to capital. climate change and ghg regulation could also reduce the demand for hydrocarbons and, ultimately, demand for our services. reliance on management and competition for experienced personnel may negatively impact our operations or financial results. we greatly depend on the efforts of our executive officers and other key employees to manage our operations. the loss of members of management could have a material effect on our business. similarly, we utilize highly skilled personnel in operating and supporting our businesses. in times of high utilization, it can be difficult to retain, and in some cases find, qualified individuals. although to date our operations have not been materially affected by competition for personnel, an inability to obtain or find a sufficient number of qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. shortages of drilling equipment and supplies could adversely affect our operations. the contract drilling business is highly cyclical. during periods of increased demand for contract drilling services, delays in delivery and shortages of drilling equipment and supplies can occur. these risks are intensified during periods when the industry experiences significant new drilling rig construction or refurbishment. any such delays or shortages could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our business is subject to cybersecurity risks. threats to information technology systems associated with cybersecurity risks and cyber incidents or attacks continue to grow. cybersecurity attacks could include, but are not limited to, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to our data and the unauthorized release, corruption or loss of our data and personal information, loss of our intellectual property, theft of our flexrig and other technology, loss or damage to our data delivery systems, other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in our critical systems, and increased costs to prevent, respond to or mitigate cybersecurity events. it is possible that our business, financial and other systems could be compromised, which might not be noticed for some period of time. although we utilize various procedures and controls to mitigate our exposure to such risk, cybersecurity attacks are evolving and unpredictable. the occurrence of such an attack could lead to financial losses and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we are not aware that any material cybersecurity breaches have occurred to date. unionization efforts and labor regulations in certain countries in which we operate could materially increase our costs or limit our flexibility. efforts may be made from time to time to unionize portions of our workforce. in addition, we may in the future be subject to strikes or work stoppages and other labor disruptions. additional unionization efforts, new collective bargaining agreements or work stoppages could materially increase our costs, reduce our revenues or limit our flexibility. 18 table of contents any future implementation of price controls on oil and natural gas would affect our operations. the united states congress may in the future impose some form of price controls on either oil, natural gas, or both. any future limits on the price of oil or natural gas could negatively affect the demand for our services and, consequently, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. covenants in our debt agreements restrict our ability to engage in certain activities. our debt agreements pertaining to certain long-term unsecured debt and our unsecured revolving credit facility contain various covenants that may in certain instances restrict our ability to, among other things, incur, assume or guarantee additional indebtedness, incur liens, sell or otherwise dispose of assets, enter into new lines of business, and merge or consolidate. in addition, our credit facility requires us to maintain a funded leverage ratio (as defined) of less than 50 percent and certain priority debt (as defined) may not exceed 17.5% of our net worth (as defined). such restrictions may limit our ability to successfully execute our business plans, which may have adverse consequences on our operations. improvements in or new discoveries of alternative energy technologies could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. since our business depends on the level of activity in the oil and natural gas industry, any improvement in or new discoveries of alternative energy technologies that increase the use of alternative forms of energy and reduce the demand for oil and natural gas could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 51 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information required by this item may be found in item 1a "risk factors" and in item 7 "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" included in this form 10-k. 51 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 37quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information required by this item may be found under the caption risk factors beginning on page 7 of this report and on the following pages of the company annual report under management discussion &amp; analysis of results of operations and financial condition and in notes to consolidated financial statements: market risk page foreign currency exchange rate risk 29-31 commodity price risk 31 interest rate risk 31-32 equity price risk 32 19risk factors 6 risk factors in addition to the risk factors discussed elsewhere in this form 10 k, we caution that the following risk factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 6 table of contents our business depends on the level of activity in the oil and natural gas industry, which is significantly impacted by the volatility of oil and natural gas prices and other factors. our business depends on the conditions of the land and offshore oil and natural gas industry. demand for our services depends on oil and natural gas industry exploration and production activity and expenditure levels, which are directly affected by trends in oil and natural gas prices and market expectations regarding such prices. oil prices declined significantly during the second half of 2014. volatility and the overall decline in prices continued through 2015 and into early 2016. for example, in july of 2014 oil prices exceeded $100 per barrel. oil prices dropped below $30 per barrel in early 2016. in fiscal 2016 oil prices rebounded but nevertheless remained volatile and continued to fluctuate in fiscal 2017 above and below $50 per barrel. the precipitous drop in oil prices and volatility over the last three years significantly affected the capital spending budgets of our customers, particularly in 2015 and 2016. as such, demand for our drilling services significantly declined from late 2014 through the first half of fiscal 2016. at december 31, 2014, 294 out of an available 337 land rigs were working in the u.s. land segment. in contrast, at june 30, 2016, 89 out of an available 348 land rigs were contracted in the u.s. land segment. due to the modest rebound in oil prices we have experienced an increase in the demand for our drilling services since may of 2016. nevertheless, our active rig count has remained below the height of drilling activity experienced in 2014 when oil prices were significantly higher. as of november 16, 2017, 200 rigs were contracted in the u.s. land segment. in the event oil prices remain depressed for a sustained period, or decline again, our u.s. land, international land and offshore segments may again experience significant declines in both drilling activity and spot dayrate pricing which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. oil and natural gas prices are impacted by many factors beyond our control, including: the demand for oil and natural gas; the cost of exploring for, developing, producing and delivering oil and natural gas; the worldwide economy; expectations about future oil and natural gas prices; the desire and ability of the organization of petroleum exporting countries ( opec ) to set and maintain production levels and pricing; the level of production by opec and non opec countries; the continued development of shale plays which may influence worldwide supply and prices; domestic and international tax policies; political and military conflicts in oil producing regions or other geographical areas or acts of terrorism in the u.s. or elsewhere; technological advances; the development and exploitation of alternative fuels; legal and other limitations or restrictions on exportation and/or importation of oil and natural gas; local and international political, economic and weather conditions; and the environmental and other laws and governmental regulations regarding exploration and development of oil and natural gas reserves. 7 table of contents the level of land and offshore exploration, development and production activity and the price for oil and natural gas is volatile and is likely to continue to be volatile in the future. higher oil and natural gas prices do not necessarily translate into increased activity because demand for our services is typically driven by our customer expectations of future commodity prices. however, a sustained decline in worldwide demand for oil and natural gas or prolonged low oil or natural gas prices would likely result in reduced exploration and development of land and offshore areas and a decline in the demand for our services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our offshore and land operations are subject to a number of operational risks, including environmental and weather risks, which could expose us to significant losses and damage claims. we are not fully insured against all of these risks and our contractual indemnity provisions may not fully protect us. our drilling operations are subject to the many hazards inherent in the business, including inclement weather, blowouts, well fires, loss of well control, pollution, and reservoir damage. these hazards could cause significant environmental damage, personal injury and death, suspension of drilling operations, serious damage or destruction of equipment and property and substantial damage to producing formations and surrounding lands and waters. our offshore drilling operations are also subject to potentially greater environmental liability, including pollution of offshore waters and related negative impact on wildlife and habitat, adverse sea conditions and platform damage or destruction due to collision with aircraft or marine vessels. our offshore operations may also be negatively affected by blowouts or uncontrolled release of oil by third parties whose offshore operations are unrelated to our operations. we operate several platform rigs in the gulf of mexico. the gulf of mexico experiences hurricanes and other extreme weather conditions on a frequent basis, the frequency of which may increase with any climate change. damage caused by high winds and turbulent seas could potentially curtail operations on such platform rigs for significant periods of time until the damage can be repaired. moreover, even if our platform rigs are not directly damaged by such storms, we may experience disruptions in operations due to damage to customer platforms and other related facilities in the area. we have a facility located near the houston, texas ship channel where we upgrade and repair rigs and perform fabrication work, and our principal fabricator and other vendors are also located in the gulf coast region. due to their location, these facilities are exposed to potentially greater hurricane damage. we have indemnification agreements with many of our customers and we also maintain liability and other forms of insurance. in general, our drilling contracts contain provisions requiring our customers to indemnify us for, among other things, pollution and reservoir damage. however, our contractual rights to indemnification may be unenforceable or limited due to negligent or willful acts by us, our subcontractors and/or suppliers or by reason of state anti indemnity laws. our customers and other third parties may also dispute, or be unable to meet, their contractual indemnification obligations to us. accordingly, we may be unable to transfer these risks to our drilling customers and other third parties by contract or indemnification agreements. incurring a liability for which we are not fully indemnified or insured could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. with the exception of named wind storm risk in the gulf of mexico, we insure rigs and related equipment at values that approximate the current replacement cost on the inception date of the policies. however, we self insure large deductibles under these policies. we also carry insurance with varying deductibles and coverage limits with respect to offshore platform rigs and named wind storm risk in the gulf of mexico. we have insurance coverage for comprehensive general liability, automobile liability, worker compensation and employer liability, and certain other specific risks. insurance is purchased over deductibles to reduce our exposure to catastrophic events. we retain a significant portion of our expected losses under our worker compensation, general liability and automobile liability programs. the company self insures a number of other risks including loss of earnings and business interruption, and most cyber risks. we are unable to obtain significant amounts of insurance to cover risks of underground reservoir damage. if a significant accident or other event occurs and is not fully covered by insurance or an enforceable or recoverable indemnity from a customer, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our insurance will not in all situations provide sufficient funds to protect us from all liabilities that could result from our drilling operations. our coverage includes aggregate policy limits. as a result, we retain the risk 8 table of contents for any loss in excess of these limits. no assurance can be given that all or a portion of our coverage will not be cancelled during fiscal 2018, that insurance coverage will continue to be available at rates considered reasonable or that our coverage will respond to a specific loss. further, we may experience difficulties in collecting from our insurers or our insurers may deny all or a portion of our claims for insurance coverage. global economic conditions may adversely affect our business. global economic conditions and volatility in oil and natural gas prices may impact the ability or desire of our customers to maintain or increase spending on exploration and development drilling and whether customers and/or vendors and suppliers will be able to access financing necessary to sustain or increase their current level of operations, fulfill their commitments and/or fund future operations and obligations. in the event the strength of the global economic environment fails to gain momentum or deteriorates in 2018, industry fundamentals may be impacted and result in stagnant or reduced demand for drilling rigs. furthermore, these factors may result in certain of our customers experiencing bankruptcy or otherwise becoming unable to pay vendors, including us. the global economic environment in the past has experienced significant deterioration in a relatively short period of time and there can be no assurance that the global economic environment will not quickly deteriorate again due to one or more factors. these conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the contract drilling business is highly competitive and an excess of available drilling rigs may adversely affect our rig utilization and profit margins. competition in contract drilling involves such factors as price, rig availability and excess rig capacity in the industry, efficiency, condition and type of equipment, reputation, operating safety, environmental impact, and customer relations. competition is primarily on a regional basis and may vary significantly by region at any particular time. land drilling rigs can be readily moved from one region to another in response to changes in levels of activity, and an oversupply of rigs in any region may result, leading to increased price competition. although many contracts for drilling services are awarded based solely on price, we have been successful in establishing long term relationships with certain customers which have allowed us to secure drilling work even though we may not have been the lowest bidder for such work. we have continued to attempt to differentiate our services based upon our flexrigs and our engineering design expertise, operational efficiency, safety and environmental awareness. however, development of new drilling technology by competitors has increased in recent years and future improvements in operational efficiency and safety by our competitors could further negatively affect our ability to differentiate our services. also, the strategy of differentiation is less effective during low commodity price environments when lower demand for drilling services intensifies price competition and makes it more difficult or impossible to compete on any basis other than price. the oil and natural gas services industry in the united states has experienced downturns in demand during the last decade, including a significant downturn that started in 2014 and bottomed out in 2016. today, as was the case following past downturns, there are substantially more drilling rigs available than necessary to meet the modest rebound in demand observed in 2016 and 2017. as a result of the current excess of available and more competitive drilling rigs, we may continue to experience difficulty in replacing fixed term contracts, extending expiring contracts or obtaining new contracts in the spot market, and the day rates (and other material terms) under new contracts may be on substantially less favorable rates and terms. as such, we may have difficulty sustaining or increasing rig utilization and profit margins in the future, we may lose market share and price may be a primary factor in the award of contracts for drilling services. the loss of one or a number of our large customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in fiscal 2017, we received approximately 55 percent of our consolidated operating revenues from our ten largest contract drilling customers and approximately 25 percent of our consolidated operating revenues from our three largest customers (including their affiliates). we believe that our relationship with all of these customers is good; however, the loss of one or more of our larger customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 9 table of contents new technologies may cause our drilling methods and equipment to become less competitive, higher levels of capital expenditures may be necessary to keep pace with the bifurcation of the drilling industry, and growth through the building of new drilling rigs and improvement of existing rigs is not assured. the market for our services is characterized by continual technological developments that have resulted in, and will likely continue to result in, substantial improvements in the functionality and performance of rigs and equipment. our customers increasingly demand the services of newer, higher specification drilling rigs. this results in a bifurcation of the drilling fleet and is evidenced by the higher specification drilling rigs (e.g., ac rigs) generally operating at higher overall utilization levels and day rates than the lower specification drilling rigs (e.g., mechanical or scr rigs). in addition, a significant number of lower specification rigs are being stacked and/or removed from service. as a result of this bifurcation, a higher level of capital expenditures will be required to maintain and improve existing rigs and equipment and purchase and construct newer, higher specification drilling rigs to meet the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers. since the late 1990 we have increased our drilling rig fleet through new construction. we also continue to modify our existing rig fleet to meet customer requirements. we have upgraded flexrigs to super-spec rigs, developed walking rigs, and made other improvements. although we take measures to ensure that we use advanced oil and natural gas drilling technology, changes in technology or improvements in competitors equipment could make our equipment less competitive. there can be no assurance that we will: have sufficient capital resources to improve existing rigs or build new, technologically advanced drilling rigs; avoid cost overruns inherent in large fabrication projects resulting from numerous factors such as shortages of equipment, materials and skilled labor, unscheduled delays in delivery of ordered equipment and materials, unanticipated increases in costs of equipment, materials and labor, design and engineering problems, and financial or other difficulties; successfully deploy idle, stacked, new or upgraded drilling rigs; effectively manage the increased size or future growth of our organization and drilling fleet; maintain crews necessary to operate existing or additional drilling rigs; or successfully improve our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects as a result of improving existing drilling rigs or building new drilling rigs. if we are not successful in upgrading existing rigs and equipment or building new rigs in a timely and cost effective manner suitable to customer needs, we could lose market share. one or more technologies that we may implement in the future may not work as we expect and we may be adversely affected. additionally, new technologies, services or standards could render some of our services, drilling rigs or equipment obsolete, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operation. technology disputes could negatively impact our operations or increase our costs. drilling rigs use proprietary technology and equipment which can involve potential infringement of a third party rights, including patent rights. the majority of the intellectual property rights relating to our drilling rigs are owned by us or certain of our supplying vendors. however, in the event that we or one of our supplying vendors becomes involved in a dispute over infringement rights relating to equipment owned or used by us, we may lose access to important equipment, or we could be required to cease use of some equipment or forced to modify our drilling rigs. we could also be required to pay license fees or royalties for the use of equipment. technology disputes involving us or our supplying vendors could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operation. 10 table of contents new legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing or other aspects of the oil and gas industry could negatively impact the drilling programs of our customers and, consequently, delay, limit or reduce the drilling services we provide. it is a common practice in our industry for our customers to recover natural gas and oil from shale and other formations through the use of horizontal drilling combined with hydraulic fracturing. hydraulic fracturing is the process of creating or expanding cracks, or fractures, in formations using water, sand and other additives pumped under high pressure into the formation. the hydraulic fracturing process is typically regulated by state oil and natural gas commissions. several states have adopted or are considering adopting regulations that could impose more stringent permitting, public disclosure, waste disposal and/or well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing operations or otherwise seek to ban fracturing activities altogether. in addition to state laws, some local municipalities have adopted or are considering adopting land use restrictions, such as city ordinances, that may restrict or prohibit the performance of well drilling in general and/or hydraulic fracturing in particular. members of the u.s. congress and a number of federal agencies are analyzing, or have been requested to review, a variety of environmental issues associated with hydraulic fracturing and the possibility of more stringent regulation. further, we conduct drilling activities in numerous states, including oklahoma. in recent years, oklahoma has experienced an increase in earthquakes. some parties believe that there is a correlation between hydraulic fracturing related activities and the increased occurrence of seismic activity. the extent of this correlation, if any, is the subject of studies of both state and federal agencies the results of which remain uncertain. depending on the outcome of these or other studies pertaining to the impact of hydraulic fracturing, federal and state legislatures and agencies may seek to further regulate, restrict or prohibit hydraulic fracturing activities. increased regulation and attention given to the hydraulic fracturing process could lead to greater opposition to oil and gas production activities using hydraulic fracturing techniques, operational delays or increased operating and compliance costs in the production of oil and natural gas from shale plays, added difficulty in performing hydraulic fracturing, and potentially a decline in the completion of new oil and gas wells. we do not engage in any hydraulic fracturing activities. however, any new laws, regulations or permitting requirements regarding hydraulic fracturing could negatively impact the drilling programs of our customers and, consequently, delay, limit or reduce the drilling services we provide. widespread regulation significantly restricting or prohibiting hydraulic fracturing by our customers could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operation. we may be required to record impairment charges with respect to our drilling rigs and other assets. we evaluate our drilling rigs and other assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. an impairment loss may exist when the estimated future cash flows are less than the carrying amount of the asset. lower utilization and day rates adversely affect our revenues and profitability. prolonged periods of low utilization and day rates may result in the recognition of impairment charges on certain of our drilling rigs if future cash flow estimates, based upon information available to management at the time, indicate that the carrying value of these rigs may not be recoverable. for example, in fiscal 2015, we performed an impairment evaluation of all our long lived drilling assets. our evaluation resulted in $39.2 million of impairment charges to reduce the carrying value of seven scr land rigs within our international land segment to their estimated fair value. similarly, during the third quarter of fiscal 2016 we recorded a $6.3 million impairment charge to reduce the carrying value of certain rig and rig related equipment classified as held for sale in our u.s. land segment to their estimated fair values. although we are actively marketing idle drilling rigs in our fleet, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain future contracts for all of our rigs. as of september 30, 2017, we assessed our idle drilling rigs and determined no additional impairment charges were necessary. however, drilling rigs in our fleet may become impaired in the future if market conditions deteriorate or if oil and gas prices decline further or remain low for a prolonged period. department of interior investigation could adversely affect our business. on november 8, 2013, the united states district court for the eastern district of louisiana approved the previously disclosed october 30, 2013 plea agreement between our wholly owned subsidiary, helmerich &amp; payne international drilling co. ( h&amp;pidc ), and the united states department of justice, united states attorney office for the eastern district of louisiana ( doj ). the court approval of the plea agreement resolved the doj investigation into certain choke manifold testing irregularities that occurred in 2010 at one of h&amp;pidc offshore platform rigs in the gulf of mexico. we also engaged in discussions with the inspector general office of the department of interior 11 table of contents ( doi ) regarding the same events that were the subject of the doj investigation. although we do not presently anticipate any further action by the doi in this matter, we can provide no assurances as to the timing or eventual outcome of the doi consideration of the matter. refer also to item 3 legal proceedings and note 14 commitments and contingencies included in item 8 financial statements and supplementary data of this form 10 k for discussion of this subject. our business and results of operations may be adversely affected by foreign political, economic and social instability risks, foreign currency restrictions and devaluation, and various local laws associated with doing business in certain foreign countries. we currently have drilling operations in south america and the middle east. in the future, we may further expand the geographic reach of our operations. as a result, we are exposed to certain political, economic and other uncertainties not encountered in u.s. operations, including increased risks of social unrest, strikes, terrorism, war, kidnapping of employees, nationalization, forced negotiation or modification of contracts, difficulty resolving disputes and enforcing contract provisions, expropriation of equipment as well as expropriation of oil and gas exploration and drilling rights, taxation policies, foreign exchange restrictions and restrictions on repatriation of income and capital, currency rate fluctuations, increased governmental ownership and regulation of the economy and industry in the markets in which we operate, economic and financial instability of national oil companies, and restrictive governmental regulation, bureaucratic delays and general hazards associated with foreign sovereignty over certain areas in which operations are conducted. south american countries, in particular, have historically experienced uneven periods of economic growth, as well as recession, periods of high inflation and general economic and political instability. from time to time these risks have impacted our business. for example, on june 30, 2010, the venezuelan government expropriated 11 rigs and associated real and personal property owned by our venezuelan subsidiary. prior thereto, we also experienced currency devaluation losses in venezuela and difficulty repatriating u.s. dollars to the united states. today, our contracts for work in foreign countries generally provide for payment in u.s. dollars. however, in argentina we are paid in argentine pesos. the argentine branch of one of our second-tier subsidiaries then remits u.s. dollars to its u.s. parent by converting the argentine pesos into u.s. dollars through the argentine foreign exchange market and repatriating the u.s. dollars. estimates from published sources indicate that argentina is a highly inflationary country, which is defined as cumulative inflation rates exceeding 100 percent in the most recent three-year period based on inflation data published by the respective governments. regardless, all of our foreign operations use the u.s. dollar as the functional currency and local currency monetary assets and liabilities are remeasured into u.s. dollars with gains and losses resulting from foreign currency transactions included in current results of operations. in december 2015, the argentine peso experienced a sharp devaluation resulting in a foreign currency loss of $8.4 million for fiscal 2016. subsequent to the sharp devaluation, the argentine peso significantly stabilized and the argentine foreign exchange market controls now place fewer restrictions on repatriating u.s. dollars. for fiscal 2017, we experienced a foreign currency loss of $4.0 million in argentina. our aggregate foreign currency losses for fiscal 2016 and 2017 were $9.3 million and $7.1 million, respectively. in the future, other contracts or applicable law may require payments to be made in foreign currencies. as such, there can be no assurance that we will not experience in argentina or elsewhere a devaluation of foreign currency, foreign exchange restrictions or other difficulties repatriating u.s. dollars even if we are able to negotiate contract provisions designed to mitigate such risks. in the event of future payments in foreign currencies and an inability to timely exchange foreign currencies for u.s. dollars, we may incur currency devaluation losses which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. additionally, there can be no assurance that there will not be changes in local laws, regulations and administrative requirements or the interpretation thereof which could have a material adverse effect on the profitability of our operations or on our ability to continue operations in certain areas. because of the impact of local laws, our future operations in certain areas may be conducted through entities in which local citizens own interests and through entities (including joint ventures) in which we hold only a minority interest or pursuant to arrangements under which we conduct operations under contract to local entities. while we believe that neither operating through such entities nor pursuant to such arrangements would have a material adverse effect on our operations or revenues, there can be no assurance that we 12 table of contents will in all cases be able to structure or restructure our operations to conform to local law (or the administration thereof) on terms we find acceptable. although we attempt to minimize the potential impact of such risks by operating in more than one geographical area, during fiscal 2017, approximately 12 percent of our consolidated operating revenues were generated from the international contract drilling business. during fiscal 2017, approximately 92 percent of the international operating revenues were from operations in south america. substantially all of the south american operating revenues were from argentina and colombia. the future occurrence of one or more international events arising from the types of risks described above could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operation. drilling contracts with national oil companies may expose us to greater risks than we normally assume in drilling contracts with non-governmental customers. we currently own and operate rigs that are contracted with foreign national oil companies. in the future we may expand our international operations and enter into additional, significant contracts with national oil companies. the terms of these contracts may contain non-negotiable provisions and may expose us to greater commercial, political, operational and other risks than we assume in other contracts. foreign contracts may expose us to materially greater environmental liability and other claims for damages (including consequential damages) and personal injury related to our operations, or the risk that the contract may be terminated by our customer without cause on short-term notice, contractually or by governmental action, or under certain conditions that may not provide us with an early termination payment. we can provide no assurance that increased risk exposure will not have an adverse impact on our future operations or that we will not increase the number of rigs contracted to national oil companies with commensurate additional contractual risks. risks that accompany contracts with national oil companies could ultimately have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operation failure to comply with the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act or foreign anti bribery legislation could adversely affect our business. the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act ( fcpa ) and similar anti bribery laws in other jurisdictions, including the united kingdom bribery act 2010, generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. we operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and, in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices and impact our business. although we have programs in place covering compliance with anti bribery legislation, any failure to comply with the fcpa or other anti bribery legislation could subject us to civil and criminal penalties or other sanctions, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operation. we could also face fines, sanctions and other penalties from authorities in the relevant foreign jurisdictions, including prohibition of our participating in or curtailment of business operations in those jurisdictions and the seizure of drilling rigs or other assets. failure to comply with governmental and environmental laws could adversely affect our business. many aspects of our operations are subject to government regulation, including those relating to drilling practices, pollution, disposal of hazardous substances and oil field waste. the united states and various other countries have environmental regulations which affect drilling operations. the cost of compliance with these laws could be substantial. a failure to comply with these laws and regulations could expose us to substantial civil and criminal penalties. in addition, environmental laws and regulations in the united states impose a variety of requirements on responsible parties related to the prevention of oil spills and liability for damages from such spills. as an owner and operator of drilling rigs, we may be deemed to be a responsible party under these laws and regulations. we believe that we are in substantial compliance with all legislation and regulations affecting our operations in the drilling of oil and gas wells and in controlling the discharge of wastes. to date, compliance costs have not materially affected our capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position, although compliance measures may add to the costs of drilling operations. additional legislation or regulation may reasonably be anticipated, and the effect thereof on our operations cannot be predicted. 13 table of contents our current backlog of contract drilling revenue may continue to decline and may not be ultimately realized as fixed term contracts may in certain instances be terminated without an early termination payment. fixed term drilling contracts customarily provide for termination at the election of the customer, with an early termination payment to be paid to us if a contract is terminated prior to the expiration of the fixed term. however, under certain limited circumstances, such as destruction of a drilling rig, our bankruptcy, sustained unacceptable performance by us or delivery of a rig beyond certain grace and/or liquidated damage periods, no early termination payment would be paid to us. even if an early termination payment is owed to us, a customer may be unable or may refuse to pay the early termination payment. we also may not be able to perform under these contracts due to events beyond our control, and our customers may seek to cancel or renegotiate our contracts for various reasons, such as depressed market conditions. as of september 30, 2017, our contract drilling backlog was approximately $1.3 billion for future revenues under firm commitments. our contract drilling backlog may continue to decline over time as existing contract term coverage may not be offset by new term contracts as a result of any number of factors, such as low or declining oil prices and capital spending reductions by our customers. our inability or the inability of our customers to perform under our or their contractual obligations may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our contract drilling expense includes fixed costs that may not decline in proportion to decreases in rig utilization and dayrates. our contract drilling expense includes all direct and indirect costs associated with the operation, maintenance and support of our drilling equipment, which is often not affected by changes in dayrates and utilization. during periods of reduced revenue and/or activity, certain of our fixed costs (such as depreciation) may not decline and often we may incur additional costs. during times of reduced utilization, reductions in costs may not be immediate as we may incur additional costs associated with maintaining and cold stacking a rig, or we may not be able to fully reduce the cost of our support operations in a particular geographic region due to the need to support the remaining drilling rigs in that region. accordingly, a decline in revenue due to lower dayrates and/or utilization may not be offset by a corresponding decrease in contract drilling expense which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations . our securities portfolio may lose significant value due to a decline in equity prices and other market related risks, thus impacting our debt ratio and financial strength. at september 30, 2017, we had a portfolio of securities with a total fair value of approximately $70.1 million, consisting of atwood oceanics, inc. ( atwood ) and schlumberger, ltd. the total fair value of the portfolio of securities was $71.5 million at september 30, 2016. in may of 2017, ensco plc ( ensco ) announced that it entered into a definitive merger agreement under which ensco would acquire atwood in an all-stock transaction. the transaction closed on october 6, 2017. under the terms of the merger agreement, we received 1.60 shares of ensco for each share of our atwood common stock. the securities in our portfolio are subject to a wide variety of market related risks that could substantially reduce or increase the fair value of the holdings. in general, the portfolio is recorded at fair value on the balance sheet with changes in unrealized after tax value reflected in the equity section of the balance sheet. however, where a decline in fair value below our cost basis is considered to be other than temporary, the change in value is recorded as a charge through earnings. during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2016, we determined that a loss was other than temporary and we recognized a $26.0 million impairment charge. no such impairment charge was recognized in fiscal 2017. at november 16, 2017, the fair value of the portfolio had decreased to approximately $63.2 million. we may reduce or suspend our dividend in the future. we have paid a quarterly dividend for many years. our most recent, quarterly dividend was $0.70 per share. in the future, our board of directors may, without advance notice, determine to reduce or suspend our dividend in order to maintain our financial flexibility and best position the company for long term success. the declaration and amount of future dividends is at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, prospects, industry conditions, capital requirements and other factors and restrictions our board of directors deems relevant. the likelihood that dividends will be reduced or suspended is increased during periods of prolonged market weakness. in addition, our ability to pay dividends may be limited by agreements governing our indebtedness now or in the future. there can be no assurance that we will continue to pay a dividend in the future. 14 table of contents legal proceedings could have a negative impact on our business. the nature of our business makes us susceptible to legal proceedings and governmental investigations from time to time. in addition, during periods of depressed market conditions we may be subject to an increased risk of our customers, vendors, former employees and others initiating legal proceedings against us. lawsuits or claims against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. any litigation or claims, even if fully indemnified or insured, could negatively affect our reputation among our customers and the public, and make it more difficult for us to compete effectively or obtain adequate insurance in the future. we depend on a limited number of vendors, some of which are thinly capitalized and the loss of any of which could disrupt our operations. certain key rig components, parts and equipment are either purchased from or fabricated by a single or limited number of vendors, and we have no long term contracts with many of these vendors. shortages could occur in these essential components due to an interruption of supply, the acquisition of a vendor by a competitor, increased demands in the industry or other reasons beyond our control. similarly, certain key rig components, parts and equipment are obtained from vendors that are, in some cases, thinly capitalized, independent companies that generate significant portions of their business from us or from a small group of companies in the energy industry. these vendors may be disproportionately affected by any loss of business, downturn in the energy industry or reduction or unavailability of credit. if we are unable to procure certain of such rig components, parts or equipment, our ability to maintain, improve, upgrade or construct drilling rigs could be impaired, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may have additional tax liabilities and/or be limited in our use of net operating losses and tax credits. we are subject to income taxes in the united states and numerous other jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. we are regularly audited by tax authorities. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different than what is reflected in income tax provisions and accruals. an audit or litigation could materially affect our financial position, income tax provision, net income, or cash flows in the period or periods challenged. it is also possible that future changes to tax laws (including tax treaties) could impact our ability to realize the tax savings recorded to date. our ability to benefit from our deferred tax assets depends on us having sufficient future taxable income to utilize our net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards before they expire. our net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards are subject to review and potential disallowance upon audit by the tax authorities of the jurisdictions where these tax attributes are incurred. future changes to tax laws (including tax treaties) could also impact our effective rate. a downgrade in our credit rating could negatively impact our cost of and ability to access capital. our ability to access capital markets or to otherwise obtain sufficient financing is enhanced by our senior unsecured debt ratings as provided by major u.s. credit rating agencies. factors that may impact our credit ratings include debt levels, liquidity, asset quality, cost structure, commodity pricing levels and other considerations. a ratings downgrade could adversely impact our ability in the future to access debt markets, increase the cost of future debt, and potentially require us to post letters of credit for certain obligations. our ability to access capital markets could be limited. from time to time, we may need to access capital markets to obtain financing. our ability to access capital markets for financing could be limited by, among other things, oil and gas prices, our existing capital structure, our credit ratings, the state of the economy, the health of the drilling and overall oil and gas industry, and the liquidity of the capital markets. many of the factors that affect our ability to access capital markets are outside of our control. no assurance can be given that we will be able to access capital markets on terms acceptable to us when required to do so, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 15 table of contents we may not be able to generate cash to service all of our indebtedness, and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations. our ability to make future, scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. we may not be able to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal and interest on our indebtedness. if our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investment decisions and capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. furthermore, these alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial position at such time. any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. any failure to make payments of interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness on a timely basis would be a default (if not waived) and would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. regulation of greenhouse gases and climate change could have a negative impact on our business. scientific studies have suggested that emissions of certain gases, commonly referred to as greenhouse gases ( ghgs ) and including carbon dioxide and methane, may be contributing to warming of the earth atmosphere and other climatic changes. in response to such studies, the issue of climate change and the effect of ghg emissions, in particular emissions from fossil fuels, is attracting increasing attention worldwide. we are aware of the increasing focus of local, state, national and international regulatory bodies on ghg emissions and climate change issues. the united states congress may consider legislation to reduce ghg emissions. although it is not possible at this time to predict whether proposed legislation or regulations will be adopted, any such future laws and regulations could result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions. if we are unable to recover or pass through a significant level of our costs related to complying with climate change regulatory requirements imposed on us, it could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. further, to the extent financial markets view climate change and ghg emissions as a financial risk, this could negatively impact our cost of or access to capital. climate change and ghg regulation could also reduce the demand for hydrocarbons and, ultimately, demand for our services. reliance on management and competition for experienced personnel may negatively impact our operations or financial results. we greatly depend on the efforts of our executive officers and other key employees to manage our operations. the loss of members of management could have a material effect on our business. similarly, we utilize highly skilled personnel in operating and supporting our businesses. in times of high utilization, it can be difficult to retain, and in some cases find, qualified individuals. although to date our operations have not been materially affected by competition for personnel, an inability to obtain or find a sufficient number of qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. shortages of drilling equipment and supplies could adversely affect our operations. the contract drilling business is highly cyclical. during periods of increased demand for contract drilling services, delays in delivery and shortages of drilling equipment and supplies can occur. these risks are intensified during periods when the industry experiences significant new drilling rig construction or refurbishment. any such delays or shortages could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our business is subject to cybersecurity risks. threats to information technology systems associated with cybersecurity risks and cyber incidents or attacks continue to grow. cybersecurity attacks could include, but are not limited to, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to our data and the unauthorized release, corruption or loss of our data and personal information, loss of our intellectual property, theft of our flexrig and other technology, loss or damage to our data delivery systems, other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in our critical systems, and increased costs to prevent, respond to or mitigate cybersecurity events. it is possible that our business, financial and other systems could be 16 table of contents compromised, which might not be noticed for some period of time. although we utilize various procedures and controls to mitigate our exposure to such risk, cybersecurity attacks are evolving and unpredictable. the occurrence of such an attack could lead to financial losses and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we are not aware that any material cybersecurity breaches have occurred to date. unexpected events could disrupt our business and adversely affect our results of operations. unexpected and entirely unanticipated events, including, without limitation, computer system disruptions, unplanned power outages, fires or explosions at drilling rigs, natural disasters such as hurricanes and tornadoes, war or terrorist activities, supply disruptions, failure of equipment, changes in laws and/or regulations impacting our businesses, pandemic illness and other unforeseeable circumstances that may arise from our increasingly connected world or otherwise could adversely affect our business. it is not possible for us to predict the occurrence or consequence of any such events. however, any such events could reduce our ability to provide drilling services, reduce demand for our services, or make it more difficult or costly to provide services which ultimately may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. unionization efforts and labor regulations in certain countries in which we operate could materially increase our costs or limit our flexibility. efforts may be made from time to time to unionize portions of our workforce. in addition, we may in the future be subject to strikes or work stoppages and other labor disruptions. additional unionization efforts, new collective bargaining agreements or work stoppages could materially increase our costs, reduce our revenues or limit our flexibility. any future implementation of price controls on oil and natural gas would affect our operations. the united states congress may in the future impose some form of price controls on either oil, natural gas, or both. any future limits on the price of oil or natural gas could negatively affect the demand for our services and, consequently, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. covenants in our debt agreements restrict our ability to engage in certain activities. our debt agreements pertaining to certain long term unsecured debt and our unsecured revolving credit facility contain various covenants that may in certain instances restrict our ability to, among other things, incur, assume or guarantee additional indebtedness, incur liens, sell or otherwise dispose of assets, enter into new lines of business, and merge or consolidate. in addition, our credit facility requires us to maintain a funded leverage ratio (as defined) of less than 50 percent and certain priority debt (as defined) may not exceed 17.5% of our net worth (as defined). such restrictions may limit our ability to successfully execute our business plans, which may have adverse consequences on our operations. improvements in or new discoveries of alternative energy technologies could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. since our business depends on the level of activity in the oil and natural gas industry, any improvement in or new discoveries of alternative energy technologies that increase the use of alternative forms of energy and reduce the demand for oil and natural gas could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 45 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information required by this item may be found in item 1a risk factors and in item 7 management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk included in this form 10 k. 45 table of contentsrisk factors 16 risk factors an investment in our securities involves a variety of risks. in addition to the other information included and incorporated by reference in this annual report and the risk factors discussed elsewhere in this report, the following risk factors should be carefully considered, as they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. there may be other additional risks, uncertainties and matters not presently known to us or that we believe to be immaterial that could nevertheless have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our business depends on the level of activity in the oil and natural gas industry, which is significantly impacted by the volatility of oil and natural gas prices and other factors. our business depends on the conditions of the land and offshore oil and natural gas industry. demand for our services and the rates we are able to charge for such services depend on oil and natural gas industry exploration and production activity and expenditure levels, which are directly affected by trends in oil and natural gas prices and market expectations regarding such prices. oil prices continued to fluctuate in fiscal year 2018, but have settled into a range between approximately $50 and $77 per barrel. oil prices began rebounding in february 2016, and we began experiencing increased demand for our services in may 2016. nevertheless, both the industry active rig count and our active rig count have remained below the peak drilling activity level reached in 2014 when oil prices were significantly higher. as of november 8, 2018, 236 rigs included in our u.s. land segment were under contract, of which 146 were fixed term and 90 were well-to-well. in the event oil prices become depressed for a sustained period, or decline again, our u.s. land, international land and offshore segments may again experience significant declines in both drilling activity and spot dayrate pricing, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. oil and natural gas prices and production levels can be volatile and are impacted by many factors beyond our control, including: the domestic and foreign supply of, and demand for, oil, natural gas and related products; the cost of exploring for, developing, producing and delivering oil and natural gas; uncertainty in capital and commodities markets and the ability of oil and natural gas producers to access capital; the worldwide economy; expectations about future oil and natural gas prices and production levels; the availability of and constraints in pipeline, storage and other transportation capacity in the basins in which we operate, including, for example, takeaway constraints experienced in the permian basin; actions of the organization of petroleum exporting countries ( opec ), its members and other state-controlled oil companies relating to oil price and production levels, including announcements of potential changes to such levels; the levels of production of oil and natural gas of non-opec countries; the continued development of shale plays which may influence worldwide supply and prices; tax policies of the united states and other countries involved in global energy markets; political and military conflicts in oil producing regions or other geographical areas or acts of terrorism in the united states or elsewhere; technological advances that are related to oil and natural gas recovery or that affect the global demand for energy; the development and exploitation of alternative energy sources; legal and other limitations or restrictions on exportation and/or importation of oil and natural gas; local and international political, economic and weather conditions, especially in oil and natural gas producing countries; laws and governmental regulations affecting the use of oil and natural gas; and the environmental and other laws and governmental regulations affecting exploration and development of oil and natural gas reserves. the level of land and offshore exploration, development and production activity and the prices of oil and natural gas are volatile and are likely to continue to be volatile in the future. higher oil and natural gas prices do not necessarily translate into increased activity because demand for our services is typically driven by our customers expectations of 16 table of contents future commodity prices. however, a sustained decline in worldwide demand for oil and natural gas or prolonged low oil or natural gas prices would likely result in reduced exploration and development of land and offshore areas and a decline in the demand for our services, which would likely have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. global economic conditions and volatility in oil and gas prices may adversely affect our business. global economic conditions and/or volatility in oil and natural gas prices may impact the ability or desire of our customers to maintain or increase spending on exploration and development drilling. furthermore, our customers, vendors and/or suppliers may be unable to access financing necessary to sustain or increase their current level of operations, fulfill their commitments and/or fund future operations and obligations. an economic slowdown or recession in the united states or in any other country that significantly affects the supply of or demand for oil or natural gas could negatively impact our operations and therefore adversely affect our results. challenging economic conditions may result in certain of our customers experiencing bankruptcy or otherwise becoming unable to pay vendors, including us. the global economic environment in the past has experienced significant deterioration in a relatively short period of time and there can be no assurance that the global economic environment will not quickly deteriorate again due to one or more factors. these conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the contract drilling business is highly competitive and an excess of available drilling rigs may adversely affect our rig utilization and profit margins. the contract drilling business is highly competitive. competition in contract drilling involves such factors as price, efficiency, condition, type and operational capability of equipment, reputation, operating safety, environmental impact, customer relations, rig availability and excess rig capacity in the industry. competition is primarily on a regional basis and may vary significantly by region at any particular time. land drilling rigs can be readily moved from one region to another in response to changes in levels of activity, which could result in an oversupply of rigs in any region, leading to increased price competition. development of new drilling technology by competitors has increased in recent years and future improvements in operational efficiency and safety by our competitors could further negatively affect our ability to differentiate our services. furthermore, in the event that commodity prices decline, the strategy of differentiation may be less effective if the lower demand for drilling and related technology services intensifies price competition and diminishes the importance of other factors. we periodically seek to increase the prices on our services to offset rising costs and to generate higher returns for our stockholders. however, we operate in a very competitive industry and we are not always successful in raising or maintaining our existing prices. with the active rig count below the peak seen in 2014 and many rigs, including highly capable ac rigs, still idle, there is considerable pricing pressure in the industry. even if we are able to increase our prices, we may not be able to do so at a rate that is sufficient to offset rising costs without adversely affecting our activity levels. the inability to maintain our pricing and to increase our pricing as costs increase could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. the oil and natural gas services industry in the united states has experienced downturns in demand during the last decade, including a significant downturn that started in 2014 and bottomed out in 2016. following such a downturn, there may be substantially more drilling rigs available than necessary to meet demand as oil and natural gas prices, as well as drilling activity, rebound. in the event of a glut of available and more competitive drilling rigs, we may continue to experience difficulty in replacing fixed term contracts, extending expiring contracts or obtaining new contracts in the spot market, and new contracts may contain lower dayrates and substantially less favorable terms. as such, we may have difficulty sustaining or increasing rig utilization and profit margins in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 17 table of contents new technologies may cause our drilling methods and equipment to become less competitive and it may become necessary to incur higher levels of capital expenditures in order to keep pace with the bifurcation of rigs in the drilling industry, and growth through the building of new drilling rigs and improvement of existing rigs is not assured. the market for our services is characterized by continual technological developments that have resulted in, and will likely continue to result in, substantial improvements in the functionality and performance of rigs and equipment. our customers increasingly demand the services of newer, higher specification drilling rigs. this results in a bifurcation of the drilling fleet and is evidenced by the higher specification drilling rigs (e.g., ac rigs) generally operating at higher overall utilization levels and dayrates than the lower specification drilling rigs (e.g., scr rigs). in addition, a significant number of lower specification rigs are being stacked and/or removed from service. as a result of this demand for high-spec rigs, a higher level of capital expenditures will be required to maintain and improve existing rigs and equipment and purchase and construct newer, higher specification drilling rigs to meet the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers. although we take measures to ensure that we develop and use advanced oil and natural gas drilling technology, changes in technology or improvements in competitors equipment could make our equipment less competitive. there can be no assurance that we will: have sufficient capital resources to improve existing rigs or build new, technologically advanced drilling rigs; avoid cost overruns inherent in large fabrication projects resulting from numerous factors such as shortages or unscheduled delays in delivery of equipment or materials, inadequate levels of skilled labor, unanticipated increases in costs of equipment, materials and labor, design and engineering problems, and financial or other difficulties; successfully deploy idle, stacked, new or upgraded drilling rigs; effectively manage the increased size or future growth of our organization and drilling fleet; maintain crews necessary to operate existing or additional drilling rigs; or successfully improve our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects as a result of improving existing drilling rigs or building new drilling rigs. if we are not successful in upgrading existing rigs and equipment or building new rigs in a timely and cost effective manner suitable to customer needs, demand for our services could decline and we could lose market share. one or more technologies that we may implement in the future may not work as we expect and our business, financial condition, results of operations and reputation could be adversely affected as a result. additionally, new technologies, services or standards could render some of our services, drilling rigs or equipment obsolete, which could reduce our competitiveness and have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our drilling related operations are subject to a number of operational risks, including environmental and weather risks, which could expose us to significant losses and damage claims. we are not fully insured against all of these risks and our contractual indemnity provisions may not fully protect us. our operations are subject to the many hazards inherent in the business, including inclement weather, blowouts, explosions, well fires, loss of well control, pollution, and reservoir damage. these hazards could cause significant environmental damage, personal injury and death, suspension of operations, serious damage or destruction of equipment and property and substantial damage to producing formations and surrounding lands and waters. an accident resulting in significant environmental damage, or injuries or fatalities involving our employees or other persons could also trigger investigations by federal, state or local authorities. such an accident and subsequent crisis management efforts could cause us to incur substantial expenses in connection with investigation and remediation as well as cause lasting damage to our reputation. our offshore drilling operations are also subject to potentially significant risks and liabilities attributable to or resulting from adverse environmental conditions, including pollution of offshore waters and related negative impact on wildlife and habitat, adverse sea conditions and platform damage or destruction due to collision with aircraft or marine vessels. our offshore drilling operations may also be negatively affected by a blowout or an uncontrolled release of oil or hazardous substances by third parties whose offshore operations are unrelated to our operations. we operate several platform rigs in the gulf of mexico. the gulf of mexico experiences hurricanes and other extreme weather conditions on a frequent basis, which may increase with any climate change. see below the physical effects of climate change and the regulation of greenhouse gases and climate change could have a negative impact on our business. damage caused 18 table of contents by high winds and turbulent seas could potentially curtail operations on our platform rigs for significant periods of time until the damage can be repaired. moreover, even if our platform rigs are not directly damaged by such storms, we may experience disruptions in operations due to damage to customer platforms and other related facilities in the area. we also own a facility located near the houston, texas ship channel where we upgrade and repair rigs and perform fabrication work, and our principal fabricator and other vendors are also located in the gulf coast region and could be exposed to damage or disruption by hurricanes and other extreme weather conditions, including coastal flooding, which in turn could affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. it is customary in our business to have mutual indemnification agreements with customers on a knock-for-knock basis, which means that we and our customers assume liability for our respective personnel and property. in general, our drilling contracts contain provisions requiring our customers to indemnify us for, among other things, pollution and reservoir damage. however, our contractual rights to indemnification may be unenforceable or limited due to negligent or willful acts by us, our subcontractors and/or suppliers or by reason of state anti indemnity laws. our customers and other third parties may also dispute, or be unable to meet, their contractual indemnification obligations to us. accordingly, we may be unable to transfer these risks to our customers and other third parties by contract or indemnification agreements. incurring a liability for which we are not fully indemnified or insured could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we insure land rigs and related equipment at values that approximate the current replacement cost on the inception date of the policies. however, we self-insure large deductibles under these policies. we also carry insurance with varying deductibles and coverage limits with respect to offshore platform rigs and named wind storm risk in the gulf of mexico. we have insurance coverage for comprehensive general liability, automobile liability, workers compensation and employer liability, and certain other specific risks. insurance is purchased over deductibles to reduce our exposure to catastrophic events. we retain a significant portion of our expected losses under our workers compensation, general liability and automobile liability programs. the company self insures a number of other risks, including loss of earnings and business interruption, and most cyber risks. we are unable to obtain significant amounts of insurance to cover risks of underground reservoir damage. if a significant accident or other event occurs and is not fully covered by insurance or an enforceable or recoverable indemnity from a customer, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our insurance will not in all situations provide sufficient funds to protect us from all losses and liabilities that could result from our operations. our coverage includes aggregate policy limits. as a result, we retain the risk for any loss in excess of these limits. no assurance can be given that all or a portion of our coverage will not be cancelled during fiscal year 2019, that insurance coverage will continue to be available at rates considered reasonable or that our coverage will respond to a specific loss. further, we may experience difficulties in collecting from our insurers or our insurers may deny all or a portion of our claims for insurance coverage. the physical effects of climate change and the regulation of greenhouse gases and climate change could have a negative impact on our business. the physical and regulatory effects of climate change could have a negative impact on our operations, our customers operations and the overall demand for our products. scientific studies have suggested that emissions of certain gases, commonly referred to as greenhouse gases ( ghgs ) and including carbon dioxide and methane, may be contributing to warming of the earth atmosphere and other climatic changes. in response to such studies, the issue of climate change and the effect of ghg emissions, in particular emissions from fossil fuels, is attracting increasing attention worldwide. we are aware of the increasing focus of local, state, regional, national and international regulatory bodies on ghg emissions and climate change issues. legislation to regulate ghg emissions has periodically been introduced in the u.s. congress and such legislation may be proposed in the future. in addition, in december 2015, the u.s. joined the international community at the 21st conference of the parties of the united nations framework convention on climate change (the unfccc ) in paris, france in creating an agreement (the paris agreement ) that requires member countries to review and represent a progression in their intended nationally determined ghg contributions, which set ghg emission reduction goals every five years beginning in 2020. the agreement entered into full force in november 2016. on june 1, 2017, the president of the united states announced that the u.s. planned to withdraw from the paris agreement and to seek negotiations to either reenter the paris agreement on different terms or establish a new 19 table of contents framework agreement. the paris agreement provides for a four-year exit process beginning when it took effect in november 2016, which would result in an effective exit date of november 2020. the united states adherence to the exit process is uncertain and/or the terms on which the united states may reenter the paris agreement or a separately negotiated agreement are unclear at this time. the aim of the paris agreement was to hold the increase in the average global temperature to well below 2 c (3.6 f) above pre-industrial levels with efforts to limit the rise to 1.5 c (2.7 f) to protect against the more severe consequences of climate forecasted by scientific studies. these consequences include increased coastal flooding, droughts and associated wild fires, heavy precipitation events, stresses on water supply and agriculture, increased poverty, and negative impacts on health. in connection with the decision to adopt the paris agreement, the unfccc invited the intergovernmental panel on climate change (the ipcc ) to prepare a special report focused on the impacts of an increase in the average global temperature of 1.5 c above pre-industrial levels and related ghg emission pathways. the 2018 ipcc report concludes that the measures set forth in the paris agreement are insufficient and that more aggressive targets and measures will be needed. the 2018 ipcc report indicates that ghgs must be reduced from 2010 levels by 45 percent by 2030 and 100 percent by 2050 to prevent global warming of 1.5 c above pre-industrial levels. it is not possible at this time to predict the timing and effect of climate change or to predict the effect of the paris agreement or whether additional ghg legislation, regulations or other measures will be adopted. however, more aggressive efforts by governments and non-governmental organizations to reduce ghg emissions appear likely based on the findings set forth in the 2018 ipcc report and any such future laws and regulations could result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions. if we are unable to recover or pass through a significant level of our costs related to complying with climate change regulatory requirements imposed on us, it could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. further, to the extent financial markets view climate change and ghg emissions as a financial risk, this could negatively impact our cost of or access to capital. climate change and ghg regulation could also negatively impact the drilling programs of our customers and, consequently, delay, limit or reduce the services we provide. an increased focus by the public on the reduction of ghg emissions as well as the results of the physical impacts of climate change could affect the demand for our customers products and have a negative effect on our business. beyond financial and regulatory impacts, the projected severe effects of climate change have the potential to directly affect our facilities and operations and those of our customers. see above our drilling related operations are subject to a number of operational risks, including environmental and weather risks, which could expose us to significant losses and damage claims. we are not fully insured against all of these risks and our contractual indemnity provisions may not fully protect us. our business is subject to cybersecurity risks. threats to information technology systems associated with cybersecurity risks and cyber incidents or attacks continue to grow. cybersecurity risks could include, but are not limited to, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to our data and the unauthorized release, corruption or loss of our data and personal information, interruptions in communication, loss of our intellectual property or theft of our flexrig and other sensitive or proprietary technology (which could have a negative impact on our ability to compete), loss or damage to our data delivery systems, or other electronic security, including with our property and equipment. these cybersecurity risks could disrupt our operations, negatively impact our ability to compete and result in injury to our reputation, downtime, loss of revenue, and increased costs to prevent, respond to or mitigate cybersecurity events. it is possible that our business, financial and other systems could be compromised, which could go unnoticed for a prolonged period of time. while various procedures and controls can be utilized to mitigate exposure to such risk, cyber incidents and attacks are evolving and unpredictable. additionally, customers or third parties upon whom we rely face similar threats, which could directly or indirectly impact our business and operations. the occurrence of a cyber-incident or attack could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our acquisitions, dispositions and investments may not result in anticipated benefits and may present risks not originally contemplated, which may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, consolidated results of operations and consolidated financial condition. we continually seek opportunities to maximize efficiency and value through various transactions, including purchases or sales of assets, businesses, investments, or joint venture interests. for example, in december 2017, we completed the acquisition of magnetic variation services, llc. we also completed a merger transaction with motive 20 table of contents drilling technologies, inc. in june 2017. these strategic transactions, among others, are intended to (but may not) result in the realization of savings, the creation of efficiencies, the offering of new products or services, the generation of cash or income, or the reduction of risk. acquisition transactions may use cash on hand or be financed by additional borrowings or by the issuance of our common stock. these transactions may also affect our liquidity, consolidated results of operations and consolidated financial condition. these transactions also involve risks, and we cannot ensure that: any acquisitions we attempt will be completed on the terms announced, or at all; any acquisitions would result in an increase in income or provide an adequate return of capital or other anticipated benefits; any acquisitions would be successfully integrated into our operations and internal controls; the due diligence conducted prior to an acquisition would uncover situations that could result in financial or legal exposure, including under the fcpa, or that we will appropriately quantify the exposure from known risks; any disposition would not result in decreased earnings, revenue, or cash flow; use of cash for acquisitions would not adversely affect our cash available for capital expenditures and other uses; or any dispositions, investments, or acquisitions, including integration efforts, would not divert management resources. we have allocated a portion of the purchase price of certain acquisitions to goodwill and other intangible assets. generally, the amount allocated is the excess of the purchase price over the net identifiable assets acquired. at september 30, 2018, we had goodwill of $64.8 million and other intangible assets of $73.2 million. if we experience future negative changes in our business climate or our results of operations such that we determine that goodwill or intangible assets are impaired, we will be required to record impairment charges with respect to such assets. during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2018, we recorded goodwill and intangible assets impairment losses of $5.6 million related to the terravici reporting unit, one of our technology reporting units, which is included in asset impairment charge on the consolidated statement of operations for the fiscal year ended september 30, 2018. our goodwill impairment analysis performed on our remaining technology reporting units in the fourth quarter of fiscal years 2018 and 2017 did not result in impairment charges. technology disputes could negatively impact our operations or increase our costs. drilling rigs use proprietary technology and equipment which can involve potential infringement of a third party rights, or a third party infringement of our rights, including patent rights. the majority of the intellectual property rights relating to our drilling rigs and technology services are owned by us or certain of our supplying vendors. however, in the event that we or one of our supplying vendors becomes involved in a dispute over infringement of intellectual property rights relating to equipment owned or used by us, we may lose access to important equipment or technology, be required to cease use of some equipment or technology be forced to modify our drilling rigs or technology, or be required to pay license fees or royalties for the use of equipment or technology. in addition, we may lose a competitive advantage in the event we are unsuccessful in enforcing our rights against third parties. as a result, any technology disputes involving us or our customers or vendors could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. unexpected events could disrupt our business and adversely affect our results of operations. unexpected or unanticipated events, including, without limitation, computer system disruptions, unplanned power outages, fires or explosions at drilling rigs, natural disasters such as hurricanes and tornadoes, war or terrorist activities, supply disruptions, failure of equipment, changes in laws and/or regulations impacting our businesses, pandemic illness and other unforeseeable circumstances that may arise from our increasingly connected world or otherwise, could adversely affect our business. it is not possible for us to predict the occurrence or consequence of any such events. however, any such events could create unforeseen liabilities, reduce our ability to provide drilling and related technology services, reduce demand for our services, or make it more difficult or costly to provide services, any of which may ultimately have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 21 table of contents failure to comply with the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act or foreign anti bribery legislation could adversely affect our business. the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act ( fcpa ) and similar anti bribery laws in other jurisdictions, including the united kingdom bribery act 2010, generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. we operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and, in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices and impact our business. although we have programs in place requiring compliance with anti bribery legislation, any failure to comply with the fcpa or other anti bribery legislation could subject us to civil and criminal penalties or other sanctions, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operation. we could also face fines, sanctions and other penalties from authorities in the relevant foreign jurisdictions, including prohibition of our participating in or curtailment of business operations in those jurisdictions and the seizure of drilling rigs or other assets. new legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing or other aspects of the oil and gas industry could negatively impact the drilling programs of our customers and, consequently, delay, limit or reduce the services we provide. we do not engage in any hydraulic fracturing activities. however, it is a common practice in our industry for our customers to recover natural gas and oil from shale and other formations through the use of horizontal drilling combined with hydraulic fracturing. hydraulic fracturing is the process of creating or expanding cracks, or fractures, in formations using water, sand and other additives pumped under high pressure into the formation. the hydraulic fracturing process is typically regulated by state oil and natural gas commissions. several states have adopted or are considering adopting regulations that could impose more stringent permitting, public disclosure, waste disposal and/or well construction requirements on oil and gas development, including hydraulic fracturing operations, or otherwise seek to ban fracturing activities altogether. in addition to state laws, some local municipalities have adopted or are considering adopting land use restrictions, such as city ordinances, that may restrict or prohibit the performance of well drilling in general and/or hydraulic fracturing in particular. members of the u.s. congress and a number of federal agencies are analyzing, or have been requested to review, a variety of environmental issues associated with hydraulic fracturing and the possibility of more stringent regulation. any new laws, regulations or permitting requirements regarding hydraulic fracturing could negatively impact the drilling programs of our customers and, consequently, delay, limit or reduce the services we provide. for example, the environmental protection agency has asserted federal regulatory authority pursuant to the federal safe drinking water act over certain hydraulic fracturing activities involving the use of diesel fuels. widespread regulation significantly restricting or prohibiting hydraulic fracturing or other drilling activity by our customers could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. further, we conduct drilling activities in numerous states, including oklahoma, where seismic activity may occur. in recent years, oklahoma has experienced an increase in earthquakes. although the extent of any correlation has been and remains the subject of studies of both federal and state agencies, some parties believe that there is a correlation between hydraulic fracturing related activities and the increased occurrence of seismic activity. as a result, federal and state legislatures and agencies may seek to further regulate, restrict or prohibit hydraulic fracturing activities. increased regulation and attention given to the hydraulic fracturing process could lead to greater opposition to oil and gas production activities using hydraulic fracturing techniques, operational delays or increased operating and compliance costs in the production of oil and natural gas from shale plays, added difficulty in performing hydraulic fracturing, and potentially a decline in the completion of new oil and gas wells, which could negatively impact the drilling programs of our customers and, consequently, delay, limit or reduce the services we provide. government policies, mandates, and regulations specifically affecting the energy sector and related industries, regulatory policies or matters that affect a variety of businesses, taxation polices, and political instability could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. energy production and trade flows are subject to government policies, mandates, regulations, and trade agreements. governmental policies affecting the energy industry, such as taxes, tariffs, duties, price controls, subsidies, incentives, foreign exchange rates, and import and export restrictions, can influence the viability and volume of production of certain commodities, the volume and types of imports and exports, whether unprocessed or processed commodity products are traded, and industry profitability. for example, the decision of the u.s. government to impose tariffs on certain chinese imports and the resulting retaliation by the chinese government imposing a 10 percent tariff on u.s. liquefied natural gas have disrupted aspects of the energy market. disruptions of this sort can affect the price of oil and natural gas and may cause our customers to change their plans for exploration and production levels, in turn reducing the demand for our services. future government policies may adversely affect the supply of, demand for, and prices of oil and 22 table of contents natural gas, restrict our ability to do business in existing and target markets, and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. our business, financial condition and results of operations could be affected by political instability and by changes in other governmental policies, mandates, regulations, and trade agreements, including monetary, fiscal and environmental policies, laws, regulations, acquisition approvals, and other activities of governments, agencies, and similar organizations. these risks include, but are not limited to, changes in a country or region economic or political conditions, local labor conditions and regulations, safety and environmental regulations, reduced protection of intellectual property rights, changes in the regulatory or legal environment, restrictions on currency exchange activities, currency exchange fluctuations, burdensome taxes and tariffs, enforceability of legal agreements and judgments, adverse tax, administrative agency or judicial outcomes, and regulation or taxation of greenhouse gases. international risks and uncertainties, including changing social and economic conditions as well as terrorism, political hostilities, and war, could limit our ability to transact business in these markets and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. legal claims and litigation could have a negative impact on our business. the nature of our business makes us susceptible to legal proceedings and governmental investigations from time to time. we design much of our own equipment and fabricate and upgrade such equipment in facilities that we operate. we also design and develop our own technology. if such equipment or technology fails to perform as expected, or if we fail to maintain or operate the equipment properly, there could be personal injuries, property damage, and environmental contamination, which could result in claims against us. in addition, during periods of depressed market conditions we may be subject to an increased risk of our customers, vendors, former employees and others initiating legal proceedings against us. lawsuits or claims against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. any litigation or claims, even if fully indemnified or insured, could negatively impact our reputation among our customers and the public, and make it more difficult for us to compete effectively or obtain adequate insurance in the future. reliance on management and competition for experienced personnel may negatively impact our operations or financial results. we greatly depend on the efforts of our executive officers and other key employees to manage our operations. the loss of members of management could have a material effect on our business. similarly, we utilize highly skilled personnel in operating and supporting our businesses. in times of high utilization, it can be difficult to retain, and in some cases find, qualified individuals, which may result in higher labor costs. during such periods, our labor costs could increase at a greater rate than our ability to raise prices for our services. additionally, during the recent period of sustained declines in oil and natural gas prices, there was a significant decline in the oil field services workforce. this has reduced the available skilled labor force available to the energy industry, which could also result in higher labor costs. an inability to obtain or find a sufficient number of qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the loss of one or a number of our large customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in fiscal year 2018, we received approximately 50 percent of our consolidated operating revenues from our ten largest contract drilling customers and approximately 24 percent of our consolidated operating revenues from our three largest customers (including their affiliates). if one or more of our larger customers terminated their contracts, failed to renew existing contracts with us, or refused to award us with new contracts, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. further, consolidation among oil and natural gas exploration and production companies may reduce the number of available customers. our current backlog of contract drilling revenue may continue to decline and may not be ultimately realized as fixed term contracts may, in certain instances, be terminated without an early termination payment. fixed term drilling contracts customarily provide for termination at the election of the customer, with an early termination payment to be paid to us if a contract is terminated prior to the expiration of the fixed term. however, under certain limited circumstances, such as destruction of a drilling rig, our bankruptcy, sustained unacceptable performance by us or delivery of a rig beyond certain grace and/or liquidated damage periods, no early termination payment would be 23 table of contents paid to us. even if an early termination payment is owed to us, a customer may be unable or may refuse to pay the early termination payment. we also may not be able to perform under these contracts due to events beyond our control, and our customers may seek to cancel or renegotiate our contracts for various reasons, such as depressed market conditions. as of september 30, 2018, our contract drilling backlog was approximately $1.1 billion for future revenues under firm commitments. our contract drilling backlog may decline over time as existing contract term coverage may not be offset by new term contracts or price modifications for existing contracts, as a result of any number of factors, such as low or declining oil prices and capital spending reductions by our customers. our inability or the inability of our customers to perform under our or their contractual obligations may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our contracts with national oil companies may expose us to greater risks than we normally assume in contracts with non-governmental customers. we currently own and operate rigs and have deployed technology under contracts with foreign national oil companies. in the future, we may expand our international land operations and enter into additional, significant contracts with national oil companies. the terms of these contracts may contain non-negotiable provisions and may expose us to greater commercial, political, operational and other risks than we assume in other contracts. foreign contracts may expose us to materially greater environmental liability and other claims for damages (including consequential damages) and personal injury related to our operations, or the risk that the contract may be terminated by our customer without cause on short-term notice, contractually or by governmental action, or under certain conditions that may not provide us with an early termination payment. we can provide no assurance that increased risk exposure will not have an adverse impact on our future operations or that we will not increase the number of rigs contracted, or the amount of technology deployed, to national oil companies with commensurate additional contractual risks. risks that accompany contracts with national oil companies could ultimately have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our contract drilling expense includes fixed costs that may not decline in proportion to decreases in rig utilization and dayrates. our contract drilling expense includes all direct and indirect costs associated with the operation, maintenance and support of our drilling equipment, which is often not affected by changes in dayrates and utilization. during periods of reduced revenue and/or activity, certain of our fixed costs (such as depreciation) may not decline and often we may incur additional costs. during times of reduced utilization, reductions in costs may not be immediate as we may incur additional costs associated with maintaining and cold stacking a rig, or we may not be able to fully reduce the cost of our support operations in a particular geographic region due to the need to support the remaining drilling rigs in that region. accordingly, a decline in revenue due to lower dayrates and/or utilization may not be offset by a corresponding decrease in contract drilling expense, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we depend on a limited number of vendors, some of which are thinly capitalized, and the loss of any of which could disrupt our operations. certain key rig components, parts and equipment are either purchased from or fabricated by a single or limited number of vendors, and we have no long term contracts with many of these vendors. shortages could occur in these essential components due to an interruption of supply, the acquisition of a vendor by a competitor, increased demands in the industry or other reasons beyond our control. similarly, certain key rig components, parts and equipment are obtained from vendors that are, in some cases, thinly capitalized, independent companies that generate significant portions of their business from us or from a small group of companies in the energy industry. these vendors may be disproportionately affected by any loss of business, downturn in the energy industry or reduction or unavailability of credit. if we are unable to procure certain of such rig components, parts or equipment, our ability to maintain, improve, upgrade or construct drilling rigs could be impaired, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. shortages of drilling equipment and supplies could adversely affect our operations. the contract drilling business is highly cyclical. during periods of increased demand for contract drilling services, delays in delivery and shortages of drilling equipment and supplies can occur. suppliers may experience quality control issues as they seek to rapidly increase production of equipment and supplies necessary for our operations. additionally, suppliers may seek to increase prices for equipment and supplies, which we are unable to pass through to 24 table of contents our customers, either due to contractual obligations or market constraints in the contract drilling business. these risks are intensified during periods when the industry experiences significant new drilling rig construction or refurbishment. any such delays or shortages could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. unionization efforts and labor regulations in certain countries in which we operate could materially increase our costs or limit our flexibility. certain of our international employees are unionized, and efforts may be made from time to time to unionize other portions of our workforce. we may in the future be subject to strikes or work stoppages and other labor disruptions in connection with unionization efforts or renegotiation of existing contracts with unions representing our international employees. additional unionization efforts, if successful, new collective bargaining agreements or work stoppages could materially increase our labor costs, reduce our revenues or limit our operational flexibility. we may be required to record impairment charges with respect to our drilling rigs and other assets. we evaluate our drilling rigs and other assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. lower utilization and dayrates adversely affect our revenues and profitability. prolonged periods of low utilization and dayrates may result in the recognition of impairment charges if future cash flow estimates, based upon information available to management at the time, indicate that the carrying value of an asset group may not be recoverable. drilling rigs in our fleet may become impaired in the future if market conditions deteriorate or if oil and gas prices decline further or remain low for a prolonged period. for example, in fiscal years 2018 and 2016, we recognized impairment charges of $17.5 million and $6.3 million, respectively, related to tangible assets and equipment. any impairment could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements. the facts and circumstances included in our impairment assessments are described in part ii, item 8 financial statements and supplementary data. we may have additional tax liabilities and/or be limited in our use of net operating losses and tax credits. we are subject to income taxes in the united states and numerous other jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. in the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. we are regularly audited by tax authorities. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different than what is reflected in income tax provisions and accruals. an audit or litigation could materially affect our financial position, income tax provision, net income, or cash flows in the period or periods challenged. tax rates in the various jurisdictions in which our subsidiaries are organized and conduct their operations may change significantly as a result of political or economic factors beyond our control. it is also possible that future changes to tax laws (including tax treaties in any of the jurisdictions that we operate in) could impact our ability to realize the tax savings recorded to date. our ability to benefit from our deferred tax assets depends on us having sufficient future taxable income to utilize our net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards before they expire. in addition, section 382 ( section 382 ) of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended (the code ), generally imposes an annual limitation on the amount of net operating losses and other pre-change tax attributes (such as tax credits) that may be used to offset taxable income by a corporation that has undergone an ownership change (as determined under section 382). an ownership change generally occurs if one or more shareholders (or groups of shareholders) that are each deemed to own at least 5 percent of our stock change their ownership by more than 50 percentage points over their lowest ownership percentage during a rolling three-year period. as of september 30, 2018, we have not experienced an ownership change and, therefore, our utilization of our net operating loss carryforwards was not subject to an annual limitation. however, if we were to experience ownership changes in the future as a result of subsequent shifts in our stock ownership, our ability to use our pre-change net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income may be subject to limitations, which could potentially result in increased future tax liability to us. furthermore, our acquisition of motive caused motive to undergo an ownership change and, as a result, the pre-change net operating losses of motive are subject to limitation under section 382; however, based on the amount of such net operating losses subject to the limitation, we do not expect that the application of the section 382 limitation will have a material impact on our overall future tax liabilities. in addition, at the state level, there may be periods during which the use of net operating loss carryforwards is suspended or otherwise limited, which could accelerate or permanently increase state taxes owed. in any case, our net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards are subject to review and potential disallowance upon audit by 25 table of contents the tax authorities of the jurisdictions where these tax attributes are incurred. additionally, our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in tax laws (including tax treaties) or their interpretation. on december 22, 2017, the president of the united states signed into law public law no. 115-97, a comprehensive tax reform bill commonly referred to as the tax cuts and jobs act (the tax reform act ) that significantly reforms the code. the tax reform act, among other things, (i) permanently reduces the u.s. corporate income tax rate, (ii) repeals the corporate alternative minimum tax, (iii) eliminates the deduction for certain domestic production activities, (iv) imposes new limitations on the utilization of net operating losses, (v) imposes new limitations on the deductibility of interest expense, (vi) imposes a type of minimum tax designed to reduce the benefits derived from intercompany transactions and payments that result in base erosion, and (vii) provides for more general changes to the taxation of corporations, including changes to cost recovery rules. these tax law changes could have the effect of causing us to incur income tax liability sooner than we otherwise would have incurred such liability or, in certain cases, could cause us to incur income tax liability that we might otherwise not have incurred, in the absence of these tax law changes. additionally, the tax reform act is complex and subject to interpretation. the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our current interpretation of the provisions contained in the tax reform act. in the future, the treasury department and the internal revenue service are expected to release regulations relating to and interpretive guidance of the legislation contained in the tax reform act. any significant variance of our current interpretation of such legislation from any future regulations or interpretive guidance could adversely affect our financial position, income tax provision, net income, or cash flows. we may reduce or suspend our dividend in the future. we have paid a quarterly dividend for many years. our most recent, quarterly dividend was $0.71 per share. in the future, our board of directors may, without advance notice, determine to reduce or suspend our dividend in order to maintain our financial flexibility and best position the company for long term success. the declaration and amount of future dividends is at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, prospects, industry conditions, capital requirements and other factors and restrictions our board of directors deems relevant. the likelihood that dividends will be reduced or suspended is increased during periods of prolonged market weakness. in addition, our ability to pay dividends may be limited by agreements governing our indebtedness now or in the future. there can be no assurance that we will not reduce our dividend or that we will continue to pay a dividend in the future. a downgrade in our credit ratings could negatively impact our cost of and ability to access capital. our ability to access capital markets or to otherwise obtain sufficient financing is enhanced by our senior unsecured debt ratings as provided by major u.s. credit rating agencies. factors that may impact our credit ratings include debt levels, liquidity, asset quality, cost structure, commodity pricing levels and other considerations. a ratings downgrade could adversely impact our ability in the future to access debt markets, increase the cost of future debt, and potentially require us to post letters of credit for certain obligations. our ability to access capital markets could be limited. from time to time, we may need to access capital markets to obtain financing. our ability to access capital markets for financing could be limited by, among other things, oil and gas prices, our existing capital structure, our credit ratings, the state of the economy, the health of the drilling and overall oil and gas industry, and the liquidity of the capital markets. many of the factors that affect our ability to access capital markets are outside of our control. no assurance can be given that we will be able to access capital markets on terms acceptable to us when required to do so, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our securities portfolio may lose significant value due to a decline in equity prices and other market related risks, thus impacting our debt ratio and financial strength. at september 30, 2018, we had a portfolio of securities with a total fair value of approximately $82.5 million, consisting of ensco plc ( ensco ) and schlumberger, ltd. the total fair value of the portfolio of securities was $70.2 million at september 30, 2017. the portfolio is recorded at fair value on the balance sheet with changes in unrealized after tax value reflected in the equity section of the balance sheet. however, where a decline in fair value below our cost basis is considered to be other than temporary, the change in value is recorded as a charge through earnings. during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2016, we determined that a loss was other than temporary and we recognized a $26.0 million 26 table of contents impairment charge. no impairment charges were recognized in fiscal year 2017 or 2018. at november 8, 2018, the fair value of the portfolio decreased to approximately $68.5 million. improvements in or new discoveries of alternative energy technologies could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. since our business depends on the level of activity in the oil and natural gas industry, any improvement in or new discoveries of alternative energy technologies that increase the use of alternative forms of energy and reduce the demand for oil and natural gas could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our business and results of operations may be adversely affected by foreign political, economic and social instability risks, foreign currency restrictions and devaluation, and various local laws associated with doing business in certain foreign countries. we currently have drilling operations in south america and the middle east. in the future, we may further expand the geographic reach of our operations. as a result, we are exposed to certain political, economic and other uncertainties not encountered in u.s. operations, including increased risks of social unrest, strikes, terrorism, war, kidnapping of employees, nationalization, forced negotiation or modification of contracts, difficulty resolving disputes (including technology disputes) and enforcing contract provisions, expropriation of equipment as well as expropriation of oil and gas exploration and drilling rights, taxation policies, foreign exchange restrictions and restrictions on repatriation of income and capital, currency rate fluctuations, increased governmental ownership and regulation of the economy and industry in the markets in which we operate, economic and financial instability of national oil companies, and restrictive governmental regulation, bureaucratic delays and general hazards associated with foreign sovereignty over certain areas in which operations are conducted. south american countries, in particular, have historically experienced uneven periods of economic growth, as well as recession, periods of high inflation and general economic and political instability. from time to time, these risks have impacted our business. for example, on june 30, 2010, the venezuelan government expropriated 11 rigs and associated real and personal property owned by our venezuelan subsidiary. prior thereto, we also experienced currency devaluation losses in venezuela and difficulty repatriating u.s. dollars to the united states. today, our contracts for work in foreign countries generally provide for payment in u.s. dollars. however, in argentina, while our dayrate is denominated in u.s. dollars, we are paid in argentine pesos. the argentine branch of one of our second-tier subsidiaries then remits u.s. dollars to its u.s. parent by converting the argentine pesos into u.s. dollars through the argentine foreign exchange market and repatriating the u.s. dollars. argentina also has a history of implementing currency controls, which restrict the conversion and repatriation of u.s. dollars. these controls were not in place during this past fiscal year. argentina economy is currently considered highly inflationary, which is defined as cumulative inflation rates exceeding 100 percent in the most recent three-year period based on inflation data published by the respective governments. nonetheless, all of our foreign operations use the u.s. dollar as the functional currency and local currency monetary assets and liabilities are remeasured into u.s. dollars with gains and losses resulting from foreign currency transactions included in current results of operations. for fiscal year 2018, we experienced aggregate foreign currency losses of $3.6 million in argentina. our aggregate foreign currency losses for fiscal year 2018 and 2017 were $4.0 million and $7.1 million, respectively. however, in the future, we may incur larger currency devaluations, foreign exchange restrictions or other difficulties repatriating u.s. dollars from argentina or elsewhere, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. additionally, there can be no assurance that there will not be changes in local laws, regulations and administrative requirements or the interpretation thereof, which could have a material adverse effect on the profitability of our operations or on our ability to continue operations in certain areas. because of the impact of local laws, our future operations in certain areas may be conducted through entities in which local citizens own interests and through entities (including joint ventures) in which we have limited control or hold only a minority interest or pursuant to arrangements under which we conduct operations under contract to local entities. while we believe that neither operating through such entities nor pursuant to such arrangements would have a material adverse effect on our operations or revenues, there can 27 table of contents be no assurance that we will in all cases be able to structure or restructure our operations to conform to local law (or the administration thereof) on terms we find acceptable. during fiscal year 2018, approximately 9.6 percent of our consolidated operating revenues were generated from the international contract drilling business and approximately 96.0 percent of the international operating revenues were from operations in south america. substantially all of the south american operating revenues were from argentina and colombia. the future occurrence of one or more international events arising from the types of risks described above could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. failure to comply with or changes to governmental and environmental laws could adversely affect our business. many aspects of our operations are subject to various laws and regulations in the jurisdictions where we operate, including those relating to drilling practices and comprehensive and frequently changing laws and regulations relating to the safety and to the protection of human health and the environment. environmental laws apply to the oil and gas industry including those regulating air emissions, discharges to water, and the transport, storage, use, treatment, disposal and remediation of, and exposure to, solid and hazardous wastes and materials. these laws can have a material adverse effect on the drilling industry, including our operations, and compliance with such laws may require us to make significant capital expenditures, such as the installation of costly equipment or operational changes, and may affect the resale values or useful lives of our drilling rigs. if we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we could be exposed to substantial administrative, civil and criminal penalties, delays in permitting or performance of projects and, in some cases, injunctive relief. violations of environmental laws may also result in liabilities for personal injuries, property and natural resource damage and other costs and claims. in addition, environmental laws and regulations in the united states impose a variety of requirements on responsible parties related to the prevention of oil spills and liability for damages from such spills. as an owner and operator of drilling rigs, we may be deemed to be a responsible party under these laws and regulations. additional legislation or regulation and changes to existing legislation and regulation may reasonably be anticipated, and the effect thereof on our operations cannot be predicted. the expansion of the scope of laws or regulations protecting the environment has accelerated in recent years, particularly outside the united states, and we expect this trend to continue. to the extent new laws are enacted or other governmental actions are taken that prohibit or restrict drilling in areas where we operate or impose additional environmental protection requirements that result in increased costs to the oil and gas industry, in general, or the drilling industry, in particular, our business or prospects could be materially adversely affected. we may not be able to generate cash to service all of our indebtedness, and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations. our ability to make future scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations, including any future debt obligations, depends on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. we may not be able to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal and interest on our indebtedness. if our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investment decisions and capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. furthermore, these alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial position at such time. any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. any failure to make payments of interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness on a timely basis would be a default (if not waived) and would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. covenants in our debt agreements restrict our ability to engage in certain activities. our current debt agreements pertaining to certain long term unsecured debt and our unsecured revolving credit facility contain, and our future financing arrangements likely will contain, various covenants that may in certain instances restrict our ability to, among other things, incur, assume or guarantee additional indebtedness, incur liens, sell or otherwise dispose of assets, enter into new lines of business, and merge or consolidate. in addition, our credit facility requires us to maintain a funded leverage ratio (as defined therein) of less than 50 percent and certain priority debt (as 28 table of contents defined therein) may not exceed 17.5 percent of our net worth (as defined therein). such restrictions may limit our ability to successfully execute our business plans, which may have adverse consequences on our operations. certain provisions of our corporate governing documents could make an acquisition of our company more difficult. the following provisions of our charter documents, as currently in effect, and delaware law could discourage potential proposals to acquire us, delay or prevent a change in control of us or limit the price that investors may be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock: our certificate of incorporation permits our board of directors to issue and set the terms of preferred stock and to adopt amendments to our bylaws; our bylaws contain restrictions regarding the right of stockholders to nominate directors and to submit proposals to be considered at stockholder meetings; our bylaws restrict the right of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders; and we are subject to provisions of delaware law which restrict us from engaging in any of a broad range of business transactions with an interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date such stockholder became classified as an interested stockholder. 29 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 52 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk foreign currency exchange rate risk our drilling contracts in foreign countries generally provide for payment in u.s. dollars. however, in argentina, while the contract is denominated in the u.s. dollar, we are paid in argentine pesos. the argentine branch of one of our second tier subsidiaries then converts the argentine pesos to u.s. dollars through the argentine foreign exchange market and then remits the dollars to its u.s. parent. in the future, other contracts or applicable law may require payments to be made in foreign currencies. as such, there can be no assurance that we will not experience in argentina or elsewhere a devaluation of foreign currency, foreign exchange restrictions or other difficulties repatriating u.s. dollars even if we are able to negotiate the contract provisions designed to mitigate such risks. in the future, we may incur currency devaluations, foreign exchange restrictions or other difficulties repatriating u.s. dollars in argentina or elsewhere, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. at september 30, 2018, a hypothetical decrease in value of 10 percent would result in an insignificant decrease in value of our monetary assets and liabilities denominated in argentine pesos by approximately $4,595. argentina economy is currently considered highly inflationary, which is defined as cumulative inflation rates exceeding 100 percent in the most recent three year period based on inflation data published by the respective governments. nonetheless, all of our foreign operations use the u.s. dollar as the functional currency and local currency monetary assets and liabilities are remeasured into u.s. dollars with gains and losses resulting from foreign currency transactions included in current results of operations. commodity price risk the demand for contract drilling services is derived from exploration and production companies spending money to explore and develop drilling prospects in search of crude oil and natural gas. their spending is driven by their cash flow and financial strength, which is affected by trends in crude oil and natural gas commodity prices. crude oil prices are determined by a number of factors including global supply and demand, the establishment of and compliance with production quotas by oil exporting countries, worldwide economic conditions and geopolitical factors. crude oil and natural gas prices have historically been volatile and very difficult to predict with any degree of certainty. while current energy prices are important contributors to positive cash flow for customers, expectations about future prices and price volatility are generally more important for determining future spending levels. this volatility can lead many exploration and production companies to base their capital spending on much more conservative estimates of commodity prices. as a result, demand for contract drilling services is not always purely a function of the movement of commodity prices. credit and capital market risk customers may finance their exploration activities through cash flow from operations, the incurrence of debt or the issuance of equity. any deterioration in the credit and capital markets, as experienced in the past, can make it difficult for customers to obtain funding for their capital needs. a reduction of cash flow resulting from declines in commodity prices or a reduction of available financing may result in customer credit defaults or reduced demand for our services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. similarly, we may need to access capital markets to obtain financing. our ability to access capital markets for financing could be limited by, among other things, oil and gas prices, our existing capital structure, our credit ratings, the state of the economy, the health of the drilling and overall oil and gas industry, and the liquidity of the capital markets. many of the factors that affect our ability to access capital markets are outside of our control. no assurance can be given that we will be able to access capital markets on terms acceptable to us when required to do so, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. further, we attempt to secure favorable prices through advanced ordering and purchasing for drilling rig components. while these materials have generally been available at acceptable prices, there is no assurance the prices will not vary significantly in the future. any fluctuations in market conditions causing increased prices in materials and supplies could have a material adverse effect on future operating costs. interest rate risk our interest rate risk exposure results primarily from short term rates, mainly libor based, on any borrowings from our revolving credit facility. there were no outstanding borrowings under this facility at september 30, 2018, and our 52 table of contents outstanding debt consisted of $500 million in a senior unsecured note, which has a fixed rate of 4.65 percent. at september 30, 2018, the average interest rate risk on our fixed-rate debt of $500 million was estimated to be 4.65 percent after 2023. comparatively, we estimated our interest rate risk at september 30, 2017 to be 4.65 percent after 2022. the fair value of the fixed-rate debt was estimated to be $509.3 million and $529.0 million for fiscal years 2018 and 2017, respectively. equity price risk on september 30, 2018, we had a portfolio of securities with a total fair value of $82.5 million. the total fair value of the portfolio of securities was $70.2 million at september 30, 2017. a hypothetical 10 percent decrease in the market prices for all securities in our portfolio as of september 30, 2018 would decrease the fair value of our available for sale securities by $8.3 million. we make no specific plans to sell securities, but rather sell securities based on market conditions and other circumstances. these securities are subject to a wide variety and number of market related risks that could substantially reduce or increase the fair value of our holdings. the portfolio is recorded at fair value on the balance sheet with changes in unrealized after tax value reflected in the equity section of the balance sheet unless a decline in fair value below our cost basis is considered to be other than temporary in which case the change is recorded through earnings. at november 8, 2018, the total fair value of our securities decreased to approximately $68.5 million. currently, the fair value exceeds the cost of the investments. we continually monitor the fair value of the investments but are unable to predict future market volatility and any potential impact to the consolidated financial statements. 53 table of contents