risk factors 24 risk factors if any of the events discussed in the following risk factors were to occur, our business, financial position, results of operations, cash flows or prospects could be materially, adversely affected. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known, or currently deemed immaterial, may also constrain our business and operations. our substantial leverage could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry, expose us to interest rate risk to the extent of our variable rate debt and prevent us from meeting our obligations. we are highly leveraged. as of december 31, 2009, our total indebtedness was $25.670 billion. our high degree of leverage could have important consequences, including: increasing our vulnerability to downturns or adverse changes in general economic, industry or competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulations; requiring a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, therefore reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities; exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our unhedged borrowings are at variable rates of interest; 24 table of contents limiting our ability to make strategic acquisitions or causing us to make nonstrategic divestitures; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product or service line development, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who are less highly leveraged. we and our subsidiaries have the ability to incur additional indebtedness in the future, subject to the restrictions contained in our senior secured credit facilities and the indentures governing our outstanding notes. if new indebtedness is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could intensify. we may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may not be able to refinance our indebtedness on favorable terms. if we are unable to do so, we may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. we cannot assure you we will maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. as of december 31, 2009, our substantial indebtedness included $9.702 billion of indebtedness under our senior secured credit facilities maturing in 2012 and 2013, $2.750 billion aggregate principal amount of first lien notes maturing in 2019 and 2020, $6.088 billion aggregate principal amount of second lien notes maturing in 2014, 2016 and 2017 and $6.856 billion aggregate principal amount of unsecured senior notes and debentures that mature on various dates from 2010 to 2095 (including $5.454 billion maturing through 2016). because a significant portion of our indebtedness matures in the next few years, we may find it necessary or prudent to refinance that indebtedness with longer-maturity debt at a higher interest rate. in february, april and august of 2009, for example, we issued $310 million in aggregate principal amount of 9 7 / 8 % second lien notes due 2017, $1.500 billion in aggregate principal amount of 8 1 / 2 % first lien notes due 2019 and $1.250 billion in aggregate principal amount of 7 7 / 8 % first lien notes due 2020, respectively. we used the net proceeds of those offerings to prepay term loans under our cash flow credit facility, which currently bears interest at a lower floating rate. our ability to refinance our indebtedness on favorable terms, or at all, is directly affected by the current global economic and financial conditions. in addition, our ability to incur secured indebtedness (which would generally enable us to achieve better pricing than the incurrence of unsecured indebtedness) depends in part on the value of our assets, which depends, in turn, on the strength of our cash flows and results of operations, and on economic and market conditions and other factors. if our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations or we are unable to refinance our indebtedness, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure our indebtedness. these alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. if our operating results and available cash are insufficient to meet our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. we may not be able to consummate those dispositions, or the proceeds from the dispositions may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. our debt agreements contain restrictions that limit our flexibility in operating our business. our senior secured credit facilities and the indentures governing our outstanding notes contain various covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions. these covenants limit our and certain of our subsidiaries ability to, among other things: incur additional indebtedness or issue certain preferred shares; 25 table of contents pay dividends on, repurchase or make distributions in respect of our capital stock or make other restricted payments; make certain investments; sell or transfer assets; create liens; consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and enter into certain transactions with our affiliates. under our asset-based revolving credit facility, when (and for as long as) the combined availability under our asset-based revolving credit facility and our senior secured revolving credit facility is less than a specified amount for a certain period of time or, if a payment or bankruptcy event of default has occurred and is continuing, funds deposited into any of our depository accounts will be transferred on a daily basis into a blocked account with the administrative agent and applied to prepay loans under the asset-based revolving credit facility and to cash collateralize letters of credit issued thereunder. under our senior secured credit facilities, we are required to satisfy and maintain specified financial ratios. our ability to meet those financial ratios can be affected by events beyond our control, and there can be no assurance we will continue to meet those ratios. a breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under both our cash flow credit facility and our asset-based revolving credit facility. upon the occurrence of an event of default under our senior secured credit facilities, our lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under our senior secured credit facilities to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. if we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under our senior secured credit facilities could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure such indebtedness. we have pledged a significant portion of our assets as collateral under our senior secured credit facilities, and that collateral (other than certain european collateral securing our senior secured european term loan facility) is also pledged as collateral under our outstanding notes. if any of the lenders under our senior secured credit facilities accelerate the repayment of borrowings, there can be no assurance we will have sufficient assets to repay our senior secured credit facilities or our outstanding notes. our hospitals face competition for patients from other hospitals and health care providers. the health care business is highly competitive, and competition among hospitals and other health care providers for patients has intensified in recent years. generally, other hospitals in the local communities we serve provide services similar to those offered by our hospitals. in addition, cms publicizes on a website performance data related to quality measures and data on patient satisfaction surveys hospitals submit in connection with their medicare reimbursement. federal law provides for the future expansion of the number of quality measures that must be reported. additional quality measures and future trends toward clinical transparency may have an unanticipated impact on our competitive position and patient volumes. if any of our hospitals achieve poor results (or results that are lower than our competitors) on these quality measures or on patient satisfaction surveys, patient volumes could decline. in addition, the number of freestanding specialty hospitals, surgery centers and diagnostic and imaging centers in the geographic areas in which we operate has increased significantly. as a result, most of our hospitals operate in a highly competitive environment. some of the facilities that compete with our hospitals are owned by governmental agencies or not-for-profit corporations supported by endowments, charitable contributions and/or tax revenues and can finance capital expenditures and operations on a tax-exempt basis. our hospitals are facing increasing competition from physician-owned specialty hospitals and from both our own and unaffiliated freestanding surgery centers for market share in high margin services and for quality physicians and personnel. if ambulatory surgery centers are better able to compete in this environment than our hospitals, our hospitals may experience a decline in patient volume, and we may experience a decrease in margin, even if those patients use our ambulatory surgery centers. in states that do not require a con for the purchase, construction or expansion of health care facilities or services, competition in the form of new services, facilities and capital spending is more prevalent. 26 table of contents further, if our competitors are better able to attract patients, recruit physicians, expand services or obtain favorable managed care contracts at their facilities than our hospitals and ambulatory surgery centers, we may experience an overall decline in patient volume. see item 1, business competition. the growth of uninsured and patient due accounts and a deterioration in the collectibility of these accounts could adversely affect our results of operations. the primary collection risks of our accounts receivable relate to the uninsured patient accounts and patient accounts for which the primary insurance carrier has paid the amounts covered by the applicable agreement, but patient responsibility amounts (deductibles and copayments) remain outstanding. the provision for doubtful accounts relates primarily to amounts due directly from patients. the amount of the provision for doubtful accounts is based upon management assessment of historical writeoffs and expected net collections, business and economic conditions, trends in federal and state governmental and private employer health care coverage, the rate of growth in uninsured patient admissions and other collection indicators. due to a number of factors, including the recent economic downturn and increase in unemployment, we believe our facilities may experience growth in bad debts, uninsured discounts and charity care. at december 31, 2009, our allowance for doubtful accounts represented approximately 94% of the $5.176 billion patient due accounts receivable balance. the sum of the provision for doubtful accounts, uninsured discounts and charity care increased from $6.134 billion for 2007, to $7.009 billion for 2008 and to $8.362 billion for 2009. a continuation of the trends that have resulted in an increasing proportion of accounts receivable being comprised of uninsured accounts and a deterioration in the collectibility of these accounts will adversely affect our collection of accounts receivable, cash flows and results of operations. health care reform and changes in governmental programs may reduce our revenues. national health care reform remains a focus at the federal level. in the final months of 2009, both houses of the u.s. congress passed separate bills intended to reform the health care system through, among other things, decreasing the number of uninsured individuals and reducing health care costs. while neither of these bills has yet become law, such laws or similar proposals have been, and we anticipate will continue to be, a focus at the federal level. several states are also considering health care reform measures. federal or state health care reform could adversely affect our business and results of operations. the focus on health care reform may also increase the likelihood of significant changes affecting existing government health care programs. a significant portion of our patient volumes is derived from government health care programs, principally medicare and medicaid, which are highly regulated and subject to frequent and substantial changes. we derived approximately 60% of our admissions from the medicare and medicaid programs in 2009. in recent years, legislative and regulatory changes have resulted in limitations on and, in some cases, reductions in levels of payments to health care providers for certain services under these government programs. possible future changes in the medicare, medicaid, and other state programs may reduce reimbursements to health care providers and insurers and may also increase our operating costs, which could reduce our profitability. effective january 1, 2008, cms increased asc payment groups from nine clinically disparate payment groups to an extensive list of covered surgical procedures among the apcs used under the outpatient pps for these surgical services. cms established a four-year transition period for implementing the revised payment rates and significantly expanded the number of procedures that medicare reimburses if performed in an asc. cms also limited asc reimbursement for procedures commonly performed in physicians offices. more medicare procedures now performed in hospitals, such as ours, may be moved to ascs, reducing surgical volume in our hospitals. also, more medicare procedures now performed in ascs, such as ours, may be moved to physicians offices. commercial third-party payers may adopt similar policies. cms has recently completed a two-year transition to full implementation of the ms-drgs system, which represents a refinement to the existing ms-drg system. realignments in the drg system could impact the margins we receive for certain services. for federal fiscal year 2010, cms has provided a 2.1% market basket update for hospitals that submit certain quality patient care indicators and a 0.1% update for hospitals that do not 27 table of contents submit this data. while we will endeavor to comply with all quality data submission requirements, our submissions may not be deemed timely or sufficient to entitle us to the full market basket adjustment for all of our hospitals. medicare payments to hospitals in federal fiscal years 2008 and 2009 were reduced to eliminate what cms estimated to be the effect of coding or classifications changes as a result of hospitals implementing the ms-drg system. if cms retrospectively determines the adjustment levels for federal fiscal years 2008 and 2009 were inadequate, cms may impose additional adjustments in future years. although cms has not imposed an adjustment for federal fiscal year 2010, cms has announced its intent to impose payment adjustments in federal fiscal years 2011 and 2012 because of what cms has determined to be an inadequate adjustment in federal fiscal year 2008. additionally, medicare payments to hospitals are subject to a number of other adjustments, and the actual impact on payments to specific hospitals may vary. in some cases, commercial third-party payers and other payers such as some state medicaid programs rely on all or portions of the medicare ms-drg system to determine payment rates, and adjustments that negatively impact medicare payments may also negatively impact payments from those payers. since most states must operate with balanced budgets and since the medicaid program is often the state largest program, states can be expected to adopt or consider adopting legislation designed to reduce their medicaid expenditures. the current economic downturn has increased the budgetary pressures on most states, and these budgetary pressures have resulted, and likely will continue to result, in decreased spending for medicaid programs in many states. further, many states have also adopted, or are considering, legislation designed to reduce coverage and program eligibility, enroll medicaid recipients in managed care programs and/or impose additional taxes on hospitals to help finance or expand the states medicaid systems. on may 1, 2009, the department of defense implemented a prospective payment system for hospital outpatient services furnished to tricare beneficiaries similar to that utilized for services furnished to medicare beneficiaries. because the medicare outpatient prospective payment system apc rates have historically been below tricare rates, the adoption of this payment methodology for tricare beneficiaries reduces our reimbursement; however, tricare outpatient services do not represent a significant portion of our patient volumes. changes in laws or regulations regarding government health programs or other changes in the administration of government health programs could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. if we are unable to retain and negotiate favorable contracts with nongovernment payers, including managed care plans, our revenues may be reduced. our ability to obtain favorable contracts with nongovernment payers, including health maintenance organizations, preferred provider organizations and other managed care plans significantly affects the revenues and operating results of our facilities. revenues derived from these entities and other insurers accounted for 52% and 53% of our patient revenues for the years ended december 31, 2009 and december 31, 2008, respectively. nongovernment payers, including managed care payers, continue to demand discounted fee structures, and the trend toward consolidation among nongovernment payers tends to increase their bargaining power over fee structures. our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to retain and renew our managed care contracts and enter into new managed care contracts on terms favorable to us. other health care providers may impact our ability to enter into managed care contracts or negotiate increases in our reimbursement and other favorable terms and conditions. for example, some of our competitors may negotiate exclusivity provisions with managed care plans or otherwise restrict the ability of managed care companies to contract with us. if we are unable to retain and negotiate favorable contracts with managed care plans or experience reductions in payment increases or amounts received from nongovernment payers, our revenues may be reduced. our performance depends on our ability to recruit and retain quality physicians. the success of our hospitals depends in part on the number and quality of the physicians on the medical staffs of our hospitals, the admitting practices of those physicians and maintaining good relations with those physicians. although we employ some physicians, physicians are often not employees of the hospitals at which they practice and, in many of the markets we serve, most physicians have admitting privileges at other hospitals in addition to our hospitals. such physicians may terminate their affiliation with our hospitals at any time. if we are unable to provide 28 table of contents adequate support personnel or technologically advanced equipment and hospital facilities that meet the needs of those physicians, they may be discouraged from referring patients to our facilities, admissions may decrease and our operating performance may decline. our hospitals face competition for staffing, which may increase labor costs and reduce profitability. our operations are dependent on the efforts, abilities and experience of our management and medical support personnel, such as nurses, pharmacists and lab technicians, as well as our physicians. we compete with other health care providers in recruiting and retaining qualified management and support personnel responsible for the daily operations of each of our hospitals, including nurses and other nonphysician health care professionals. in some markets, the availability of nurses and other medical support personnel has been a significant operating issue to health care providers. we may be required to continue to enhance wages and benefits to recruit and retain nurses and other medical support personnel or to hire more expensive temporary or contract personnel. as a result, our labor costs could increase. we also depend on the available labor pool of semi-skilled and unskilled employees in each of the markets in which we operate. certain proposed changes in federal labor laws, including the employee free choice act, could increase the likelihood of employee unionization attempts. to the extent a significant portion of our employee base unionizes, it is possible our labor costs could increase materially. in addition, the states in which we operate could adopt mandatory nurse-staffing ratios or could reduce mandatory nurse staffing ratios already in place. state-mandated nurse-staffing ratios could significantly affect labor costs and have an adverse impact on revenue if we are required to limit admissions in order to meet the required ratios. if our labor costs increase, we may not be able to raise rates to offset these increased costs. because a significant percentage of our revenues consists of fixed, prospective payments, our ability to pass along increased labor costs is constrained. our failure to recruit and retain qualified management, nurses and other medical support personnel, or to control labor costs, could have a material, adverse effect on our results of operations. if we fail to comply with extensive laws and government regulations, we could suffer penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations. the health care industry is required to comply with extensive and complex laws and regulations at the federal, state and local government levels relating to, among other things: billing and coding for services; relationships with physicians and other referral sources; adequacy of medical care; quality of medical equipment and services; qualifications of medical and support personnel; confidentiality, maintenance, data breach, identity theft and security issues associated with health-related and personal information and medical records; the screening, stabilization and transfer of individuals who have emergency medical conditions; licensure and certification; hospital rate or budget review; preparing and filing of cost reports; operating policies and procedures; and addition of facilities and services. among these laws are the federal anti-kickback statute, the federal physician self-referral law (commonly called the stark law), the fca and similar state laws. we have a variety of financial relationships with physicians and others who either refer or influence the referral of patients to our hospitals and other health care facilities, and these laws govern those relationships. the oig has enacted safe harbor regulations that outline practices deemed 29 table of contents protected from prosecution under the anti-kickback statute. while we endeavor to comply with the applicable safe harbors, certain of our current arrangements, including joint ventures and financial relationships with physicians and other referral sources and persons and entities to which we refer patients, do not qualify for safe harbor protection. failure to qualify for a safe harbor does not mean the arrangement necessarily violates the anti-kickback statute, but may subject the arrangement to greater scrutiny. however, we cannot offer assurance that practices outside of a safe harbor will not be found to violate the anti-kickback statute. allegations of violations of the anti-kickback statute may be brought under the federal civil monetary penalty law, which requires a lower burden of proof than other fraud and abuse laws, including the anti-kickback statute. our financial relationships with referring physicians and their immediate family members must comply with the stark law by meeting an exception. we attempt to structure our relationships to meet an exception to the stark law, but the regulations implementing the exceptions are detailed and complex, and we cannot provide assurance every relationship complies fully with the stark law. unlike the anti-kickback statute, failure to meet an exception under the stark law results in a violation of the stark law, even if such violation is technical in nature. additionally, if we violate the anti-kickback statute or stark law, or if we improperly bill for our services, we may be found to violate the fca, either under a suit brought by the government or by a private person under a qui tam , or whistleblower, suit. if we fail to comply with the anti-kickback statute, the stark law, the fca or other applicable laws and regulations, we could be subjected to liabilities, including civil penalties (including the loss of our licenses to operate one or more facilities), exclusion of one or more facilities from participation in the medicare, medicaid and other federal and state health care programs and, for violations of certain laws and regulations, criminal penalties. see regulation. cms published a proposal to collect information from 400 hospitals regarding their ownership, investment and compensation arrangements with physicians. called the disclosure of financial relationships report (or dfrr ), cms intends to use this data to monitor compliance with the stark law, and cms may share this information with other government agencies. many of these agencies have not previously analyzed this information and have the authority to bring enforcement actions against hospitals filing such reports. the dfrr and its supporting documentation are currently under review by the office of management and budget, and it is unclear when, or if, it will be finalized. because many of these laws and their implementing regulations are relatively new, we do not always have the benefit of significant regulatory or judicial interpretation of these laws and regulations. in the future, different interpretations or enforcement of these laws and regulations could subject our current or past practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality or could require us to make changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel, services, capital expenditure programs and operating expenses. a determination we have violated these laws, or the public announcement that we are being investigated for possible violations of these laws, could have a material, adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects, and our business reputation could suffer significantly. in addition, other legislation or regulations at the federal or state level may be adopted that adversely affect our business. we have been and could be the subject of governmental investigations, claims and litigation. health care companies are subject to numerous investigations by various governmental agencies. further, under the federal fca, private parties have the right to bring qui tam , or whistleblower, suits against companies that submit false claims for payments to, or improperly retain overpayments from, the government. some states have adopted similar state whistleblower and false claims provisions. certain of our individual facilities have received, and other facilities may receive, government inquiries from federal and state agencies. depending on whether the underlying conduct in these or future inquiries or investigations could be considered systemic, their resolution could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. governmental agencies and their agents, such as the medicare administrative contractors, fiscal intermediaries and carriers, as well as the oig, cms and state medicaid programs, conduct audits of our health care operations. private payers may conduct similar post-payment audits, and we also perform internal audits and 30 table of contents monitoring. depending on the nature of the conduct found in such audits and whether the underlying conduct could be considered systemic, the resolution of these audits could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. the mma established the rac three-year demonstration program to conduct post-payment reviews to detect and correct improper payments in the fee-for-service medicare program. the tax relief and health care act of 2006 made the rac program permanent and mandated its nationwide expansion by 2010. cms has awarded contracts to four racs that are implementing the permanent rac program on a nationwide basis. in addition, cms employs mics to perform post-payment audits of medicaid claims and identify overpayments. throughout 2010, mic audits will continue to expand. in addition to mics, several other contractors, including the state medicaid agencies, have increased their review activities. should we be found out of compliance with any of these laws, regulations or programs, depending on the nature of the findings, our business, our financial position and our results of operations could be negatively impacted. controls designed to reduce inpatient services may reduce our revenues. controls imposed by medicare, managed medicare, medicaid, managed medicaid and commercial third-party payers designed to reduce admissions and lengths of stay, commonly referred to as utilization review, have affected and are expected to continue to affect our facilities. utilization review entails the review of the admission and course of treatment of a patient by health plans. inpatient utilization, average lengths of stay and occupancy rates continue to be negatively affected by payer-required preadmission authorization and utilization review and by payer pressure to maximize outpatient and alternative health care delivery services for less acutely ill patients. efforts to impose more stringent cost controls are expected to continue. although we are unable to predict the effect these changes will have on our operations, significant limits on the scope of services reimbursed and on reimbursement rates and fees could have a material, adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. our overall business results may suffer from the recent economic downturn. the united states economy has weakened significantly. depressed consumer spending and higher unemployment rates continue to pressure many industries. during economic downturns, governmental entities often experience budget deficits as a result of increased costs and lower than expected tax collections. these budget deficits may force federal, state and local government entities to decrease spending for health and human service programs, including medicare, medicaid and similar programs, which represent significant payer sources for our hospitals. other risks we face from general economic weakness include potential declines in the population covered under managed care agreements, patient decisions to postpone or cancel elective and non-emergency health care procedures, potential increases in the uninsured and underinsured populations and further difficulties in our collecting patient co-payment and deductible receivables. the industry trend towards value-based purchasing may negatively impact our revenues. there is a trend in the health care industry toward value-based purchasing of health care services. these value-based purchasing programs include both public reporting of quality data and preventable adverse events tied to the quality and efficiency of care provided by facilities. governmental programs including medicare and medicaid require hospitals to report certain quality data to receive full reimbursement updates. in addition, medicare does not reimburse for care related to certain preventable adverse events (also called never events ). many large commercial payers currently require hospitals to report quality data, and several commercial payers do not reimburse hospitals for certain preventable adverse events. further, we have implemented a policy pursuant to which we do not bill patients or third-party payers for fees or expenses incurred due to certain preventable adverse events. we expect value-based purchasing programs, including programs that condition reimbursement on patient outcome measures, to become more common and to involve a higher percentage of reimbursement amounts. we are unable at this time to predict how this trend will affect our results of operations, but it could negatively impact our revenues. 31 table of contents our operations could be impaired by a failure of our information systems. any system failure that causes an interruption in service or availability of our systems could adversely affect operations or delay the collection of revenues. even though we have implemented network security measures, our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering. the occurrence of any of these events could result in interruptions, delays, the loss or corruption of data, or cessations in the availability of systems, all of which could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations and harm our business reputation. the performance of our information technology and systems is critical to our business operations. in addition to our shared services initiatives, our information systems are essential to a number of critical areas of our operations, including: accounting and financial reporting; billing and collecting accounts; coding and compliance; clinical systems; medical records and document storage; inventory management; negotiating, pricing and administering managed care contracts and supply contracts; and monitoring quality of care and collecting data on quality measures necessary for full medicare payment updates. if we fail to effectively and timely implement electronic health record systems, our operations could be adversely affected. as required by arra, hhs is in the process of developing and implementing an incentive payment program for eligible hospitals and health care professionals that adopt and meaningfully use certified electronic health record ( ehr ) technology. if our hospitals and employed professionals are unable to meet the requirements for participation in the incentive payment program, we will not be eligible to receive incentive payments that could offset some of the costs of implementing ehr systems. further, beginning in 2015, eligible hospitals and professionals that fail to demonstrate meaningful use of certified ehr technology will be subject to reduced payments from medicare. failure to implement ehr systems effectively and in a timely manner could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. state efforts to regulate the construction or expansion of health care facilities could impair our ability to operate and expand our operations. some states, particularly in the eastern part of the country, require health care providers to obtain prior approval, known as a con, for the purchase, construction or expansion of health care facilities, to make certain capital expenditures or to make changes in services or bed capacity. in giving approval, these states consider the need for additional or expanded health care facilities or services. we currently operate health care facilities in a number of states with con laws. the failure to obtain any requested con could impair our ability to operate or expand operations. any such failure could, in turn, adversely affect our ability to attract patients to our facilities and grow our revenues, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. our facilities are heavily concentrated in florida and texas, which makes us sensitive to regulatory, economic, environmental and competitive conditions and changes in those states. we operated 163 hospitals at december 31, 2009, and 73 of those hospitals are located in florida and texas. our florida and texas facilities combined revenues represented approximately 51% of our consolidated revenues for the year ended december 31, 2009. this concentration makes us particularly sensitive to regulatory, economic, 32 table of contents environmental and competitive conditions and changes in those states. any material change in the current payment programs or regulatory, economic, environmental or competitive conditions in those states could have a disproportionate effect on our overall business results. in addition, our hospitals in florida and texas and other areas across the gulf coast are located in hurricane-prone areas. in the recent past, hurricanes have had a disruptive effect on the operations of our hospitals in florida, texas and other coastal states, and the patient populations in those states. our business activities could be harmed by a particularly active hurricane season or even a single storm, and the property insurance we obtain may not be adequate to cover losses from future hurricanes or other natural disasters. we may be subject to liabilities from claims by the internal revenue service. at december 31, 2009, we were contesting before the appeals division of the internal revenue service ( irs ) certain claimed deficiencies and adjustments proposed by the irs in connection with its examination of the 2003 and 2004 federal income tax returns for hca and eight affiliates that are treated as partnerships for federal income tax purposes ( affiliated partnerships ). the disputed items include the timing of recognition of certain patient service revenues and our method for calculating the tax allowance for doubtful accounts. six taxable periods of hca and its predecessors ended in 1997 through 2002 and the 2002 taxable year of four affiliated partnerships, for which the primary remaining issue is the computation of the tax allowance for doubtful accounts, are pending before the irs examination division as of december 31, 2009. the irs began an audit of the 2005 and 2006 federal income tax returns for hca and seven affiliated partnerships during 2008. we anticipate the irs examination division will conclude its audit in 2010. during 2009, the seven affiliated partnership audits were resolved with no material impact on our operations or financial position. we anticipate the irs will begin an audit of the 2007 and 2008 federal income tax returns for hca during 2010. management believes hca, its predecessors and affiliates properly reported taxable income and paid taxes in accordance with applicable laws and agreements established with the irs and final resolution of these disputes will not have a material, adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. however, if payments due upon final resolution of these issues exceed our recorded estimates, such resolutions could have a material, adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. we may be subject to liabilities from claims brought against our facilities. we are subject to litigation relating to our business practices, including claims and legal actions by patients and others in the ordinary course of business alleging malpractice, product liability or other legal theories. see item 3, legal proceedings. many of these actions involve large claims and significant defense costs. we insure a portion of our professional liability risks through a wholly-owned subsidiary. management believes our reserves for self-insured retentions and insurance coverage are sufficient to cover insured claims arising out of the operation of our facilities. our wholly-owned insurance subsidiary has entered into certain reinsurance contracts, and the obligations covered by the reinsurance contracts are included in its reserves for professional liability risks, as the subsidiary remains liable to the extent that the reinsurers do not meet their obligations under the reinsurance contracts. if payments for claims exceed actuarially determined estimates, are not covered by insurance, or reinsurers, if any, fail to meet their obligations, our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected. we are exposed to market risks related to changes in the market values of securities and interest rate changes. we are exposed to market risk related to changes in market values of securities. the investments in debt and equity securities of our wholly-owned insurance subsidiary were $1.309 billion and $7 million, respectively, at december 31, 2009. these investments are carried at fair value, with changes in unrealized gains and losses being recorded as adjustments to other comprehensive income. at december 31, 2009, we had a net unrealized gain of $20 million on the insurance subsidiary investment securities. we are exposed to market risk related to market illiquidity. liquidity of the investments in debt and equity securities of our wholly-owned insurance subsidiary could be impaired by the inability to access the capital markets. 33 table of contents should the wholly-owned insurance subsidiary require significant amounts of cash in excess of normal cash requirements to pay claims and other expenses on short notice, we may have difficulty selling these investments in a timely manner or be forced to sell them at a price less than what we might otherwise have been able to in a normal market environment. at december 31, 2009, our wholly-owned insurance subsidiary had invested $396 million ($401 million par value) in municipal, tax-exempt student loan auction rate securities ( ars ) that continued to experience market illiquidity since february 2008 when multiple failed auctions occurred due to a severe credit and liquidity crisis in the capital markets. it is uncertain if auction-related market liquidity will resume for these securities. we may be required to recognize other-than-temporary impairments on these investments in future periods should issuers default on interest payments or should the fair market valuations of the securities deteriorate due to ratings downgrades or other issue specific factors. we are also exposed to market risk related to changes in interest rates, and we periodically enter into interest rate swap agreements to manage our exposure to these fluctuations. our interest rate swap agreements involve the exchange of fixed and variable rate interest payments between two parties, based on common notional principal amounts and maturity dates. the net notional amounts of the swap agreements represent balances used to calculate the exchange of cash flows and are not our assets or liabilities. see item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations market risk. since the recapitalization, the investors control us and may have conflicts of interest with us in the future. as of december 31, 2009, the investors indirectly owned approximately 97.1% of our capital stock due to the recapitalization. as a result, the investors have control over our decisions to enter into any significant corporate transaction and have the ability to prevent any transaction that requires the approval of shareholders. for example, the investors could cause us to make acquisitions that increase the amount of our indebtedness or sell assets. additionally, the sponsors are in the business of making investments in companies and may acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. one or more of the sponsors may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. so long as investment funds associated with or designated by the sponsors continue to indirectly own a significant amount of the outstanding shares of our common stock, even if such amount is less than 50%, the sponsors will continue to be able to strongly influence or effectively control our decisions. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 60 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information with respect to this item is provided under the caption market risk under item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations.risk factors 37 risk factors if any of the events discussed in the following risk factors were to occur, our business, financial position, results of operations, cash flows or prospects could be materially, adversely affected. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known, or currently deemed immaterial, may also constrain our business and operations. our substantial leverage could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry, expose us to interest rate risk to the extent of our variable rate debt and prevent us from meeting our obligations. we are highly leveraged. as of december 31, 2010, our total indebtedness was $28.225 billion. as of december 31, 2010, we had availability of $1.189 billion under our senior secured revolving credit facility and $125 million under our asset-based revolving credit facility, after giving effect to letters of credit and borrowing base limitations. our high degree of leverage could have important consequences, including: increasing our vulnerability to downturns or adverse changes in general economic, industry or competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulations; requiring a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, therefore reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities; exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our unhedged borrowings are at variable rates of interest; limiting our ability to make strategic acquisitions or causing us to make nonstrategic divestitures; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product or service line development, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who are less highly leveraged. we and our subsidiaries have the ability to incur additional indebtedness in the future, subject to the restrictions contained in our senior secured credit facilities and the indentures governing our outstanding notes. if new indebtedness is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could intensify. we may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may not be able to refinance our indebtedness on favorable terms. if we are unable to do so, we may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. we cannot assure you we will maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. in addition, we conduct our operations through our subsidiaries. accordingly, repayment of our indebtedness is dependent on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise. our subsidiaries may not be able to, or may not be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness. each subsidiary is a distinct legal entity, and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. we may find it necessary or prudent to refinance our outstanding indebtedness with longer-maturity debt at a higher interest rate. in february, april and august of 2009 and in march of 2010, for example, we issued $310 million in aggregate principal amount of 9 7 / 8 % second lien notes due 2017, $1.500 billion in aggregate principal amount of 8 1 / 2 % first lien notes due 2019, $1.250 billion in aggregate principal amount of 7 7 / 8 % first lien notes due 2020 and $1.400 billion in aggregate principal amount of 7 1 / 4 % first lien notes due 2020, respectively. the net proceeds of those offerings were used to prepay term loans under our cash flow credit facility, which currently bears interest at a lower floating rate. our ability to refinance our indebtedness on favorable terms, or at all, is 37 table of contents directly affected by the current global economic and financial conditions. in addition, our ability to incur secured indebtedness (which would generally enable us to achieve better pricing than the incurrence of unsecured indebtedness) depends in part on the value of our assets, which depends, in turn, on the strength of our cash flows and results of operations, and on economic and market conditions and other factors. if our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations or we are unable to refinance our indebtedness, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure our indebtedness. these alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. if our operating results and available cash are insufficient to meet our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. we may not be able to consummate those dispositions, or the proceeds from the dispositions may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. our debt agreements contain restrictions that limit our flexibility in operating our business. our senior secured credit facilities and the indentures governing our outstanding notes contain various covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions. these covenants limit our and certain of our subsidiaries ability to, among other things: incur additional indebtedness or issue certain preferred shares; pay dividends on, repurchase or make distributions in respect of our capital stock or make other restricted payments; make certain investments; sell or transfer assets; create liens; consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and enter into certain transactions with our affiliates. under our asset-based revolving credit facility, when (and for as long as) the combined availability under our asset-based revolving credit facility and our senior secured revolving credit facility is less than a specified amount for a certain period of time or, if a payment or bankruptcy event of default has occurred and is continuing, funds deposited into any of our depository accounts will be transferred on a daily basis into a blocked account with the administrative agent and applied to prepay loans under the asset-based revolving credit facility and to cash collateralize letters of credit issued thereunder. under our senior secured credit facilities, we are required to satisfy and maintain specified financial ratios. our ability to meet those financial ratios can be affected by events beyond our control, and there can be no assurance we will continue to meet those ratios. a breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under both the cash flow credit facility and the asset-based revolving credit facility. upon the occurrence of an event of default under the senior secured credit facilities, the lenders thereunder could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the senior secured credit facilities to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. if we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under the senior secured credit facilities could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure such indebtedness. we have pledged a significant portion of our assets under our senior secured credit facilities and that collateral (other than certain european collateral securing our senior secured european term loan facility) is also pledged as collateral under our first lien notes. if any of the lenders under the senior secured credit facilities accelerate the repayment of borrowings, there can be no assurance there will be sufficient assets to repay the senior secured credit facilities, the first lien notes and our other indebtedness. our hospitals face competition for patients from other hospitals and health care providers. the health care business is highly competitive, and competition among hospitals and other health care providers for patients has intensified in recent years. generally, other hospitals in the local communities we serve provide services similar to those offered by our hospitals. in addition, cms publicizes on its hospital compare website performance data related to quality measures and data on patient satisfaction surveys hospitals submit in connection with their medicare reimbursement. federal law provides for the future expansion of the number of 38 table of contents quality measures that must be reported. additional quality measures and future trends toward clinical transparency may have an unanticipated impact on our competitive position and patient volumes. further, the health reform law requires all hospitals to annually establish, update and make public a list of the hospital standard charges for items and services. if any of our hospitals achieve poor results (or results that are lower than our competitors) on these quality measures or on patient satisfaction surveys or if our standard charges are higher than our competitors, our patient volumes could decline. in addition, the number of freestanding specialty hospitals, surgery centers and diagnostic and imaging centers in the geographic areas in which we operate has increased significantly. as a result, most of our hospitals operate in a highly competitive environment. some of the facilities that compete with our hospitals are owned by governmental agencies or not-for-profit corporations supported by endowments, charitable contributions and/or tax revenues and can finance capital expenditures and operations on a tax-exempt basis. our hospitals face increasing competition from specialty hospitals, some of which are physician-owned, and from both our own and unaffiliated freestanding surgery centers for market share in high margin services and for quality physicians and personnel. if ambulatory surgery centers are better able to compete in this environment than our hospitals, our hospitals may experience a decline in patient volume, and we may experience a decrease in margin, even if those patients use our ambulatory surgery centers. in states that do not require a con for the purchase, construction or expansion of health care facilities or services, competition in the form of new services, facilities and capital spending is more prevalent. further, if our competitors are better able to attract patients, recruit physicians, expand services or obtain favorable managed care contracts at their facilities than our hospitals and ambulatory surgery centers, we may experience an overall decline in patient volume. see item 1, business competition. the growth of uninsured and patient due accounts and a deterioration in the collectibility of these accounts could adversely affect our results of operations. the primary collection risks of our accounts receivable relate to the uninsured patient accounts and patient accounts for which the primary insurance carrier has paid the amounts covered by the applicable agreement, but patient responsibility amounts (deductibles and copayments) remain outstanding. the provision for doubtful accounts relates primarily to amounts due directly from patients. the amount of the provision for doubtful accounts is based upon management assessment of historical write-offs and expected net collections, business and economic conditions, trends in federal and state governmental and private employer health care coverage, the rate of growth in uninsured patient admissions and other collection indicators. at december 31, 2010, our allowance for doubtful accounts represented approximately 93% of the $4.249 billion patient due accounts receivable balance. the sum of the provision for doubtful accounts, uninsured discounts and charity care increased from $7.009 billion for 2008 to $8.362 billion for 2009 and to $9.626 billion for 2010. a continuation of the trends that have resulted in an increasing proportion of accounts receivable being comprised of uninsured accounts and a deterioration in the collectibility of these accounts will adversely affect our collection of accounts receivable, cash flows and results of operations. prior to the health reform law being fully implemented, our facilities may experience growth in bad debts, uninsured discounts and charity care as a result of a number of factors, including the economic downturn and increase in unemployment. the health reform law seeks to decrease, over time, the number of uninsured individuals. as enacted, the health reform law will, effective january 1, 2014, expand medicaid and incentivize employers to offer, and require individuals to carry, health insurance or be subject to penalties. more than 20 challenges to the health reform law have been filed in federal courts. some federal courts have upheld the constitutionality of the health reform law or dismissed cases on procedural grounds. others have held unconstitutional the requirement that individuals maintain health insurance or pay a penalty and have either found the health reform law void in its entirety or left the remainder of the law intact. these lawsuits are subject to appeal, and several are currently on appeal, including those that hold the law unconstitutional. it is difficult to predict the full impact of the health reform law due to the law complexity, lack of implementing regulations or interpretive guidance, gradual and potentially delayed implementation, pending court challenges and possible amendment or repeal, as well as our inability to foresee how individuals and businesses will respond to the choices afforded them by the law. in addition, even after implementation of the health reform law, we may continue to experience bad debts and have to provide uninsured discounts and charity care for 39 table of contents undocumented aliens who are not permitted to enroll in a health insurance exchange or government health care programs and certain others who may not have insurance coverage. changes in government health care programs may reduce our revenues. a significant portion of our patient volume is derived from government health care programs, principally medicare and medicaid. specifically, we derived approximately 41% of our revenues from the medicare and medicaid programs in 2010. changes in government health care programs may reduce the reimbursement we receive and could adversely affect our business and results of operations. in recent years, legislative and regulatory changes have resulted in limitations on and, in some cases, reductions in levels of payments to health care providers for certain services under the medicare program. for example, cms completed a two-year transition to full implementation of the ms-drg system, which represents a refinement to the existing diagnosis-related group system. future realignments in the ms-drg system could impact the margins we receive for certain services. further, the health reform law provides for material reductions in the growth of medicare program spending, including reductions in medicare market basket updates and medicare dsh funding. medicare payments in federal fiscal year 2011 for inpatient hospital services are expected to be slightly lower than payments for the same services in federal fiscal year 2010, because of reductions resulting from the health reform law and the ms-drg implementation. since most states must operate with balanced budgets and since the medicaid program is often a state largest program, some states can be expected to enact or consider enacting legislation designed to reduce their medicaid expenditures. the current economic downturn has increased the budgetary pressures on many states, and these budgetary pressures have resulted, and likely will continue to result, in decreased spending, or decreased spending growth, for medicaid programs and the chip in many states. the health reform law provides for material reductions to medicaid dsh funding. further, many states have also adopted, or are considering, legislation designed to reduce coverage, enroll medicaid recipients in managed care programs and/or impose additional taxes on hospitals to help finance or expand the states medicaid systems. effective march 23, 2010, the health reform law requires states to at least maintain medicaid eligibility standards established prior to the enactment of the law for adults until january 1, 2014 and for children until october 1, 2019. however, states with budget deficits may seek a waiver from this requirement to address eligibility standards that apply to adults making more than 133% of the federal poverty level. the health reform law also provides for significant expansions to the medicaid program, but these changes are not required until 2014. in addition, the health reform law will result in increased state legislative and regulatory changes in order for states to comply with new federal mandates, such as the requirement to establish exchanges, and to participate in grants and other incentive opportunities. in some cases, commercial third-party payers rely on all or portions of the ms-drg system to determine payment rates, which may result in decreased reimbursement from some commercial third-party payers. other changes to government health care programs may negatively impact payments from commercial third-party payers. current or future health care reform efforts, changes in laws or regulations regarding government health care programs, other changes in the administration of government health care programs and changes to commercial third-party payers in response to health care reform and other changes to government health care programs could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. we are unable to predict the impact of the health reform law, which represents a significant change to the health care industry. as enacted, the health reform law will change how health care services are covered, delivered, and reimbursed through expanded coverage of uninsured individuals, reduced growth in medicare program spending, reductions in medicare and medicaid dsh payments and the establishment of programs where reimbursement is tied to quality and integration. in addition, the law reforms certain aspects of health insurance, expands existing efforts to tie medicare and medicaid payments to performance and quality, and contains provisions intended to strengthen fraud and abuse enforcement. the expansion of health insurance coverage under the health reform law may result in a material increase in the number of patients using our facilities who have either private or public program coverage. in addition, a disproportionately large percentage of the new medicaid coverage is likely to be in 40 table of contents states that currently have relatively low income eligibility requirements. two such states are texas and florida, where about one-half of the company licensed beds are located. the company also has a significant presence in other relatively low income eligibility states, including georgia, kansas, louisiana, missouri, oklahoma and virginia. further, the health reform law provides for a value-based purchasing program, the establishment of acos and bundled payment pilot programs, which will create possible sources of additional revenue. however, it is difficult to predict the size of the potential revenue gains to the company as a result of these elements of the health reform law, because of uncertainty surrounding a number of material factors, including the following: how many previously uninsured individuals will obtain coverage as a result of the health reform law (while the cbo estimates 32 million, cms estimates almost 34 million; both agencies made a number of assumptions to derive that figure, including how many individuals will ignore substantial subsidies and decide to pay the penalty rather than obtain health insurance and what percentage of people in the future will meet the new medicaid income eligibility requirements); what percentage of the newly insured patients will be covered under the medicaid program and what percentage will be covered by private health insurers; the extent to which states will enroll new medicaid participants in managed care programs; the pace at which insurance coverage expands, including the pace of different types of coverage expansion; the change, if any, in the volume of inpatient and outpatient hospital services that are sought by and provided to previously uninsured individuals; the rate paid to hospitals by private payers for newly covered individuals, including those covered through the newly created exchanges and those who might be covered under the medicaid program under contracts with the state; the rate paid by state governments under the medicaid program for newly covered individuals; how the value-based purchasing and other quality programs will be implemented; the percentage of individuals in the exchanges who select the high deductible plans, since health insurers offering those kinds of products have traditionally sought to pay lower rates to hospitals; whether the net effect of the health reform law, including the prohibition on excluding individuals based on pre-existing conditions, the requirement to keep medical costs at or above a specified minimum percentage of premium revenue, other health insurance reforms and the annual fee applied to all health insurers, will be to put pressure on the bottom line of health insurers, which in turn might cause them to seek to reduce payments to hospitals with respect to both newly insured individuals and their existing business; and the possibility that implementation of the provisions expanding health insurance coverage or the entire health reform law will be delayed due to court challenges or revised or eliminated as a result of court challenges and efforts to repeal or amend the law. more than 20 challenges to the health reform law have been filed in federal courts. some federal district courts have upheld the constitutionality of the health reform law or dismissed cases on procedural grounds. others have held unconstitutional the requirement that individuals maintain health insurance or pay a penalty and have either found the health reform law void in its entirety or left the remainder of the law intact. these lawsuits are subject to appeal, and several are currently on appeal, including those that hold the law unconstitutional. on the other hand, the health reform law provides for significant reductions in the growth of medicare spending, reductions in medicare and medicaid dsh payments and the establishment of programs where reimbursement is tied to quality and integration. since 40.7% of our revenues in 2010 were from medicare and medicaid, reductions to these programs may significantly impact the company and could offset any positive effects of the health reform law. it is difficult to predict the size of the revenue reductions to medicare and medicaid spending, because of uncertainty regarding a number of material factors, including the following: the amount of overall revenues the company will generate from medicare and medicaid business when the reductions are implemented; 41 table of contents whether reductions required by the health reform law will be changed by statute or by judicial decision prior to becoming effective; the size of the health reform law annual productivity adjustment to the market basket beginning in 2012 payment years; the amount of the medicare dsh reductions that will be made, commencing in federal fiscal year 2014; the allocation to our hospitals of the medicaid dsh reductions, commencing in federal fiscal year 2014; what the losses in revenues will be, if any, from the health reform law quality initiatives; how successful acos, in which we anticipate participating, will be at coordinating care and reducing costs or whether they will decrease reimbursement; the scope and nature of potential changes to medicare reimbursement methods, such as an emphasis on bundling payments or coordination of care programs; whether the company revenues from upl programs will be adversely affected, because there may be fewer indigent, non-medicaid patients for whom the company provides services pursuant to upl programs; and reductions to medicare payments cms may impose for excessive readmissions. because of the many variables involved, we are unable to predict the net effect on the company of the expected increases in insured individuals using our facilities, the reductions in medicare spending, reductions in medicare and medicaid dsh funding, and numerous other provisions in the health reform law that may affect the company. further, it is unclear how efforts to repeal or revise the health reform law and federal lawsuits challenging its constitutionality will be resolved or what the impact would be of any resulting changes to the law. if we are unable to retain and negotiate favorable contracts with nongovernment payers, including managed care plans, our revenues may be reduced. our ability to obtain favorable contracts with nongovernment payers, including health maintenance organizations, preferred provider organizations and other managed care plans significantly affects the revenues and operating results of our facilities. revenues derived from these entities and other insurers accounted for 53.7% and 53.4% of our revenues for 2010 and 2009, respectively. nongovernment payers, including managed care payers, continue to demand discounted fee structures, and the trend toward consolidation among nongovernment payers tends to increase their bargaining power over fee structures. as various provisions of the health reform law are implemented, including the establishment of the exchanges, nongovernment payers increasingly may demand reduced fees. our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to retain and renew our managed care contracts and enter into new managed care contracts on terms favorable to us. other health care providers may impact our ability to enter into managed care contracts or negotiate increases in our reimbursement and other favorable terms and conditions. for example, some of our competitors may negotiate exclusivity provisions with managed care plans or otherwise restrict the ability of managed care companies to contract with us. it is not clear what impact, if any, the increased obligations on managed care payers and other payers imposed by the health reform law will have on our ability to negotiate reimbursement increases. if we are unable to retain and negotiate favorable contracts with managed care plans or experience reductions in payment increases or amounts received from nongovernment payers, our revenues may be reduced. our performance depends on our ability to recruit and retain quality physicians. the success of our hospitals depends in part on the number and quality of the physicians on the medical staffs of our hospitals, the admitting practices of those physicians and maintaining good relations with those physicians. although we employ some physicians, physicians are often not employees of the hospitals at which they practice and, in many of the markets we serve, most physicians have admitting privileges at other hospitals in addition to our hospitals. such physicians may terminate their affiliation with our hospitals at any time. if we are unable to provide adequate support personnel or technologically advanced equipment and hospital facilities that meet the needs of 42 table of contents those physicians and their patients, they may be discouraged from referring patients to our facilities, admissions may decrease and our operating performance may decline. our hospitals face competition for staffing, which may increase labor costs and reduce profitability. our operations are dependent on the efforts, abilities and experience of our management and medical support personnel, such as nurses, pharmacists and lab technicians, as well as our physicians. we compete with other health care providers in recruiting and retaining qualified management and support personnel responsible for the daily operations of each of our hospitals, including nurses and other nonphysician health care professionals. in some markets, the availability of nurses and other medical support personnel has been a significant operating issue to health care providers. we may be required to continue to enhance wages and benefits to recruit and retain nurses and other medical support personnel or to hire more expensive temporary or contract personnel. as a result, our labor costs could increase. we also depend on the available labor pool of semi-skilled and unskilled employees in each of the markets in which we operate. certain proposed changes in federal labor laws, including the employee free choice act, could increase the likelihood of employee unionization attempts. to the extent a significant portion of our employee base unionizes, it is possible our labor costs could increase materially. when negotiating collective bargaining agreements with unions, whether such agreements are renewals or first contracts, there is the possibility that strikes could occur during the negotiation process, and our continued operation during any strikes could increase our labor costs. in addition, the states in which we operate could adopt mandatory nurse-staffing ratios or could reduce mandatory nurse staffing ratios already in place. state-mandated nurse-staffing ratios could significantly affect labor costs and have an adverse impact on revenues if we are required to limit admissions in order to meet the required ratios. if our labor costs increase, we may not be able to raise rates to offset these increased costs. because a significant percentage of our revenues consists of fixed, prospective payments, our ability to pass along increased labor costs is constrained. our failure to recruit and retain qualified management, nurses and other medical support personnel, or to control labor costs, could have a material, adverse effect on our results of operations. if we fail to comply with extensive laws and government regulations, we could suffer penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations. the health care industry is required to comply with extensive and complex laws and regulations at the federal, state and local government levels relating to, among other things: billing and coding for services and properly handling overpayments; relationships with physicians and other referral sources; necessity and adequacy of medical care; quality of medical equipment and services; qualifications of medical and support personnel; confidentiality, maintenance, data breach, identity theft and security issues associated with health-related and personal information and medical records; screening, stabilization and transfer of individuals who have emergency medical conditions; licensure and certification; hospital rate or budget review; preparing and filing of cost reports; operating policies and procedures; activities regarding competitors; and addition of facilities and services. 43 table of contents among these laws are the federal anti-kickback statute, the federal physician self-referral law (commonly called the stark law), the federal fca and similar state laws. we have a variety of financial relationships with physicians and others who either refer or influence the referral of patients to our hospitals and other health care facilities, and these laws govern those relationships. the oig has enacted safe harbor regulations that outline practices deemed protected from prosecution under the anti-kickback statute. while we endeavor to comply with the applicable safe harbors, certain of our current arrangements, including joint ventures and financial relationships with physicians and other referral sources and persons and entities to which we refer patients, do not qualify for safe harbor protection. failure to qualify for a safe harbor does not mean the arrangement necessarily violates the anti-kickback statute but may subject the arrangement to greater scrutiny. however, we cannot offer assurance that practices outside of a safe harbor will not be found to violate the anti-kickback statute. allegations of violations of the anti-kickback statute may be brought under the federal civil monetary penalty law, which requires a lower burden of proof than other fraud and abuse laws, including the anti-kickback statute. our financial relationships with referring physicians and their immediate family members must comply with the stark law by meeting an exception. we attempt to structure our relationships to meet an exception to the stark law, but the regulations implementing the exceptions are detailed and complex, and we cannot provide assurance that every relationship complies fully with the stark law. unlike the anti-kickback statute, failure to meet an exception under the stark law results in a violation of the stark law, even if such violation is technical in nature. additionally, if we violate the anti-kickback statute or stark law, or if we improperly bill for our services, we may be found to violate the fca, either under a suit brought by the government or by a private person under a qui tam , or whistleblower, suit. see item 1, business regulation and other factors. if we fail to comply with the anti-kickback statute, the stark law, the fca or other applicable laws and regulations, we could be subjected to liabilities, including civil penalties (including the loss of our licenses to operate one or more facilities), exclusion of one or more facilities from participation in the medicare, medicaid and other federal and state health care programs and, for violations of certain laws and regulations, criminal penalties. we do not always have the benefit of significant regulatory or judicial interpretation of these laws and regulations. in the future, different interpretations or enforcement of, or amendment to, these laws and regulations could subject our current or past practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality or could require us to make changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel, services, capital expenditure programs and operating expenses. a determination that we have violated these laws, or the public announcement that we are being investigated for possible violations of these laws, could have a material, adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects, and our business reputation could suffer significantly. in addition, other legislation or regulations at the federal or state level may be adopted that adversely affect our business. we have been and could become the subject of governmental investigations, claims and litigation. health care companies are subject to numerous investigations by various governmental agencies. further, under the fca, private parties have the right to bring qui tam , or whistleblower, suits against companies that submit false claims for payments to, or improperly retain overpayments from, the government. some states have adopted similar state whistleblower and false claims provisions. certain of our individual facilities have received, and other facilities may receive, government inquiries from, and may be subject to investigation by, federal and state agencies. depending on whether the underlying conduct in these or future inquiries or investigations could be considered systemic, their resolution could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. governmental agencies and their agents, such as the medicare administrative contractors, fiscal intermediaries and carriers, as well as the oig, cms and state medicaid programs, conduct audits of our health care operations. private payers may conduct similar post-payment audits, and we also perform internal audits and monitoring. depending on the nature of the conduct found in such audits and whether the underlying conduct could be considered systemic, the resolution of these audits could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. 44 table of contents as required by statute, cms has implemented the rac program on a nationwide basis. under the program, cms contracts with racs on a contingency fee basis to conduct post-payment reviews to detect and correct improper payments in the fee-for-service medicare program. the health reform law expands the rac program scope to include managed medicare plans and to include medicaid claims. in addition, cms employs mics to perform post-payment audits of medicaid claims and identify overpayments. the health reform law increases federal funding for the mic program for federal fiscal year 2011 and later years. in addition to racs and mics, the state medicaid agencies and other contractors have increased their review activities. should we be found out of compliance with any of these laws, regulations or programs, depending on the nature of the findings, our business, our financial position and our results of operations could be negatively impacted. controls designed to reduce inpatient services may reduce our revenues. controls imposed by medicare, managed medicare, medicaid, managed medicaid and commercial third-party payers designed to reduce admissions and lengths of stay, commonly referred to as utilization review, have affected and are expected to continue to affect our facilities. utilization review entails the review of the admission and course of treatment of a patient by health plans. inpatient utilization, average lengths of stay and occupancy rates continue to be negatively affected by payer-required preadmission authorization and utilization review and by payer pressure to maximize outpatient and alternative health care delivery services for less acutely ill patients. efforts to impose more stringent cost controls are expected to continue. for example, the health reform law potentially expands the use of prepayment review by medicare contractors by eliminating statutory restrictions on their use. although we are unable to predict the effect these changes will have on our operations, significant limits on the scope of services reimbursed and on reimbursement rates and fees could have a material, adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. our overall business results may suffer from the economic downturn. during periods of high unemployment, governmental entities often experience budget deficits as a result of increased costs and lower than expected tax collections. these budget deficits at federal, state and local government entities have decreased, and may continue to decrease, spending for health and human service programs, including medicare, medicaid and similar programs, which represent significant payer sources for our hospitals. other risks we face during periods of high unemployment include potential declines in the population covered under managed care agreements, patient decisions to postpone or cancel elective and non-emergency health care procedures, potential increases in the uninsured and underinsured populations and further difficulties in our collecting patient co-payment and deductible receivables. the industry trend towards value-based purchasing may negatively impact our revenues. there is a trend in the health care industry towards value-based purchasing of health care services. these value-based purchasing programs include both public reporting of quality data and preventable adverse events tied to the quality and efficiency of care provided by facilities. governmental programs including medicare and medicaid currently require hospitals to report certain quality data to receive full reimbursement updates. in addition, medicare does not reimburse for care related to certain preventable adverse events (also called never events ). many large commercial payers currently require hospitals to report quality data, and several commercial payers do not reimburse hospitals for certain preventable adverse events. further, we have implemented a policy pursuant to which we do not bill patients or third-party payers for fees or expenses incurred due to certain preventable adverse events. effective july 1, 2011, the health reform law will prohibit the use of federal funds under the medicaid program to reimburse providers for medical assistance provided to treat hacs. beginning in federal fiscal year 2015, the 25% of hospitals with the worst national risk-adjusted hac rates in the previous year will receive a 1% reduction in their total inpatient operating medicare payments. hospitals with excessive readmissions for 45 table of contents conditions designated by hhs will receive reduced payments for all inpatient discharges, not just discharges relating to the conditions subject to the excessive readmission standard. the health reform law also requires hhs to implement a value-based purchasing program for inpatient hospital services. the health reform law requires hhs to reduce inpatient hospital payments for all discharges by a percentage beginning at 1% in federal fiscal year 2013 and increasing by 0.25% each fiscal year up to 2% in federal fiscal year 2017 and subsequent years. hhs will pool the amount collected from these reductions to fund payments to reward hospitals that meet or exceed certain quality performance standards established by hhs. hhs will determine the amount each hospital that meets or exceeds the quality performance standards will receive from the pool of dollars created by these payment reductions. as proposed by cms, the value-based purchasing program will initially calculate incentive payments based on hospitals achievement of 17 clinical process of care measures and eight dimensions of a patient experience of care using the hcahps survey and their improvement in meeting these standards compared to prior periods. for federal fiscal year 2013, cms estimates the value-based purchasing program will redistribute $850 million among the nation hospitals. we expect value-based purchasing programs, including programs that condition reimbursement on patient outcome measures, to become more common and to involve a higher percentage of reimbursement amounts. we are unable at this time to predict how this trend will affect our results of operations, but it could negatively impact our revenues. our operations could be impaired by a failure of our information systems. any system failure that causes an interruption in service or availability of our systems could adversely affect operations or delay the collection of revenues. even though we have implemented network security measures, our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering. the occurrence of any of these events could result in interruptions, delays, the loss or corruption of data, cessations in the availability of systems or liability under privacy and security laws, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations and harm our business reputation. the performance of our information technology and systems is critical to our business operations. in addition to our shared services initiatives, our information systems are essential to a number of critical areas of our operations, including: accounting and financial reporting; billing and collecting accounts; coding and compliance; clinical systems; medical records and document storage; inventory management; negotiating, pricing and administering managed care contracts and supply contracts; and monitoring quality of care and collecting data on quality measures necessary for full medicare payment updates. if we fail to effectively and timely implement electronic health record systems, our operations could be adversely affected. as required by the arra, the secretary of hhs is in the process of developing and implementing an incentive payment program for eligible hospitals and health care professionals that adopt and meaningfully use certified ehr technology. hhs intends to use the provider enrollment, chain and ownership system ( pecos ) to verify medicare enrollment prior to making ehr incentive program payments. during 2011, we anticipate receiving medicare and medicaid incentive payments for being a meaningful user of certified ehr technology. we anticipate a majority of 2011 incentive payments will be received and recognized as revenues during the fourth quarter of 2011. medicare and medicaid incentive payments for our eligible hospitals and professionals are estimated to range from $275 million to $325 million for 2011. actual incentive payments could vary from these estimates due to certain 46 table of contents factors such as availability of federal funding for both medicare and medicaid incentive payments, timing of the approval of state medicaid incentive payment plans by cms and our ability to implement and demonstrate meaningful use of certified ehr technology. we have incurred and will continue to incur both capital costs and operating expenses in order to implement our certified ehr technology and meet meaningful use requirements. these expenses are ongoing and are projected to continue over all stages of implementation of meaningful use. the timing of expenses will not correlate with the receipt of the incentive payments and the recognition of revenues. we estimate that operating expenses to implement our certified ehr technology and meet meaningful use will range from $125 million to $150 million for 2011. actual operating expenses could vary from these estimates. if our hospitals and employed professionals are unable to meet the requirements for participation in the incentive payment program, including having an enrollment record in pecos, we will not be eligible to receive incentive payments that could offset some of the costs of implementing ehr systems. further, eligible providers that fail to demonstrate meaningful use of certified ehr technology will be subject to reduced payments from medicare, beginning in federal fiscal year 2015 for eligible hospitals and calendar year 2015 for eligible professionals. failure to implement certified ehr systems effectively and in a timely manner could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. state efforts to regulate the construction or expansion of health care facilities could impair our ability to operate and expand our operations. some states, particularly in the eastern part of the country, require health care providers to obtain prior approval, known as a con, for the purchase, construction or expansion of health care facilities, to make certain capital expenditures or to make changes in services or bed capacity. in giving approval, these states consider the need for additional or expanded health care facilities or services. we currently operate health care facilities in a number of states with con laws. the failure to obtain any requested con could impair our ability to operate or expand operations. any such failure could, in turn, adversely affect our ability to attract patients to our facilities and grow our revenues, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. our facilities are heavily concentrated in florida and texas, which makes us sensitive to regulatory, economic, environmental and competitive conditions and changes in those states. we operated 164 hospitals at december 31, 2010, and 74 of those hospitals are located in florida and texas. our florida and texas facilities combined revenues represented approximately 52% of our consolidated revenues for the year ended december 31, 2010. this concentration makes us particularly sensitive to regulatory, economic, environmental and competitive conditions and changes in those states. any material change in the current payment programs or regulatory, economic, environmental or competitive conditions in those states could have a disproportionate effect on our overall business results. in addition, our hospitals in florida, texas and other areas across the gulf coast are located in hurricane-prone areas. in the recent past, hurricanes have had a disruptive effect on the operations of our hospitals in florida, texas and other coastal states, and the patient populations in those states. our business activities could be harmed by a particularly active hurricane season or even a single storm, and the property insurance we obtain may not be adequate to cover losses from future hurricanes or other natural disasters. we may be subject to liabilities from claims by the internal revenue service. we are currently contesting, before the irs appeals division, certain claimed deficiencies and adjustments proposed by the irs examination division in connection with its audit of hca inc. 2005 and 2006 federal income tax returns. the disputed items include the timing of recognition of certain patient service revenues, the deductibility of certain debt retirement costs and our method for calculating the tax allowance for doubtful accounts. in addition, eight taxable periods of hca inc. and its predecessors ended in 1997 through 2004, for which the primary remaining issue is the computation of the tax allowance for doubtful accounts, are currently pending before the irs examination division. the irs examination division began an audit of hca inc. 2007, 2008 and 2009 federal income tax returns in december 2010. management believes hca holdings, inc., its predecessors, subsidiaries and affiliates properly reported taxable income and paid taxes in accordance with applicable laws and agreements established with the irs and final resolution of these disputes will not have a material, adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. 47 table of contents however, if payments due upon final resolution of these issues exceed our recorded estimates, such resolutions could have a material, adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. we may be subject to liabilities from claims brought against our facilities. we are subject to litigation relating to our business practices, including claims and legal actions by patients and others in the ordinary course of business alleging malpractice, product liability or other legal theories. many of these actions involve large claims and significant defense costs. we insure a portion of our professional liability risks through a wholly-owned subsidiary. management believes our reserves for self-insured retentions and insurance coverage are sufficient to cover insured claims arising out of the operation of our facilities. our wholly-owned insurance subsidiary has entered into certain reinsurance contracts, and the obligations covered by the reinsurance contracts are included in its reserves for professional liability risks, as the subsidiary remains liable to the extent that the reinsurers do not meet their obligations under the reinsurance contracts. if payments for claims exceed actuarially determined estimates, are not covered by insurance, or reinsurers, if any, fail to meet their obligations, our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected. we are exposed to market risks related to changes in the market values of securities and interest rate changes. we are exposed to market risk related to changes in market values of securities. the investments in debt and equity securities of our wholly-owned insurance subsidiary were $734 million and $8 million, respectively, at december 31, 2010. these investments are carried at fair value, with changes in unrealized gains and losses being recorded as adjustments to other comprehensive income. at december 31, 2010, we had a net unrealized gain of $10 million on the insurance subsidiary investment securities. we are exposed to market risk related to market illiquidity. liquidity of the investments in debt and equity securities of our wholly-owned insurance subsidiary could be impaired by the inability to access the capital markets. should the wholly-owned insurance subsidiary require significant amounts of cash in excess of normal cash requirements to pay claims and other expenses on short notice, we may have difficulty selling these investments in a timely manner or be forced to sell them at a price less than what we might otherwise have been able to in a normal market environment. at december 31, 2010, our wholly-owned insurance subsidiary had invested $250 million ($251 million par value) in tax-exempt student loan auction rate securities that continue to experience market illiquidity. it is uncertain if auction-related market liquidity will resume for these securities. we may be required to recognize other-than-temporary impairments on these long-term investments in future periods should issuers default on interest payments or should the fair market valuations of the securities deteriorate due to ratings downgrades or other issue specific factors. we are also exposed to market risk related to changes in interest rates, and we periodically enter into interest rate swap agreements to manage our exposure to these fluctuations. our interest rate swap agreements involve the exchange of fixed and variable rate interest payments between two parties, based on common notional principal amounts and maturity dates. the notional amounts of the swap agreements represent balances used to calculate the exchange of cash flows and are not our assets or liabilities. since the recapitalization, the investors control us and may have conflicts of interest with us in the future. as of december 31, 2010, the investors indirectly owned approximately 96.8% of our capital stock due to the recapitalization. as a result, the investors have control over our decisions to enter into any significant corporate transaction and have the ability to prevent any transaction that requires the approval of stockholders. for example, the investors could cause us to make acquisitions that increase the amount of our indebtedness or sell assets. additionally, the sponsors are in the business of making investments in companies and may acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. one or more of the sponsors may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. so long as investment funds associated with or designated by the sponsors continue to indirectly own a significant amount of the outstanding shares of our common stock, even if such amount is less than 50%, the sponsors will continue to be able to strongly influence or effectively control our decisions. 48 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 77 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information with respect to this item is provided under the caption market risk under item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk........................................................ 52 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information called for by this item is provided under the caption "market risk" under item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk........................................................ 60 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information called for by this item is provided under the caption "market risk" under item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 64 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information called for by this item is provided under the caption market risk under item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 53 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information called for by this item is provided under the caption market risk under item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 54 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information called for by this item is provided under the caption market risk under item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations.risk factors 22 risk factors risk factors if any of the events discussed in the following risk factors were to occur, hca business, financial position, results of operations, cash flows or prospects could be materially, adversely affected. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known, or currently deemed immaterial, may also constrain its business and operations. in either case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and stockholders could lose all or part of their investment. our hospitals face competition for patients from other hospitals and health care providers. the health care business is highly competitive and competition among hospitals and other health care providers for patients has intensified in recent years. generally, other hospitals in the local communities served by most of our hospitals provide services similar to those offered by our hospitals. in 2005, cms began making public performance data related to ten quality measures that hospitals submit in connection with their medicare reimbursement. if any of our hospitals achieve poor results (or results that are lower than our competitors) on these ten quality measures, patient volumes could decline. in the future, other trends toward clinical transparency may have an unanticipated impact on our competitive position and patient volumes. in addition, the number of freestanding specialty hospitals, surgery centers and diagnostic and imaging centers in the geographic areas in which we operate has increased significantly. as a result, most of our hospitals operate in a highly competitive environment. some of the hospitals that compete with our hospitals are owned by governmental agencies or not-for-profit corporations supported by endowments, charitable contributions and/or tax revenues and can finance capital expenditures and operations on a tax-exempt basis. we are facing increasing competition from physician-owned specialty hospitals and freestanding surgery centers for market share in high margin services and for quality physicians and personnel. if our competitors are better able to attract patients, recruit physicians, expand services or obtain favorable managed care contracts at their facilities, we may experience a decline in patient volume. see item 1, business competition. 22 table of contents section 507 of mma provided for an 18-month moratorium on the establishment of new specialty hospitals. congress also required that medpac and hhs conduct studies on specialty hospitals with reports to be completed no later than 15 months after the date of enactment of mma. the moratorium expired on june 8, 2005. in march 2005, medpac issued its report on specialty hospitals, in which it recommended that congress extend the moratorium until january 1, 2007, modify payments to hospitals to reflect more closely the cost of care, and allow certain types of gainsharing arrangements. in may 2005, hhs issued the required report of its analysis of specialty hospitals in which it recommended reforming certain inpatient hospital services and ambulatory surgery center services payment rates that may currently encourage the establishment of specialty hospitals and implementation of closer scrutiny of the processes for approving new specialty hospitals for participation in medicare. further, hhs suspended processing new provider enrollment applications for specialty hospitals until january 2006, creating in effect a moratorium on new specialty hospitals. defra 2005 directed hhs to extend this enrollment suspension until the earlier of six months from the enactment of defra 2005 or the release of a report regarding physician owned specialty hospitals by hhs. we cannot predict whether the moratorium will be extended beyond this date. if the moratorium expires, we may face additional competition from an increased number of specialty hospitals, including hospitals owned by physicians currently on staff at our hospitals. the growth of uninsured and patient due accounts and a deterioration in the collectibility of these accounts could adversely affect our results of operations. the primary collection risks of our accounts receivable relate to the uninsured patient accounts and patient accounts for which the primary insurance carrier has paid the amounts covered by the applicable agreement, but patient responsibility amounts (deductibles and copayments) remain outstanding. the provision for doubtful accounts relates primarily to amounts due directly from patients. on december 29, 2004, cms issued guidance that has enabled hospitals to provide discounts to any uninsured patient without placing the hospital medicare payments at risk. based on this guidance, in 2005 we implemented modifications to our self-pay policies, the effect of which was to provide a discount to uninsured patients who do not qualify for medicaid or charity care. these discounts are similar to those provided to many local managed care plans. in implementing the discount policy, hospitals first attempt to qualify uninsured patients for medicaid, other federal or state assistance or charity care. if an uninsured patient does not qualify for these programs, the uninsured discount is applied. the amount of the provision for doubtful accounts is based upon management assessment of historical writeoffs and expected net collections, business and economic conditions, trends in federal and state governmental and private employer health care coverage and other collection indicators. at december 31, 2005, our allowance for doubtful accounts represented approximately 85% of the $3.404 billion patient due accounts receivable balance, including accounts, net of estimated contractual discounts, related to patients for which eligibility for medicaid coverage was being evaluated ( pending medicaid accounts ). for the year ended december 31, 2005, the provision for doubtful accounts decreased to 9.6% of revenues compared to 11.4% of revenues in 2004. adjusting for the effect of the uninsured discount policy implemented january 1, 2005, the provision for doubtful accounts was 12.4% of revenues for the year ended december 31, 2005. a continuation of the trends that have resulted in an increasing proportion of accounts receivable being comprised of uninsured accounts and a deterioration in the collectibility of these accounts will adversely affect our collection of accounts receivable, cash flows and results of operations. changes in governmental programs may reduce our revenues. a significant portion of our patient volumes is derived from government health care programs, principally medicare and medicaid, which are highly regulated and subject to frequent and substantial changes. we derived approximately 53% of our admissions from the medicare and medicaid programs in 2005. in recent years, legislative changes have resulted in limitations on and, in some cases, reductions in levels of payments to health care providers for certain services under these government programs. 23 table of contents congress has directed medpac to make recommendations regarding the levels of payments to health care providers under the medicare program. for inpatient services for fiscal year 2007, medpac has recommended that congress update inpatient pps payments by the market basket minus 0.45 percentage points. for outpatient services for calendar year 2007, medpac has recommended that congress update outpatient pps payments by the market basket minus 0.45 percentage points. it is uncertain whether congress will adopt these recommendations. if congress adopts these recommendations, hca revenues may be reduced. other medicare payment changes may also reduce hca revenues. see item 1, business sources of revenue. a number of states are experiencing budget problems and have adopted, or are considering, legislation designed to reduce their medicaid expenditures. defra 2005, signed into law on february 8, 2006, includes medicaid cuts of approximately $4.8 billion over five years. in addition, proposed regulatory changes, if implemented, would reduce federal medicaid funding by an additional $12.2 billion over five years. states have also adopted, or are considering, legislation designed to reduce coverage and program eligibility, enroll medicaid recipients in managed care programs and/or impose additional taxes on hospitals to help finance or expand the states medicaid systems. hospital operating margins have been, and may continue to be, under significant pressure because of deterioration in pricing flexibility and payer mix, and growth in operating expenses in excess of the increase in pps payments under the medicare program. future legislation or other changes in the administration or interpretation of government health programs could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. demands of nongovernment payers may adversely affect our growth in revenues. our ability to negotiate favorable contracts with nongovernment payers, including managed care plans, significantly affects the revenues and operating results of most of our hospitals. admissions derived from managed care and other insurers accounted for approximately 42% of our admissions in 2005. nongovernment payers, including managed care payers, increasingly are demanding discounted fee structures. reductions in price increases or the amounts received from managed care, commercial insurance or other payers could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. our performance depends on our ability to recruit and retain quality physicians. physicians generally direct the majority of hospital admissions and, therefore, the success of our hospitals depend, in part, on the number and quality of the physicians on the medical staffs of our hospitals, the admitting practices of those physicians and maintaining good relations with those physicians. physicians are generally not employees of the hospitals at which they practice and, in many of the markets that hca serves, most physicians have admitting privileges at other hospitals in addition to our hospitals. such physicians may terminate their affiliation with our hospitals at any time. if we are unable to provide adequate support personnel or technologically advanced equipment and hospital facilities that meet the needs of those physicians, they may be discouraged from referring patients to our facilities, admissions may decrease and our operating performance may decline. if we fail to comply with extensive laws and government regulations, we could suffer penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations. the health care industry is required to comply with extensive and complex laws and regulations at the federal, state and local government levels relating to, among other things: billing for services; relationships with physicians and other referral sources; adequacy of medical care; quality of medical equipment and services; qualifications of medical and support personnel; 24 table of contents confidentiality, maintenance and security issues associated with health-related information and medical records; the screening, stabilization and transfer of individuals who have emergency medical conditions; licensure; hospital rate or budget review; operating policies and procedures; and addition of facilities and services. among these laws are the anti-kickback statute and the stark law. these laws impact the relationships that we may have with physicians and other referral sources. we have a variety of financial relationships with physicians who refer patients to our hospitals, including employment contracts, leases and professional service agreements. we also provide financial incentives, including minimum revenue guarantees, to recruit physicians into the communities served by our hospitals. the oig has enacted safe harbor regulations that outline practices that are deemed protected from prosecution under the anti-kickback statute. while we endeavor to comply with the applicable safe harbors, certain of our current arrangements, including joint ventures and financial relationships with physicians and other referral sources, do not qualify for safe harbor protection. failure to meet a safe harbor does not mean that the arrangement necessarily violates the anti-kickback statute, but may subject the arrangement to greater scrutiny. we cannot assure that practices that are outside of a safe harbor will not be found to violate the anti-kickback statute. our financial relationships with physicians and their immediate family members must comply with the stark law by meeting an exception. we attempt to structure our relationships to meet an exception to the stark law, but the regulations implementing the exceptions are detailed and complex, and we cannot assure that every relationship complies fully with the stark law. unlike the anti-kickback statute, failure to meet an exception under the stark law results in a violation of the stark law, even if such violation is technical in nature. if we fail to comply with the anti-kickback statute, the stark law or other applicable laws and regulations, we could be subjected to liabilities, including criminal penalties, civil penalties (including the loss of our licenses to operate one or more facilities), and exclusion of one or more facilities from participation in the medicare, medicaid and other federal and state health care programs. see item 1, business regulation and other factors. because many of these laws and their implementation regulations are relatively new, we do not always have the benefit of significant regulatory or judicial interpretation of these laws and regulations. in the future, different interpretations or enforcement of these laws and regulations could subject our current or past practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality, or could require us to make changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel, services, capital expenditure programs and operating expenses. a determination that we have violated these laws, or the public announcement that we are being investigated for possible violations of these laws, could have a material adverse effect our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects and our business reputation could suffer significantly. in addition, we are unable to predict whether other legislation or regulations at the federal or state level will be adopted, what form such legislation or regulations may take or their impact. our hospitals face competition for staffing, which may increase labor costs and reduce profitability. our operations are dependent on the efforts, abilities and experience of our management and medical support personnel, such as nurses, pharmacists and lab technicians, as well as our physicians. we compete with other health care providers in recruiting and retaining qualified management and support personnel responsible for the daily operations of each of our hospitals, including nurses and other nonphysician health care professionals. in some markets, the availability of nurses and other medical support personnel has become a significant operating issue to health care providers. this shortage may require us to continue to enhance 25 table of contents wages and benefits to recruit and retain nurses and other medical support personnel or to hire more expensive temporary personnel. we also depend on the available labor pool of semiskilled and unskilled employees in each of the markets in which we operate. in addition, to the extent that a significant portion of our employee base unionizes, or attempts to unionize, our labor costs could increase. if our labor costs increase, we may not be able to raise rates to offset these increased costs. because a significant percentage of our revenues consists of fixed, prospective payments, our ability to pass along increased labor costs is constrained. our failure to recruit and retain qualified management, nurses and other medical support personnel, or to control labor costs, could have a material, adverse effect on our results of operations. we have been the subject of governmental investigations, claims and litigation that have resulted in significant charges and ongoing reporting obligations. commencing in 1997, hca became aware that we were the subject of governmental investigations and litigation relating to our business practices. the investigations were concluded through a series of agreements executed in 2000 and 2003. in january 2001, we entered into an eight-year cia with the oig. if we were found to be in violation of the cia, we could be subject to substantial monetary fines, civil and criminal penalties and/or exclusion from participation in the medicare and medicaid programs. any such sanctions or expenses could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. in september 2005, we received a subpoena from the office of the united states attorney for the southern district of new york seeking the production of documents. also in september 2005, we were informed that the sec had issued a formal order of investigation. both the subpoena and the formal order of investigation relate to trading in our securities. we are cooperating fully with these investigations. subsequently, hca and certain of our executive officers and directors were named in various federal securities law class actions and several shareholders have filed derivative lawsuits purportedly on behalf of the company. additionally, a former employee of hca filed a complaint against certain of our executive officers pursuant to the employee retirement income security act and we have been served with a shareholder demand letter addressed to our board of directors. we cannot predict the results of the investigations or any related lawsuits or the effect that findings in such investigations or lawsuits adverse to us may have on us. these proceedings are described in greater detail in item 3, legal proceedings. controls designed to reduce inpatient services may reduce our revenues. controls imposed by third-party payers designed to reduce admissions and lengths of stay, commonly referred to as utilization review, have affected and are expected to continue to affect our facilities. utilization review entails the review of the admission and course of treatment of a patient by managed care plans. inpatient utilization, average lengths of stay and occupancy rates continue to be negatively affected by payer-required preadmission authorization and utilization review and by payer pressure to maximize outpatient and alternative health care delivery services for less acutely ill patients. efforts to impose more stringent cost controls are expected to continue. although we are unable to predict the effect these changes will have on our operations, significant limits on the scope of services reimbursed and on reimbursement rates and fees could have a material, adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. our operations could be impaired by a failure of our information systems. the performance of our sophisticated information technology and systems is critical to our business operations. in addition to our shared services initiatives, our information systems are essential to a number of critical areas of our operations, including: accounting and financial reporting; billing and collecting accounts; coding and compliance; clinical systems; 26 table of contents medical records and document storage; inventory management; and negotiating, pricing and administering managed care contracts and supply contracts. we are in the process of implementing projects to replace our payroll and human resources information systems. management estimates that the payroll and human resources system projects will require total expenditures of approximately $332 million to develop and install. at december 31, 2005, project-to -date costs incurred were $278 million ($158 million of the costs incurred have been capitalized and $120 million have been expensed). management expects that the system development, testing, data conversion and installation will continue through 2006. there can be no assurance that the development and implementation of those systems will not be delayed, that the total cost will not be significantly more than currently anticipated, that business processes will not be interrupted during implementation or that we will realize the expected benefits and efficiencies from the developed products. any system failure that causes an interruption in service or availability of our systems could adversely affect operations or delay the collection of revenue. even though we have implemented network security measures, our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering. the occurrence of any of these events could result in interruptions, delays, the loss or corruption of data, or cessations in the availability of systems, all of which could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations and harm our business reputation. state efforts to regulate the construction or expansion of hospitals could impair our ability to operate and expand our operations. some states require health care providers to obtain prior approval, known as a certificate of need, or con, for the purchase, construction or expansion of health care facilities, to make certain capital expenditures or to make changes in services or bed capacity. in giving approval, these states consider the need for additional or expanded health care facilities or services. we currently operate hospitals in a number of states with con laws. the failure to obtain any requested con could impair our ability to operate or expand operations. our facilities are heavily concentrated in florida and texas, which makes us sensitive to regulatory, economic, environmental and competitive changes in those states. hca operated 182 hospitals at december 31, 2005, and 74 of those hospitals are located in florida and texas. this situation makes us particularly sensitive to regulatory, economic, environmental and competition changes in those states. any material change in the current payment programs or regulatory, economic, environmental or competitive conditions in those states could have a disproportionate effect on our overall business results. in addition, both florida and texas are located in hurricane-prone areas. in the recent past, hurricanes have had a disruptive effect on the operations of our hospitals in florida, texas, and other coastal states, and the patient populations in those states. our business activities could be harmed by a particularly active hurricane season or even a single storm. we may be subject to liabilities from claims by the irs. hca is currently contesting claims for income taxes, interest and penalties proposed by the irs for prior years aggregating approximately $776 million through december 31, 2005. the disputed items include the deductibility of a portion of the 2001 government settlement payment, the timing of recognition of certain patient service revenues in 2000 through 2002, the method for calculating the tax allowance for uncollectible accounts in 2002, and the amount of insurance expense deducted in 1999 through 2002. during february 2006, the irs began an examination of our 2003 through 2004 federal income tax returns. the irs has not determined the amount of any additional income tax, interest and penalties that it 27 table of contents may claim upon completion of this examination or any future examinations that may be initiated. see item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations irs disputes. we may be subject to liabilities from claims brought against our facilities. hca is subject to litigation relating to our business practices, including claims and legal actions by patients and others in the ordinary course of business alleging malpractice, product liability or other legal theories. see item 3, legal proceedings. many of these actions involve large claims and significant defense costs. we insure a substantial portion of our professional liability risks through a wholly-owned subsidiary. management believes our insurance coverage is sufficient to cover claims arising out of the operation of our facilities. hca wholly-owned insurance subsidiary has entered into certain reinsurance contracts, and the obligations covered by the reinsurance contracts are included in its reserves for professional liability risks, as the subsidiary remains liable to the extent that the reinsurers do not meet their obligations under the reinsurance contracts. if payments for claims exceed actuarially determined estimates, are not covered by insurance or reinsurers, if any, fail to meet their obligations, our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected. we are exposed to market risks related to changes in the market values of securities and interest rate changes hca is exposed to market risk related to changes in market values of securities. the investments in debt and equity securities of our wholly-owned insurance subsidiary were $1.419 billion and $965 million, respectively, at december 31, 2005. these investments are carried at fair value, with changes in unrealized gains and losses being recorded as adjustments to other comprehensive income. the fair value of investments is generally based on quoted market prices. if the insurance subsidiary were to experience significant declines in the fair value of its investments, this could require additional investment by us to allow the insurance subsidiary to satisfy its minimum capital requirements. at december 31, 2005, we had a net unrealized gain of $184 million on the insurance subsidiary investment securities. we are also exposed to market risk related to changes in interest rates, and periodically enter into interest rate swap agreements to manage our exposure to these fluctuations. our interest rate swap agreements involve the exchange of fixed and variable rate interest payments between two parties, based on common notional principal amounts and maturity dates. the notional amounts and interest payments in these agreements match the cash flows of the related liabilities. the notional amounts of the swap agreements represent balances used to calculate the exchange of cash flows and are not assets or liabilities of hca. any market risk or opportunity associated with these swap agreements is offset by the opposite market impact on the related debt. our credit risk related to these agreements is considered low because the swap agreements are with creditworthy financial institutions. see item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations market risk . fluctuations in operating results and other factors may result in decreases in our stock price. there is significant volatility in the market price of hca common stock. if we are unable to operate our hospitals as profitably as we have in the past, investors could sell shares of hca common stock when it becomes apparent that the expectations of the market may not be realized, resulting in a decrease in the market price of hca common stock. in addition to our operating results, the operating results of other hospital companies, changes in financial estimates or recommendations by analysts, changes in government health care programs, governmental investigations and litigation, speculation in the press or investment community, the possible effects of war, terrorist and other hostilities, adverse weather conditions, the level of seasonal illnesses, changes in general conditions in the economy or the financial markets, or other developments affecting the health care industry, could cause substantial fluctuations in the market price of our common stock. 28 table of contents we have increased leverage as a result of financing our recently completed dutch auction tender offer. in october 2005, we commenced a modified dutch auction tender offer to purchase up to $2.5 billion of our common stock. to finance the tender offer, we used approximately $600 million of cash on hand and borrowed $800 million under a $1.0 billion short term loan facility. in connection with the tender offer, we amended our existing revolving credit facility and the related senior term loan to modify the compliance levels for our required ratio of consolidated total debt to consolidated total capitalization. our total long-term debt, including amounts due within one year, was $10.475 billion at december 31, 2005. in february 2006, we issued $1.0 billion of 6.5% notes due in february 2016. the proceeds from the notes and the proceeds from the sales of hospitals were used to repay amounts under the $800 million term loan and to pay down amounts advanced under the existing revolving credit facility. the authorization permits us to repurchase additional shares in an amount up to the remainder of the $2.5 billion authorization from time to time through open market purchases, or in private or other transactions. during 2005, we repurchased 8.0 million shares of our common stock for $412 million through open market purchases. see item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources and market risk and note 8 long-term debt in the notes to consolidated financial statements for additional information on our debt obligations. we may continue to make borrowings under our existing revolving credit facility, and we have issued debt securities, from time to time, including $1.0 billion of 6.5% notes due 2016 issued in february 2006. we may issue additional debt securities in the future. our ability to make payments on our debt and fund planned capital expenditures and the operation of our business will depend on cash flow from operations, amounts available under our existing revolving credit facility and our access to public and private debt markets. our increased debt service obligations could, among other things: limit our ability to borrow money or raise capital to fund our working capital, capital expenditures and debt service, or for other purposes; increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; limit our ability to pay dividends and to obtain additional financing and limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or the industry; and require the dedication of a substantial portion of our cash flow from operating activities to the payment of principal and interest on our debt. 29 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 57 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information called for by this item is provided under the caption market risk under item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations.risk factors 21 risk factors risk factors if any of the events discussed in the following risk factors were to occur, our business, financial position, results of operations, cash flows or prospects could be materially, adversely affected. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known, or currently deemed immaterial, may also constrain our business and operations. our substantial leverage could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry, expose us to interest rate risk to the extent of our variable rate debt and prevent us from meeting our obligations. on november 17, 2006, we consummated the merger with merger sub, a wholly owned subsidiary of hercules holding, pursuant to which the investors acquired all of our outstanding shares of common stock for $51.00 per share in cash. the merger, the financing transactions related to the merger and other related transactions had a transaction value of approximately $33.0 billion and are collectively referred to in this annual report as the recapitalization. as a result of the recapitalization, our outstanding common stock is owned by hercules holding, certain members of management and other key employees, and certain other investors. our common stock is no longer registered with the sec and is no longer traded on a national securities exchange. 21 table of contents since completing the recapitalization, we are highly leveraged. as of december 31, 2006, our total indebtedness was $28.408 billion. our high degree of leverage could have important consequences, including: increasing our vulnerability to general economic and industry conditions; requiring a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, therefore reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities; exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our unhedged borrowings will be at variable rates of interest; limiting our ability to make strategic acquisitions or causing us to make nonstrategic divestitures; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product or service line development, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who are less highly leveraged. we and our subsidiaries have the ability to incur additional indebtedness in the future, subject to the restrictions contained in our senior secured credit facilities and the indentures governing our outstanding notes. if new indebtedness is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could intensify. our debt agreements contain restrictions that limit our flexibility in operating our business. our senior secured credit facilities and the indentures governing our outstanding notes contain various covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions. these covenants limit our and certain of our subsidiaries ability to, among other things: incur additional indebtedness or issue certain preferred shares; pay dividends on, repurchase or make distributions in respect of our capital stock or make other restricted payments; make certain investments; sell or transfer assets; create liens; consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and enter into certain transactions with our affiliates. under our asset-based revolving credit facility, when (and for as long as) the combined availability under our asset-based revolving credit facility and our senior secured revolving credit facility is less than a specified amount, for a certain period of time, or if a payment or bankruptcy event of default has occurred and is continuing, funds deposited into any of our depository accounts will be transferred on a daily basis into a blocked account with the administrative agent and applied to prepay loans under the asset-based revolving credit facility and to cash collateralize letters of credit issued thereunder. under our senior secured credit facilities we will be required to satisfy and maintain specified financial ratios. our ability to meet those financial ratios can be affected by events beyond our control, and there can be no assurance that we will meet those ratios. a breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under both of our senior secured credit facilities. upon the occurrence of an event of default under our senior secured credit facilities, our lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under our senior secured credit facilities to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. if we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under our senior secured credit facilities could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure each such indebtedness. we have pledged a significant portion 22 table of contents of our assets as collateral under our senior secured credit facilities and our existing senior secured notes. if any of the lenders under our senior secured credit facilities accelerate the repayment of borrowings, there can be no assurance that we will have sufficient assets to repay our senior secured credit facilities and our outstanding notes. our hospitals face competition for patients from other hospitals and health care providers. the health care business is highly competitive, and competition among hospitals and other health care providers for patients has intensified in recent years. generally, other hospitals in the local communities served by most of our hospitals provide services similar to those offered by our hospitals. in 2005, cms began making public performance data related to ten quality measures that hospitals submit in connection with their medicare reimbursement. on february 8, 2006, dra 2005 was enacted by congress and expanded the number of quality measures that must be reported to 21, beginning with discharges occurring in the third quarter of 2006. if any of our hospitals achieve poor results (or results that are lower than our competitors) on these 21 quality measures, patient volumes could decline. in addition, dra 2005 requires that cms expand the number of quality measures in future years. on november 1, 2006, cms announced a final rule that expands to 26 the number of quality measures that must be reported, beginning in the first quarter of calendar year 2007, and requires, beginning in the third quarter of calendar year 2007, that hospitals report the results of a 27-question patient perspective survey. the additional quality measures and future trends toward clinical transparency may have an unanticipated impact on our competitive position and patient volumes. in addition, the number of freestanding specialty hospitals, surgery centers and diagnostic and imaging centers in the geographic areas in which we operate has increased significantly. as a result, most of our hospitals operate in a highly competitive environment. some of the hospitals that compete with our hospitals are owned by governmental agencies or not-for-profit corporations supported by endowments, charitable contributions and/or tax revenues and can finance capital expenditures and operations on a tax-exempt basis. our hospitals are facing increasing competition from physician-owned specialty hospitals and from both our own and unaffiliated freestanding surgery centers for market share in high margin services and for quality physicians and personnel. if ambulatory surgery centers are better able to compete in this environment than our hospitals, our hospitals may experience a decline in patient volume, and we may experience a decrease in margin, even if those patients use our ambulatory surgery centers. further, if our competitors are better able to attract patients, recruit physicians, expand services or obtain favorable managed care contracts at their facilities than our hospitals and ambulatory surgery centers, we may experience an overall decline in patient volume. see item 1, business competition. section 507 of mma provided for an 18-month moratorium on the establishment of new specialty hospitals. the moratorium expired on june 8, 2005. however, hhs suspended processing new provider enrollment applications for specialty hospitals until january 2006, creating, in effect, a new moratorium on specialty hospitals. dra 2005 directed hhs to extend this enrollment suspension until the earlier of six months from the enactment of dra 2005 or the release of a report regarding physician owned specialty hospitals by hhs. on august 8, 2006, hhs issued its final report, in which it announced that it would resume processing and certifying provider enrollment applications. as a result of the moratorium being rescinded, we face additional competition from an increased number of specialty hospitals, including hospitals owned by physicians currently on staff at our hospitals. in addition, hhs announced that it will require all hospitals to disclose any physician ownership and certain financial arrangements with physicians. hhs has not announced when it will begin collecting this data, the specific data that hospitals will be required to submit or which hospitals will be required to provide information. the growth of uninsured and patient due accounts and a deterioration in the collectibility of these accounts could adversely affect our results of operations. the primary collection risks of our accounts receivable relate to the uninsured patient accounts and patient accounts for which the primary insurance carrier has paid the amounts covered by the applicable agreement, but patient responsibility amounts (deductibles and copayments) remain outstanding. the provision for doubtful accounts relates primarily to amounts due directly from patients. 23 table of contents the amount of the provision for doubtful accounts is based upon management assessment of historical writeoffs and expected net collections, business and economic conditions, trends in federal and state governmental and private employer health care coverage, the rate of growth in uninsured patient admissions and other collection indicators. at december 31, 2006, our allowance for doubtful accounts represented approximately 86% of the $3.972 billion patient due accounts receivable balance, including accounts, net of estimated contractual discounts, related to patients for which eligibility for medicaid coverage was being evaluated ( pending medicaid accounts ). for the year ended december 31, 2006, the provision for doubtful accounts increased to 10.4% of revenues compared to 9.6% of revenues in 2005. adjusting for the effect of the uninsured discount policy implemented january 1, 2005, the provision for doubtful accounts was 14.1% and 12.4% of revenues for the years ended december 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. a continuation of the trends that have resulted in an increasing proportion of accounts receivable being comprised of uninsured accounts and a deterioration in the collectibility of these accounts will adversely affect our collection of accounts receivable, cash flows and results of operations. changes in governmental interpretations may negatively impact our ability to obtain reimbursement of medicare bad debts the medicare program will reimburse 70% of bad debts related to deductibles and coinsurance for patients with medicare coverage, after the provider has made a reasonable effort to collect these amounts. on march 30, 2006, the united states district court for the western district of michigan entered a final order in battle creek health system v. thompson, which provided that reasonable collection efforts have not been satisfied as long as the medicare accounts remained with an external collection agency. the case is under appeal at the united states court of appeals for the sixth circuit. we utilize extensive in-house and external collection efforts for our accounts receivable, including deductible and coinsurance amounts owed by patients with medicare coverage. however, we utilize a secondary collection agency after in-house and primary collection agency efforts have been unsuccessful. as a result of the battle creek decision, we contacted cms and outlined our collection process and the reasons for our belief that medicare bad debts could be claimed for reimbursement after exhaustion of collection efforts at the primary collection agency, but while the accounts were still pending with the secondary collection agency. cms has responded to us consistent with the battle creek decision. we are in continued discussions with cms concerning the proper timing to claim reimbursement for medicare bad debts. we incur approximately $30 million of medicare bad debts per year that are subject to the battle creek decision. we are unable to predict the outcome of the battle creek case or cms final answer on the use of external collection agencies. we are currently evaluating possible modifications to our accounts receivable collection processes that will both provide us with reasonable collection results and comply with cms interpretation of reasonable collection efforts. changes in governmental programs may reduce our revenues. a significant portion of our patient volumes is derived from government health care programs, principally medicare and medicaid, which are highly regulated and subject to frequent and substantial changes. we derived approximately 58% of our admissions from the medicare and medicaid programs in 2006. in recent years, legislative and regulatory changes have resulted in limitations on and, in some cases, reductions in levels of payments to health care providers for certain services under these government programs. such changes may also increase our operating costs, which could reduce our profitability. effective january 1, 2007, as a result of dra 2005, reimbursements for asc overhead costs are limited to no more than the overhead costs paid to hospital outpatient departments under the medicare hospital outpatient prospective payment system for the same procedure. on august 8, 2006 cms announced proposed regulations that, if adopted, would change payment for procedures performed in an asc, effective january 1, 2008. under this proposal, asc payment groups would increase from the current nine clinically disparate payment groups to the 221 ambulatory procedure classification groups (apcs) used under the outpatient prospective payment system for these surgical services. cms estimates that the rates for procedures performed in an asc setting would equal 62% of the corresponding rates paid for the same procedures performed in an outpatient hospital setting. moreover, under the proposed regulations, if cms determines 24 table of contents that a procedure is commonly performed in a physician office, the asc reimbursement for that procedure would be limited to the reimbursement allowable under the medicare part b physician fee schedule. in addition, under this proposal, all surgical procedures, other than those that pose a significant safety risk or generally require an overnight stay, which would be listed by cms, would be payable as asc procedures. this will expand the number of procedures that medicare will pay for if performed in an asc. cms indicates in its discussion of the proposed regulations that it believes that the volumes and service mix of procedures provided in ascs would change significantly in 2008 under the revised payment system, but that cms is not able to accurately project those changes. if the proposal is adopted, more medicare procedures that are now performed in hospitals, such as ours, may be moved to ascs reducing surgical volume in our hospitals. also, more medicare procedures that are now performed in ascs, such as ours, may be moved to physicians offices. commercial third-party payers may adopt similar policies. on august 1, 2006, cms announced a final rule that refines the drg payment system. cms announced that it is considering additional changes effective in federal fiscal year 2008. we cannot predict the impact that any such changes, if finalized, would have on our revenues. future realignments in the drg system could also reduce the margins we receive for certain specialties, including cardiology and orthopedics. in fact, the greater popularity of specialty hospitals in recent years has caused cms to focus on payment levels for such specialties. any such change in the payments received for specialty services could have an adverse effect on our revenues and could require us to modify our strategy. other medicare payment changes may also affect our revenues. see item 1. business sources of revenue. drg rates are updated and drg weights are recalibrated each federal fiscal year. the index used to update the market basket gives consideration to the inflation experienced by hospitals and entities outside the health care industry in purchasing goods and services. mma, as amended by dra 2005, provides for drg increases using the full market basket if data for certain patient care quality indicators is submitted quarterly to cms, and using the market basket minus two percentage points if such data is not submitted. while we will endeavor to comply with all data submission requirements, our submissions may not be deemed timely or sufficient to entitle us to the full market basket adjustment for all of our hospitals. since states must operate with balanced budgets and since the medicaid program is often the state largest program, states can be expected to adopt or consider adopting legislation designed to reduce their medicaid expenditures. dra 2005, signed into law on february 8, 2006, includes medicaid cuts of approximately $4.8 billion over five years. in addition, proposed regulatory changes, if implemented, would reduce federal medicaid funding by an additional $12.2 billion over five years. on january 18, 2007, cms published a proposed rule entitled medicaid program; cost limits for providers operated by units of government and provisions to ensure the integrity of federal-state financial partnership. the proposed rule, if finalized, could significantly impact state medicaid programs. it is uncertain if the rule will be finalized. states have also adopted, or are considering, legislation designed to reduce coverage and program eligibility, enroll medicaid recipients in managed care programs and/or impose additional taxes on hospitals to help finance or expand the states medicaid systems. future legislation or other changes in the administration or interpretation of government health programs could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. demands of nongovernment payers may adversely affect our growth in revenues. our ability to negotiate favorable contracts with nongovernment payers, including managed care plans, significantly affects the revenues and operating results of most of our hospitals. admissions derived from managed care and other insurers accounted for approximately 36% of our admissions in 2006. nongovernment payers, including managed care payers, increasingly are demanding discounted fee structures, and the trend toward consolidation among nongovernment payers tends to increase their bargaining power over fee structures. reductions in price increases or the amounts received from managed care, commercial insurance or other payers could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. 25 table of contents our performance depends on our ability to recruit and retain quality physicians. physicians generally direct the majority of hospital admissions, and the success of our hospitals depends, therefore, in part on the number and quality of the physicians on the medical staffs of our hospitals, the admitting practices of those physicians and maintaining good relations with those physicians. physicians are generally not employees of the hospitals at which they practice and, in many of the markets that we serve, most physicians have admitting privileges at other hospitals in addition to our hospitals. such physicians may terminate their affiliation with our hospitals at any time. if we are unable to provide adequate support personnel or technologically advanced equipment and hospital facilities that meet the needs of those physicians, they may be discouraged from referring patients to our facilities, admissions may decrease and our operating performance may decline. our hospitals face competition for staffing, which may increase labor costs and reduce profitability. our operations are dependent on the efforts, abilities and experience of our management and medical support personnel, such as nurses, pharmacists and lab technicians, as well as our physicians. we compete with other health care providers in recruiting and retaining qualified management and support personnel responsible for the daily operations of each of our hospitals, including nurses and other nonphysician health care professionals. in some markets, the availability of nurses and other medical support personnel has become a significant operating issue to health care providers. this shortage may require us to continue to enhance wages and benefits to recruit and retain nurses and other medical support personnel or to hire more expensive temporary personnel. we also depend on the available labor pool of semi-skilled and unskilled employees in each of the markets in which we operate. in addition, to the extent that a significant portion of our employee base unionizes, or attempts to unionize, our labor costs could increase. if our labor costs increase, we may not be able to raise rates to offset these increased costs. because a significant percentage of our revenues consists of fixed, prospective payments, our ability to pass along increased labor costs is constrained. our failure to recruit and retain qualified management, nurses and other medical support personnel, or to control labor costs, could have a material, adverse effect on our results of operations. if we fail to comply with extensive laws and government regulations, we could suffer penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations. the health care industry is required to comply with extensive and complex laws and regulations at the federal, state and local government levels relating to, among other things: billing for services; relationships with physicians and other referral sources; adequacy of medical care; quality of medical equipment and services; qualifications of medical and support personnel; confidentiality, maintenance and security issues associated with health-related information and medical records; the screening, stabilization and transfer of individuals who have emergency medical conditions; licensure; hospital rate or budget review; operating policies and procedures; and addition of facilities and services. 26 table of contents among these laws are the anti-kickback statute, the stark law and the false claims act and similar state laws. these laws impact the relationships that we may have with physicians and other referral sources. we have a variety of financial relationships with physicians and others who either refer or influence the referral of patients to our hospitals and other health care facilities, including employment contracts, leases and professional service agreements. we also have similar relationships with physicians and facilities to which patients are referred from our facilities from time to time. we also provide financial incentives, including minimum revenue guarantees, to recruit physicians into the communities served by our hospitals. the oig has enacted safe harbor regulations that outline practices that are deemed protected from prosecution under the anti-kickback statute. while we endeavor to comply with the applicable safe harbors, certain of our current arrangements, including joint ventures and financial relationships with physicians and other referral sources and persons and entities to which we refer patients, do not qualify for safe harbor protection. failure to qualify for a safe harbor does not mean that the arrangement necessarily violates the anti-kickback statute but may subject the arrangement to greater scrutiny; however, we cannot assure you that practices that are outside of a safe harbor will not be found to violate the anti-kickback statute. allegations of violations of the anti-kickback statute may also be brought under the federal civil monetary penalty law, which requires a lower burden of proof than other fraud and abuse laws, including the anti-kickback statute. our financial relationships with referring physicians and their immediate family members must comply with the stark law by meeting an exception. we attempt to structure our relationships to meet an exception to the stark law, but the regulations implementing the exceptions are detailed and complex, and we cannot assure you that every relationship complies fully with the stark law. unlike the anti-kickback statute, failure to meet an exception under the stark law results in a violation of the stark law, even if such violation is technical in nature. additionally, if we violate the anti-kickback statute or stark law, or if we improperly bill for our services, we may be found to violate the false claims act, either under a suit brought by the government or by a private person under a qui tam , or whistleblower, suit. if we fail to comply with the anti-kickback statute, the stark law, the false claims act or other applicable laws and regulations, or if we fail to maintain an effective corporate compliance program, we could be subjected to liabilities, including civil penalties (including the loss of our licenses to operate one or more facilities), exclusion of one or more facilities from participation in the medicare, medicaid and other federal and state health care programs and, for violations of certain laws and regulations, criminal penalties. see item 1, business regulation and other factors. because many of these laws and their implementation regulations are relatively new, we do not always have the benefit of significant regulatory or judicial interpretation of these laws and regulations. in the future, different interpretations or enforcement of these laws and regulations could subject our current or past practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality or could require us to make changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel, services, capital expenditure programs and operating expenses. a determination that we have violated these laws, or the public announcement that we are being investigated for possible violations of these laws, could have a material, adverse effect our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects, and our business reputation could suffer significantly. in addition, other legislation or regulations at the federal or state level may be adopted that adversely affect our business. we have been the subject of governmental investigations, claims and litigation commencing in 1997, we became aware that we were the subject of governmental investigations and litigation relating to our business practices. the investigations were concluded through a series of agreements executed in 2000 and 2003. in january 2001, we entered into an eight-year corporate integrity agreement ( cia ) with the oig. under the cia, we have numerous affirmative obligations, including the requirement that we report potential violations of applicable federal health care laws and regulations and have, pursuant to this obligation, reported a number of potential violations of the stark law, the anti-kickback statute, emtala and other laws, most of which we consider to be nonviolations or technical violations. although no government agency has taken any adverse action related to the cia disclosures, the government could 27 table of contents determine that our reporting and/or our resolution of reported issues have been inadequate. if we are found to be in violation of the cia or any applicable health care laws or regulations, we could be subject to repayment requirements, substantial monetary fines, civil penalties, exclusion from participation in the medicare and medicaid and other federal and state health care programs, and, for violations of certain laws and regulations, criminal penalties. any such sanctions or expenses could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or liquidity. in september 2005, we received a subpoena from the office of the united states attorney for the southern district of new york seeking the production of documents. also in september 2005, we were informed that the sec had issued a formal order of investigation. both the subpoena and the formal order of investigation relate to trading in our securities. we are cooperating fully with these investigations. subsequently, we and certain of our executive officers and directors were named in various federal securities law class actions and several shareholders have filed derivative lawsuits purportedly on behalf of the company. additionally, a former employee filed a complaint against certain of our executive officers pursuant to the employee retirement income security act, and we have been served with a shareholder demand letter addressed to our board of directors. we cannot predict the results of the investigations or any related lawsuits or the effect that findings in such investigations or lawsuits adverse to us may have on us. we have, however, reached an agreement in principle for the settlement of the derivative lawsuits. on july 24, 2006, we announced that we had entered into the merger agreement. in connection with the merger, we are aware of eight asserted class action lawsuits related to the merger filed against us, certain of our executive officers, our directors and the sponsors, and one lawsuit filed against us and one of our affiliates seeking enforcement of contractual obligations allegedly arising from the merger. certain of these lawsuits, though not all, are the subject of an agreement in principle to settle. additional lawsuits pertaining to the merger could be filed in the future. these proceedings are described in greater detail under item 3, legal proceedings. health care companies are subject to numerous investigations by various governmental agencies. further, under the federal false claims act, private parties have the right to bring qui tam , or whistleblower, suits against companies that submit false claims for payments to the government. some states have adopted similar state whistleblower and false claims provisions. from time to time, companies doing business under federal health care programs may be contacted by various governmental agencies in connection with a government investigation either brought by the government or by a private person under a qui tam action. because of the confidential nature of some government investigations or a confidential seal under the federal false claims act, we do not always know the particulars of the allegations or concerns at the time the government notifies us that an investigation is proceeding. certain of our individual facilities have received, and other facilities from time to time may receive, government inquiries from federal and state agencies. depending on whether the underlying conduct in these or future inquiries or investigations could be considered systemic, their resolution could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. from time to time, governmental agencies and their agents, such as the medicare administrative contractors, fiscal intermediaries and carriers, as well as the oig, conduct audits of our health care operations. private payers may conduct similar post-payment audits, and we also perform internal audits and monitoring. depending on the nature of the conduct found in such audits and whether the underlying conduct could be considered systemic, the resolution of these audits could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. controls designed to reduce inpatient services may reduce our revenues. controls imposed by medicare and commercial third-party payers designed to reduce admissions and lengths of stay, commonly referred to as utilization review, have affected and are expected to continue to affect our facilities. utilization review entails the review of the admission and course of treatment of a patient by health plans. inpatient utilization, average lengths of stay and occupancy rates continue to be negatively affected by payer-required preadmission authorization and utilization review and by payer pressure to maximize outpatient and alternative health care delivery services for less acutely ill patients. efforts to impose 28 table of contents more stringent cost controls are expected to continue. although we are unable to predict the effect these changes will have on our operations, significant limits on the scope of services reimbursed and on reimbursement rates and fees could have a material, adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. our operations could be impaired by a failure of our information systems. any system failure that causes an interruption in service or availability of our systems could adversely affect operations or delay the collection of revenue. even though we have implemented network security measures, our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering. the occurrence of any of these events could result in interruptions, delays, the loss or corruption of data, or cessations in the availability of systems, all of which could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations and harm our business reputation. the performance of our sophisticated information technology and systems is critical to our business operations. in addition to our shared services initiatives, our information systems are essential to a number of critical areas of our operations, including: accounting and financial reporting; billing and collecting accounts; coding and compliance; clinical systems; medical records and document storage; inventory management; and negotiating, pricing and administering managed care contracts and supply contracts. we are in the process of implementing projects to replace our payroll and human resources information systems. management estimates that the payroll and human resources system projects will require total expenditures of approximately $333 million to develop and install. at december 31, 2006, project-to -date costs incurred were $295 million ($160 million of the costs incurred have been capitalized and $135 million have been expensed). management expects that the system development, testing, data conversion and installation will continue through 2007. state efforts to regulate the construction or expansion of hospitals could impair our ability to operate and expand our operations. some states, particularly in the eastern part of the country, require health care providers to obtain prior approval, known as a certificate of need, for the purchase, construction or expansion of health care facilities, to make certain capital expenditures or to make changes in services or bed capacity. in giving approval, these states consider the need for additional or expanded health care facilities or services. we currently operate hospitals in a number of states with certificate of need laws. the failure to obtain any requested certificate of need could impair our ability to operate or expand operations. any such failure could, in turn, adversely affect our ability to attract patients to our hospitals and grow our revenues, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. our facilities are heavily concentrated in florida and texas, which makes us sensitive to regulatory, economic, environmental and competitive changes in those states. we operated 173 hospitals at december 31, 2006, and 73 of those hospitals are located in florida and texas. our florida and texas facilities combined revenues represented approximately 51% of our consolidated revenues for the year ended december 31, 2006. this concentration makes us particularly sensitive to regulatory, economic, environmental and competition changes in those states. any material change in the 29 table of contents current payment programs or regulatory, economic, environmental or competitive conditions in those states could have a disproportionate effect on our overall business results. in addition, our hospitals in florida and texas and other areas across the gulf coast are located in hurricane-prone areas. in the recent past, hurricanes have had a disruptive effect on the operations of our hospitals in florida, texas and other coastal states, and the patient populations in those states. our business activities could be harmed by a particularly active hurricane season or even a single storm. in addition, the premiums to renew our property insurance policy for 2006 and 2007 increased significantly over premiums incurred in 2005. our new policy also includes an increase in the stated deductible and we were not able to obtain coverage in the amounts we have had under our policies prior to 2006. as a result of such increases in premiums and deductibles, we expect that our cash flows and profitability will be adversely affected. in addition, the property insurance we obtain may not be adequate to cover losses from future hurricanes or other natural disasters. we may be subject to liabilities from claims by the irs. we are currently contesting claims for income taxes, interest and penalties proposed by the irs for prior years aggregating approximately $678 million through december 31, 2006. the disputed items include the deductibility of a portion of the 2001 government settlement payment, the timing of recognition of certain patient service revenues in 2000 through 2002, the method for calculating the tax allowance for uncollectible accounts in 2002 and the amount of insurance expense deducted in 1999 through 2002. during 2006, the irs began an examination of our 2003 through 2004 federal income tax returns. the irs has not determined the amount of any additional income tax, interest and penalties that it may claim upon completion of this examination or any future examinations that may be initiated. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations pending irs disputes. we may be subject to liabilities from claims brought against our facilities. we are subject to litigation relating to our business practices, including claims and legal actions by patients and others in the ordinary course of business alleging malpractice, product liability or other legal theories. see item 3, legal proceedings. many of these actions involve large claims and significant defense costs. we insure a substantial portion of our professional liability risks through a wholly-owned subsidiary. management believes our insurance coverage is sufficient to cover claims arising out of the operation of our facilities. our wholly-owned insurance subsidiary has entered into certain reinsurance contracts, and the obligations covered by the reinsurance contracts are included in its reserves for professional liability risks, as the subsidiary remains liable to the extent that the reinsurers do not meet their obligations under the reinsurance contracts. if payments for claims exceed actuarially determined estimates, are not covered by insurance or reinsurers, if any, fail to meet their obligations, our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected. we are exposed to market risks related to changes in the market values of securities and interest rate changes. we are exposed to market risk related to changes in market values of securities. the investments in debt and equity securities of our wholly-owned insurance subsidiary were $2.129 billion and $14 million, respectively, at december 31, 2006. these investments are carried at fair value, with changes in unrealized gains and losses being recorded as adjustments to other comprehensive income. the fair value of investments is generally based on quoted market prices. at december 31, 2006, we had a net unrealized gain of $25 million on the insurance subsidiary investment securities. we are also exposed to market risk related to changes in interest rates and periodically enter into interest rate swap agreements to manage our exposure to these fluctuations. our interest rate swap agreements involve the exchange of fixed and variable rate interest payments between two parties, based on common notional principal amounts and maturity dates. the net interest payments based on the notional amounts in these agreements generally match the timing of the cash flows of the related liabilities. the notional amounts of the 30 table of contents swap agreements represent balances used to calculate the exchange of cash flows and are not assets or liabilities of hca. any market risk or opportunity associated with these swap agreements is offset by the opposite market impact on the related debt. see item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. since the merger, the investors control us and may have conflicts of interest with us in the future. the investors indirectly own approximately 97.5% of our capital stock due to the recapitalization. as a result, the investors have control over our decisions to enter into any corporate transaction and have the ability to prevent any transaction that requires the approval of shareholders. for example, the investors could cause us to make acquisitions that increase the amount of our indebtedness or sell assets. additionally, the sponsors are in the business of making investments in companies and may acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. one or more of the sponsors may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. so long as investment funds associated with or designated by the sponsors continue to indirectly own a significant amount of the outstanding shares of our common stock, even if such amount is less than 50%, the sponsors will continue to be able to strongly influence or effectively control our decisions. 31 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 60risk factors 20 risk factors risk factors if any of the events discussed in the following risk factors were to occur, our business, financial position, results of operations, cash flows or prospects could be materially, adversely affected. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known, or currently deemed immaterial, may also constrain our business and operations. our substantial leverage could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry, expose us to interest rate risk to the extent of our variable rate debt and prevent us from meeting our obligations. since completing the recapitalization, we are highly leveraged. as of december 31, 2007, our total indebtedness was $27.308 billion. our high degree of leverage could have important consequences, including: increasing our vulnerability to general economic and industry conditions; requiring a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, therefore reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities; exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our unhedged borrowings are at variable rates of interest; limiting our ability to make strategic acquisitions or causing us to make nonstrategic divestitures; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product or service line development, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who are less highly leveraged. we and our subsidiaries have the ability to incur additional indebtedness in the future, subject to the restrictions contained in our senior secured credit facilities and the indentures governing our outstanding notes. if new indebtedness is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could intensify. our debt agreements contain restrictions that limit our flexibility in operating our business. our senior secured credit facilities and the indentures governing our outstanding notes contain various covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions. these covenants limit our and certain of our subsidiaries ability to, among other things: incur additional indebtedness or issue certain preferred shares; pay dividends on, repurchase or make distributions in respect of our capital stock or make other restricted payments; make certain investments; sell or transfer assets; create liens; 20 table of contents consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and enter into certain transactions with our affiliates. under our asset-based revolving credit facility, when (and for as long as) the combined availability under our asset-based revolving credit facility and our senior secured revolving credit facility is less than a specified amount, for a certain period of time, or if a payment or bankruptcy event of default has occurred and is continuing, funds deposited into any of our depository accounts will be transferred on a daily basis into a blocked account with the administrative agent and applied to prepay loans under the asset-based revolving credit facility and to cash collateralize letters of credit issued thereunder. under our senior secured credit facilities we are required to satisfy and maintain specified financial ratios. our ability to meet those financial ratios can be affected by events beyond our control, and there can be no assurance that we will continue to meet those ratios. a breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under both of our senior secured credit facilities. upon the occurrence of an event of default under our senior secured credit facilities, our lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under our senior secured credit facilities to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. if we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under our senior secured credit facilities could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure each such indebtedness. we have pledged a significant portion of our assets as collateral under our senior secured credit facilities and our existing senior secured notes. if any of the lenders under our senior secured credit facilities accelerate the repayment of borrowings, there can be no assurance that we will have sufficient assets to repay our senior secured credit facilities and our outstanding notes. our hospitals face competition for patients from other hospitals and health care providers. the health care business is highly competitive, and competition among hospitals and other health care providers for patients has intensified in recent years. generally, other hospitals in the local communities served by most of our hospitals provide services similar to those offered by our hospitals. in 2005, cms began making public performance data related to 10 quality measures that hospitals submit in connection with their medicare reimbursement. on february 8, 2006, the federal dra 2005 was enacted by congress to expand and provide for the future expansion of the number of quality measures that must be reported. for federal fiscal year 2008, cms requires hospitals to report 27 measures of inpatient quality of care to avoid a 2% point reduction in their market basket update. for the federal fiscal year 2009 payment update, cms will require hospitals to report 30 inpatient quality measures to avoid a 2% point reduction in their market basket update. cms is requiring that seven measures of outpatient quality of care be reported during federal fiscal year 2008 to receive the full market basket update for outpatient services in federal fiscal year 2009. the additional quality measures and future trends toward clinical transparency may have an unanticipated impact on our competitive position and patient volumes. if any of our hospitals achieve poor results (or results that are lower than our competitors) on these quality measures, patient volumes could decline. in addition, the number of freestanding specialty hospitals, surgery centers and diagnostic and imaging centers in the geographic areas in which we operate has increased significantly. as a result, most of our hospitals operate in a highly competitive environment. some of the hospitals that compete with our hospitals are owned by governmental agencies or not-for-profit corporations supported by endowments, charitable contributions and/or tax revenues and can finance capital expenditures and operations on a tax-exempt basis. our hospitals are facing increasing competition from physician-owned specialty hospitals and from both our own and unaffiliated freestanding surgery centers for market share in high margin services and for quality physicians and personnel. also, we anticipate that the number of physician-owned specialty hospitals may increase as hhs has ended a moratorium on the medicare enrollment of such hospitals. if ambulatory surgery centers are better able to compete in this environment than our hospitals, our hospitals may experience a decline in patient volume, and we may experience a decrease in margin, even if those patients use our ambulatory surgery centers. further, if our competitors are better able to attract patients, recruit physicians, expand services or obtain favorable managed care contracts at their facilities than our hospitals and ambulatory surgery centers, we may experience an overall decline in patient volume. see item 1, business competition. 21 table of contents the growth of uninsured and patient due accounts and a deterioration in the collectibility of these accounts could adversely affect our results of operations. the primary collection risks of our accounts receivable relate to the uninsured patient accounts and patient accounts for which the primary insurance carrier has paid the amounts covered by the applicable agreement, but patient responsibility amounts (deductibles and copayments) remain outstanding. the provision for doubtful accounts relates primarily to amounts due directly from patients. the amount of the provision for doubtful accounts is based upon management assessment of historical writeoffs and expected net collections, business and economic conditions, trends in federal and state governmental and private employer health care coverage, the rate of growth in uninsured patient admissions and other collection indicators. at december 31, 2007, our allowance for doubtful accounts represented approximately 89% of the $4.825 billion patient due accounts receivable balance. for the year ended december 31, 2007, the provision for doubtful accounts increased to 11.7% of revenues compared to 10.4% of revenues in 2006. a continuation of the trends that have resulted in an increasing proportion of accounts receivable being comprised of uninsured accounts and a deterioration in the collectibility of these accounts will adversely affect our collection of accounts receivable, cash flows and results of operations. changes in governmental and judicial interpretations may negatively impact our ability to obtain reimbursement of medicare bad debts the medicare program will reimburse 70% of bad debts related to deductibles and coinsurance for patients with medicare coverage, after the provider has made a reasonable effort to collect these amounts. on march 30, 2006, the united states district court for the western district of michigan entered a final order in battle creek health system v. thompson, which provided that reasonable collection efforts have not been satisfied as long as the medicare accounts remained with an external collection agency. on appeal, the united states court of appeals for the sixth circuit upheld the lower court decision. we incur substantial amounts of medicare bad debts every year that could be subjected to the battle creek decision. we utilize extensive in-house and external collection efforts for our accounts receivable, including deductible and coinsurance amounts owed by patients with medicare coverage. we utilize a secondary collection agency after in-house and primary collection agency efforts have been unsuccessful. as of august 1, 2007, we modified our accounts receivable collection processes to provide us with reasonable collection results and comply with cms interpretation of reasonable collection efforts. possible future changes in judicial and administrative interpretations of law and regulations governing medicare could disrupt our collections processes, increase our costs or otherwise adversely affect our business and results of operations. changes in governmental programs may reduce our revenues. a significant portion of our patient volumes is derived from government health care programs, principally medicare and medicaid, which are highly regulated and subject to frequent and substantial changes. we derived approximately 57% of our admissions from the medicare and medicaid programs in 2007. in recent years, legislative and regulatory changes have resulted in limitations on and, in some cases, reductions in levels of payments to health care providers for certain services under these government programs. possible future changes in the medicare, medicaid, and other state programs, including medicaid supplemental payments pursuant to upper payment limit programs, may impact reimbursements to health care providers and insurers. such changes may also increase our operating costs, which could reduce our profitability. effective january 1, 2007, as a result of the federal dra 2005, reimbursements for asc overhead costs were limited to no more than the overhead costs paid to hospital outpatient departments under the medicare hospital outpatient pps for the same procedure. on august 2, 2007, cms issued final regulations that changed payments for procedures performed in an asc. effective january 1, 2008, asc payment groups increased from nine clinically disparate payment groups to an extensive list of covered surgical procedures among the apcs used under the outpatient pps for these surgical services. cms estimates that the payment rates for procedures performed in an asc setting equal 65% of the corresponding rates paid for the same procedures performed in an outpatient hospital setting. moreover, if cms determines that a procedure is commonly performed in a physician office, the asc reimbursement for that procedure is limited to the reimbursement allowable under the medicare part b physician 22 table of contents fee schedule, with limited exceptions. in addition, all surgical procedures, other than those that pose a significant safety risk or generally require an overnight stay, are payable as asc procedures. this has expanded the number of procedures that medicare pays for if performed in an asc. because the new payment system has a significant impact on payments for certain procedures, the final rule establishes a four-year transition period for implementing the revised payment rates. more medicare procedures that are now performed in hospitals, such as ours, may be moved to ascs, reducing surgical volume in our hospitals. also, more medicare procedures that are now performed in ascs, such as ours, may be moved to physicians offices. commercial third-party payers may adopt similar policies. on august 22, 2007, cms issued a final rule for federal fiscal year 2008 for hospital inpatient pps. this rule adopts a two-year implementation of ms-drgs, a severity-adjusted drg system. this change represents a refinement to the existing drg system, and its impact on our revenues has not been significant. realignments in the drg system could impact the margins we receive for certain services. this rule provides for a 3.3% market basket update for hospitals that submit certain quality patient care indicators and a 1.3% update for hospitals that do not submit this data. while we will endeavor to comply with all quality data submission requirements, our submissions may not be deemed timely or sufficient to entitle us to the full market basket adjustment for all our hospitals. medicare payments to hospitals in federal fiscal year 2008 will be reduced by 0.6% to eliminate what cms estimates will be the effect of coding or classification changes as a result of hospitals implementing the ms-drg system. this documentation and coding adjustment will increase to 0.9% for federal fiscal year 2009. however, congress has given cms the ability to retrospectively determine if the documentation and coding adjustment levels for federal fiscal years 2008 and 2009 were adequate to account for changes in payments not related to changes in case mix. if the levels are found to have been inadequate, cms can impose an adjustment to payments for federal fiscal years 2010, 2011 and 2012. this evaluation of changes in case-mix based on actual claims data may yield a higher documentation and coding adjustment thereby potentially reducing our revenues and impacting our results of operations in ways that cannot be quantified at this time. additionally, medicare payments to hospitals are subject to a number of other adjustments, and the actual impact on payments to specific hospitals may vary. in some cases, commercial third-party payers and other payers such as some state medicaid programs rely on all or portions of the medicare drg system to determine payment rates. the change from traditional medicare drgs to ms-drgs could adversely impact those payment rates if any other payers adopt ms-drgs. since states must operate with balanced budgets and since the medicaid program is often the state largest program, states can be expected to adopt or consider adopting legislation designed to reduce their medicaid expenditures. dra 2005 includes medicaid cuts of approximately $4.8 billion over five years. on may 29, 2007, cms published a final rule entitled medicaid program; cost limit for providers operated by units of government and provisions to ensure the integrity of federal-state financial partnership. a moratorium was placed on this rule, delaying its implementation until 2008. however, when the moratorium expires, this final rule could significantly impact state medicaid programs. in its proposed form, this rule was expected to reduce federal medicaid funding by $12.2 billion over five years. as a result of the moratorium on implementing the final rule, the impact of the final rule has not been quantified. states have also adopted, or are considering, legislation designed to reduce coverage and program eligibility, enroll medicaid recipients in managed care programs and/or impose additional taxes on hospitals to help finance or expand the states medicaid systems. future legislation or other changes in the administration or interpretation of government health programs could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. demands of nongovernment payers may adversely affect our growth in revenues. our ability to negotiate favorable contracts with nongovernment payers, including managed care plans, significantly affects the revenues and operating results of most of our hospitals. admissions derived from managed care and other insurers accounted for approximately 37% of our admissions in 2007. nongovernment payers, including managed care payers, increasingly are demanding discounted fee structures, and the trend toward consolidation among nongovernment payers tends to increase their bargaining power over fee structures. reductions in price increases or the amounts received from managed care, commercial insurance or other payers could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. 23 table of contents if we are unable to retain and negotiate favorable contracts with managed care plans, our revenues may be reduced. our ability to obtain favorable contracts with health maintenance organizations, preferred provider organizations and other managed care plans significantly affects the revenues and operating results of our facilities. revenues derived from these entities and other insurers accounted for 53% of our patient revenues for each of the years ended december 31, 2007 and 2006. our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to retain and renew our managed care contracts and enter into new managed care contracts on terms favorable to us. other health care providers may impact our ability to enter into managed care contracts or negotiate increases in our reimbursement and other favorable terms and conditions. for example, some of our competitors may negotiate exclusivity provisions with managed care plans or otherwise restrict the ability of managed care companies to contract with us. if we are unable to retain and negotiate favorable contracts with managed care plans, our revenues may be reduced. our performance depends on our ability to recruit and retain quality physicians. physicians generally direct the majority of hospital admissions, and the success of our hospitals depends, therefore, in part on the number and quality of the physicians on the medical staffs of our hospitals, the admitting practices of those physicians and maintaining good relations with those physicians. physicians are generally not employees of the hospitals at which they practice and, in many of the markets that we serve, most physicians have admitting privileges at other hospitals in addition to our hospitals. such physicians may terminate their affiliation with our hospitals at any time. if we are unable to provide adequate support personnel or technologically advanced equipment and hospital facilities that meet the needs of those physicians, they may be discouraged from referring patients to our facilities, admissions may decrease and our operating performance may decline. our hospitals face competition for staffing, which may increase labor costs and reduce profitability. our operations are dependent on the efforts, abilities and experience of our management and medical support personnel, such as nurses, pharmacists and lab technicians, as well as our physicians. we compete with other health care providers in recruiting and retaining qualified management and support personnel responsible for the daily operations of each of our hospitals, including nurses and other nonphysician health care professionals. in some markets, the availability of nurses and other medical support personnel has become a significant operating issue to health care providers. we may be required to continue to enhance wages and benefits to recruit and retain nurses and other medical support personnel or to hire more expensive temporary or contract personnel. we also depend on the available labor pool of semi-skilled and unskilled employees in each of the markets in which we operate. as the competition increases to hire more people from labor pools that are not growing at a rate sufficient to meet demand, our labor costs could increase. additionally, to the extent that a significant portion of our employee base unionizes, or attempts to unionize, our costs could increase. if our costs increase, we may not be able to raise rates to offset these increased costs. because a significant percentage of our revenues consists of fixed, prospective payments, our ability to pass along increased labor costs is constrained. our failure to recruit and retain qualified management, nurses and other medical support personnel, or to control labor costs, could have a material, adverse effect on our results of operations. if we fail to comply with extensive laws and government regulations, we could suffer penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations. the health care industry is required to comply with extensive and complex laws and regulations at the federal, state and local government levels relating to, among other things: billing for services; relationships with physicians and other referral sources; adequacy of medical care; quality of medical equipment and services; qualifications of medical and support personnel; 24 table of contents confidentiality, maintenance and security issues associated with health-related information and medical records; the screening, stabilization and transfer of individuals who have emergency medical conditions; licensure and certification; hospital rate or budget review; operating policies and procedures; and addition of facilities and services. among these laws are the anti-kickback statute, the stark law and the false claims act and similar state laws. these laws impact the relationships that we may have with physicians and other referral sources. we have a variety of financial relationships with physicians and others who either refer or influence the referral of patients to our hospitals and other health care facilities, including employment contracts, leases and professional service agreements. we also have similar relationships with physicians and facilities to which patients are referred from our facilities. we also provide financial incentives, including minimum revenue guarantees, to recruit physicians into the communities served by our hospitals. the oig has enacted safe harbor regulations that outline practices that are deemed protected from prosecution under the anti-kickback statute. while we endeavor to comply with the applicable safe harbors, certain of our current arrangements, including joint ventures and financial relationships with physicians and other referral sources and persons and entities to which we refer patients, do not qualify for safe harbor protection. failure to qualify for a safe harbor does not mean that the arrangement necessarily violates the anti-kickback statute, but may subject the arrangement to greater scrutiny; however, we cannot assure you that practices that are outside of a safe harbor will not be found to violate the anti-kickback statute. allegations of violations of the anti-kickback statute may also be brought under the federal civil monetary penalty law, which requires a lower burden of proof than other fraud and abuse laws, including the anti-kickback statute. our financial relationships with referring physicians and their immediate family members must comply with the stark law by meeting an exception. we attempt to structure our relationships to meet an exception to the stark law, but the regulations implementing the exceptions are detailed and complex, and we cannot assure that every relationship complies fully with the stark law. unlike the anti-kickback statute, failure to meet an exception under the stark law results in a violation of the stark law, even if such violation is technical in nature. additionally, if we violate the anti-kickback statute or stark law, or if we improperly bill for our services, we may be found to violate the false claims act, either under a suit brought by the government or by a private person under a qui tam , or whistleblower, suit. if we fail to comply with the anti-kickback statute, the stark law, the false claims act or other applicable laws and regulations, or if we fail to maintain an effective corporate compliance program, we could be subjected to liabilities, including civil penalties (including the loss of our licenses to operate one or more facilities), exclusion of one or more facilities from participation in the medicare, medicaid and other federal and state health care programs and, for violations of certain laws and regulations, criminal penalties. see item 1, business regulation and other factors. because many of these laws and their implementation regulations are relatively new, we do not always have the benefit of significant regulatory or judicial interpretation of these laws and regulations. in the future, different interpretations or enforcement of these laws and regulations could subject our current or past practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality or could require us to make changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel, services, capital expenditure programs and operating expenses. a determination that we have violated these laws, or the public announcement that we are being investigated for possible violations of these laws, could have a material, adverse effect our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects, and our business reputation could suffer significantly. in addition, other legislation or regulations at the federal or state level may be adopted that adversely affect our business. cms has announced its intent to require 500 hospitals to respond to the dfrr and thereby disclose certain financial relationships between such hospitals and physicians. the timing and format of the dfrr are not yet 25 table of contents known. hhs has indicated it intends to use the dfrr to monitor compliance with the stark law, and hhs may share the information with other government agencies. cms has indicated that responding hospitals will have a limited amount of time to compile a significant amount of information relating to their financial relationships with physicians. depending on the final format of the dfrr, responding hospitals may be subject to substantial penalties as a result of enforcement actions brought by government agencies and whistleblowers acting pursuant to the false claims act and similar state laws, based on such allegations as failure to respond within required deadlines, that the response is inaccurate or contains incomplete information, or that the response indicates a potential violation of the stark law or other requirements. any such investigation, enforcement action, or whistleblower allegation could materially adversely affect the results of our operations. we have been the subject of governmental investigations, claims and litigation commencing in 1997, we became aware that we were the subject of governmental investigations and litigation relating to our business practices. the investigations were concluded through a series of agreements executed in 2000 and 2003. in january 2001, we entered into an eight-year corporate integrity agreement ( cia ) with the oig. under the cia, we have numerous affirmative obligations, including the requirement that we report potential violations of applicable federal health care laws and regulations and have, pursuant to this obligation, reported a number of potential violations of the stark law, the anti-kickback statute, the emergency medical treatment and active labor act ( emtala ) and other laws, most of which we consider to be nonviolations or technical violations. the government could determine that our reporting and/or our resolution of reported issues have been inadequate. if we are found to be in violation of the cia or any applicable health care laws or regulations, we could be subject to repayment requirements, substantial monetary fines, civil penalties, exclusion from participation in the medicare and medicaid and other federal and state health care programs, and, for violations of certain laws and regulations, criminal penalties. any such sanctions or expenses could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or liquidity. health care companies are subject to numerous investigations by various governmental agencies. further, under the federal false claims act, private parties have the right to bring qui tam , or whistleblower, suits against companies that submit false claims for payments to the government. some states have adopted similar state whistleblower and false claims provisions. companies doing business under federal health care programs may be contacted by various governmental agencies in connection with a government investigation either brought by the government or by a private person under a qui tam action. because of the confidential nature of some government investigations or a confidential seal under the federal false claims act, we do not always know the particulars of the allegations or concerns at the time the government notifies us that an investigation is proceeding. certain of our individual facilities have received, and other facilities may receive, government inquiries from federal and state agencies. depending on whether the underlying conduct in these or future inquiries or investigations could be considered systemic, their resolution could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. governmental agencies and their agents, such as the medicare administrative contractors, fiscal intermediaries and carriers, as well as the oig, conduct audits of our health care operations. private payers may conduct similar post-payment audits, and we also perform internal audits and monitoring. depending on the nature of the conduct found in such audits and whether the underlying conduct could be considered systemic, the resolution of these audits could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. controls designed to reduce inpatient services may reduce our revenues. controls imposed by medicare, managed medicare, medicaid, managed medicaid and commercial third-party payers designed to reduce admissions and lengths of stay, commonly referred to as utilization review, have affected and are expected to continue to affect our facilities. utilization review entails the review of the admission and course of treatment of a patient by health plans. inpatient utilization, average lengths of stay and occupancy rates continue to be negatively affected by payer-required preadmission authorization and utilization review and by payer pressure to maximize outpatient and alternative health care delivery services for less acutely ill patients. efforts to impose more stringent cost controls are expected to continue. although we are unable to predict the effect these changes will have on our operations, significant limits on the scope of services reimbursed and on 26 table of contents reimbursement rates and fees could have a material, adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. our operations could be impaired by a failure of our information systems. any system failure that causes an interruption in service or availability of our systems could adversely affect operations or delay the collection of revenue. even though we have implemented network security measures, our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering. the occurrence of any of these events could result in interruptions, delays, the loss or corruption of data, or cessations in the availability of systems, all of which could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations and harm our business reputation. the performance of our sophisticated information technology and systems is critical to our business operations. in addition to our shared services initiatives, our information systems are essential to a number of critical areas of our operations, including: accounting and financial reporting; billing and collecting accounts; coding and compliance; clinical systems; medical records and document storage; inventory management; and negotiating, pricing and administering managed care contracts and supply contracts. state efforts to regulate the construction or expansion of health care facilities could impair our ability to operate and expand our operations. some states, particularly in the eastern part of the country, require health care providers to obtain prior approval, known as a certificate of need, for the purchase, construction or expansion of health care facilities, to make certain capital expenditures or to make changes in services or bed capacity. in giving approval, these states consider the need for additional or expanded health care facilities or services. we currently operate health care facilities in a number of states with certificate of need laws. the failure to obtain any requested certificate of need could impair our ability to operate or expand operations. any such failure could, in turn, adversely affect our ability to attract patients to our facilities and grow our revenues, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. our facilities are heavily concentrated in florida and texas, which makes us sensitive to regulatory, economic, environmental and competitive conditions and changes in those states. we operated 169 hospitals at december 31, 2007, and 72 of those hospitals are located in florida and texas. our florida and texas facilities combined revenues represented approximately 51% of our consolidated revenues for the year ended december 31, 2007. this concentration makes us particularly sensitive to regulatory, economic, environmental and competitive conditions and changes in those states. any material change in the current payment programs or regulatory, economic, environmental or competitive conditions in those states could have a disproportionate effect on our overall business results. in addition, our hospitals in florida and texas and other areas across the gulf coast are located in hurricane-prone areas. in the recent past, hurricanes have had a disruptive effect on the operations of our hospitals in florida, texas and other coastal states, and the patient populations in those states. our business activities could be harmed by a particularly active hurricane season or even a single storm. in addition, the premiums to renew our property insurance policy for 2006 and 2007 increased significantly over premiums incurred in 2005. our current policy also includes an increase in the stated deductible and we were not able to obtain coverage in the amounts we have had under our policies prior to 2006. as a result of such increases in deductibles, we expect that our cash flows and 27 table of contents profitability may be adversely affected. in addition, the property insurance we obtain may not be adequate to cover losses from future hurricanes or other natural disasters. we may be subject to liabilities from claims by the irs. we are currently contesting before the appeals division of the internal revenue service (the irs ) certain claimed deficiencies and adjustments proposed by the irs in connection with its examination of the 2001 and 2002 federal income tax returns for hca and 15 affiliates that are treated as partnerships for federal income tax purposes ( affiliated partnerships ). we expect the irs will complete its examination of the 2003 and 2004 federal income tax returns for hca and 19 affiliated partnerships during the first quarter of 2008 and intend to contest certain claimed deficiencies and adjustments proposed by the irs in connection with these audits before the irs appeals division. the disputed items pending before the irs appeals division for 2001 and 2002, or proposed by the irs examination division for 2003 and 2004, include the deductibility of a portion of the 2001 and 2003 government settlement payments, the timing of recognition of certain patient service revenues in 2001 through 2004, the method for calculating the tax allowance for doubtful accounts in 2002 through 2004, and the amount of insurance expense deducted in 2001 and 2002. the irs began an audit of the 2005 and 2006 federal income tax returns for hca during the first quarter of 2008. we expect the irs will open examinations of the 2005 and 2006 federal income tax for returns for one or more affiliated partnerships during 2008. we may be subject to liabilities from claims brought against our facilities. we are subject to litigation relating to our business practices, including claims and legal actions by patients and others in the ordinary course of business alleging malpractice, product liability or other legal theories. see item 3, legal proceedings. many of these actions involve large claims and significant defense costs. we insure a substantial portion of our professional liability risks through a wholly-owned subsidiary. management believes our reserves for self-insured retentions and insurance coverage are sufficient to cover claims arising out of the operation of our facilities. our wholly-owned insurance subsidiary has entered into certain reinsurance contracts, and the obligations covered by the reinsurance contracts are included in its reserves for professional liability risks, as the subsidiary remains liable to the extent that the reinsurers do not meet their obligations under the reinsurance contracts. if payments for claims exceed actuarially determined estimates, are not covered by insurance or reinsurers, if any, fail to meet their obligations, our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected. we are exposed to market risks related to changes in the market values of securities and interest rate changes. we are exposed to market risk related to changes in market values of securities. the investments in debt and equity securities of our wholly-owned insurance subsidiary were $1.870 billion and $29 million, respectively, at december 31, 2007. these investments are carried at fair value, with changes in unrealized gains and losses being recorded as adjustments to other comprehensive income. the fair value of investments is generally based on quoted market prices. at december 31, 2007, we had a net unrealized gain of $21 million on the insurance subsidiary investment securities. we are exposed to market risk related to market illiquidity. liquidity of the investments in debt and equity securities of our wholly-owned insurance subsidiary could be affected by the inability to access capital markets. at december 31, 2007, our wholly-owned insurance subsidiary, had invested $725 million in municipal, tax-exempt student loan auction rate securities and $20 million in preferred stock auction rate securities which were classified as long-term investments. the auction rate securities ( ars ) are publicly issued securities with long-term stated maturities for which the interest rates are reset through a dutch auction every 35 to 92 days. the auctions have historically provided a liquid market for these securities, as investors could readily sell their investments at auction. with the liquidity issues experienced in global credit and capital markets, the ars held by our wholly-owned subsidiary have experienced multiple failed auctions, beginning on february 11, 2008, as the amount of securities 28 table of contents submitted for sale exceeded the amount of purchase orders. there is a very limited market for the ars at this time. we do not currently intend to attempt sell the ars as the liquidity needs of our insurance subsidiary are expected to be met by other investments in its investment portfolio. if uncertainties in the credit and capital markets continue or there are ratings downgrades on the ars held by our insurance subsidiary, we may be required to recognize other-than-temporary impairments on these long-term investments in future periods. we are also exposed to market risk related to changes in interest rates and periodically enter into interest rate swap agreements to manage our exposure to these fluctuations. our interest rate swap agreements involve the exchange of fixed and variable rate interest payments between two parties, based on common notional principal amounts and maturity dates. the net interest payments based on the notional amounts in these agreements generally match the timing of the cash flows of the related liabilities. the notional amounts of the swap agreements represent balances used to calculate the exchange of cash flows and are not assets or liabilities of hca. any market risk or opportunity associated with these swap agreements is offset by the opposite market impact on the related debt. see item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. since the recapitalization, the investors control us and may have conflicts of interest with us in the future. as of december 31, 2007, the investors indirectly own 97.5% of our capital stock due to the recapitalization. as a result, the investors have control over our decisions to enter into any significant corporate transaction and have the ability to prevent any transaction that requires the approval of shareholders. for example, the investors could cause us to make acquisitions that increase the amount of our indebtedness or sell assets. additionally, the sponsors are in the business of making investments in companies and may acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. one or more of the sponsors may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. so long as investment funds associated with or designated by the sponsors continue to indirectly own a significant amount of the outstanding shares of our common stock, even if such amount is less than 50%, the sponsors will continue to be able to strongly influence or effectively control our decisions. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 55 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information called for by this item is provided under the caption market risk under item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations.risk factors 22 risk factors risk factors if any of the events discussed in the following risk factors were to occur, our business, financial position, results of operations, cash flows or prospects could be materially, adversely affected. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known, or currently deemed immaterial, may also constrain our business and operations. our substantial leverage could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry, expose us to interest rate risk to the extent of our variable rate debt and prevent us from meeting our obligations. since completing the recapitalization, we are highly leveraged. as of december 31, 2008, our total indebtedness was $26.989 billion. our high degree of leverage could have important consequences, including: increasing our vulnerability to downturns or adverse changes in general economic, industry or competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulations; requiring a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, therefore reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities; exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our unhedged borrowings are at variable rates of interest; limiting our ability to make strategic acquisitions or causing us to make nonstrategic divestitures; 22 table of contents limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product or service line development, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who are less highly leveraged. we and our subsidiaries have the ability to incur additional indebtedness in the future, subject to the restrictions contained in our senior secured credit facilities and the indentures governing our outstanding notes. if new indebtedness is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could intensify. we may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may not be able to refinance our indebtedness on favorable terms. if we are unable to do so, we may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. we cannot assure you that we will maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. as of december 31, 2008, our substantial indebtedness included $14.052 billion of indebtedness under our senior secured credit facilities that matures in 2012 and 2013, $5.700 billion of second lien notes maturing in 2014 and 2016 and $6.831 billion of unsecured senior notes and debentures that mature on various dates from 2009 to 2095 (including $5.442 billion maturing through 2016). because a significant portion of our indebtedness matures in the next few years, we may find it necessary or prudent to refinance that indebtedness with longer-maturity debt at a higher interest rate. in february 2009, for example, we issued $310 million of 9 7 / 8 % senior secured notes due in 2017. we used the net proceeds of that offering to prepay term loans under our senior secured credit facilities, which currently bear interest at a lower floating rate. our ability to refinance our indebtedness on favorable terms, or at all, is directly affected by the current global economic and financial crisis. in addition, our ability to incur secured indebtedness (which may enable us to achieve better pricing than the incurrence of unsecured indebtedness) depends in part on the value of our assets, which depends, in turn, on the strength of our cash flows and results of operations and on economic and market conditions and other factors. if our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations or we are unable to refinance our indebtedness, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure our indebtedness. these alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. if our operating results and available cash are insufficient to meet our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. we may not be able to consummate those dispositions, or the proceeds from the dispositions may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. our debt agreements contain restrictions that limit our flexibility in operating our business. our senior secured credit facilities and the indentures governing our outstanding notes contain various covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions. these covenants limit our and certain of our subsidiaries ability to, among other things: incur additional indebtedness or issue certain preferred shares; pay dividends on, repurchase or make distributions in respect of our capital stock or make other restricted payments; make certain investments; sell or transfer assets; 23 table of contents create liens; consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and enter into certain transactions with our affiliates. under our asset-based revolving credit facility, when (and for as long as) the combined availability under our asset-based revolving credit facility and our senior secured revolving credit facility is less than a specified amount, for a certain period of time, or if a payment or bankruptcy event of default has occurred and is continuing, funds deposited into any of our depository accounts will be transferred on a daily basis into a blocked account with the administrative agent and applied to prepay loans under the asset-based revolving credit facility and to cash collateralize letters of credit issued thereunder. under our senior secured credit facilities we are required to satisfy and maintain specified financial ratios. our ability to meet those financial ratios can be affected by events beyond our control, and there can be no assurance that we will continue to meet those ratios. a breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under both of our senior secured credit facilities. upon the occurrence of an event of default under our senior secured credit facilities, our lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under our senior secured credit facilities to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. if we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under our senior secured credit facilities could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure each such indebtedness. we have pledged a significant portion of our assets as collateral under our senior secured credit facilities and our existing senior secured notes. if any of the lenders under our senior secured credit facilities accelerate the repayment of borrowings, there can be no assurance that we will have sufficient assets to repay our senior secured credit facilities and our outstanding notes. our hospitals face competition for patients from other hospitals and health care providers. the health care business is highly competitive, and competition among hospitals and other health care providers for patients has intensified in recent years. generally, other hospitals in the local communities served by most of our hospitals provide services similar to those offered by our hospitals. in addition, cms publicizes on a website performance data related to quality measures and data on patient satisfaction surveys that hospitals submit in connection with their medicare reimbursement. federal law provides for the future expansion of the number of quality measures that must be reported. additional quality measures and future trends toward clinical transparency may have an unanticipated impact on our competitive position and patient volumes. if any of our hospitals achieve poor results (or results that are lower than our competitors) on these quality measures or on patient satisfaction surveys, patient volumes could decline. in addition, the number of freestanding specialty hospitals, surgery centers and diagnostic and imaging centers in the geographic areas in which we operate has increased significantly. as a result, most of our hospitals operate in a highly competitive environment. some of the facilities that compete with our hospitals are owned by governmental agencies or not-for-profit corporations supported by endowments, charitable contributions and/or tax revenues and can finance capital expenditures and operations on a tax-exempt basis. our hospitals are facing increasing competition from physician-owned specialty hospitals and from both our own and unaffiliated freestanding surgery centers for market share in high margin services and for quality physicians and personnel. if ambulatory surgery centers are better able to compete in this environment than our hospitals, our hospitals may experience a decline in patient volume, and we may experience a decrease in margin, even if those patients use our ambulatory surgery centers. in states that do not require prior regulatory approval, known as a certificate of need ( con ), for the purchase, construction or expansion of health care facilities or services, competing health care providers face low barriers to entry and expansion. further, if our competitors are better able to attract patients, recruit physicians, expand services or obtain favorable managed care contracts at their facilities than our hospitals and ambulatory surgery centers, we may experience an overall decline in patient volume. see item 1, business competition. 24 table of contents the growth of uninsured and patient due accounts and a deterioration in the collectibility of these accounts could adversely affect our results of operations. the primary collection risks of our accounts receivable relate to the uninsured patient accounts and patient accounts for which the primary insurance carrier has paid the amounts covered by the applicable agreement, but patient responsibility amounts (deductibles and copayments) remain outstanding. the provision for doubtful accounts relates primarily to amounts due directly from patients. the amount of the provision for doubtful accounts is based upon management assessment of historical writeoffs and expected net collections, business and economic conditions, trends in federal and state governmental and private employer health care coverage, the rate of growth in uninsured patient admissions and other collection indicators. due to a number of factors, including the recent economic downturn and increase in unemployment, we believe that our facilities may experience growth in bad debts and charity care. at december 31, 2008, our allowance for doubtful accounts represented approximately 93% of the $5.838 billion patient due accounts receivable balance. for the year ended december 31, 2008, the provision for doubtful accounts increased to 12.0% of revenues compared to 11.7% of revenues in 2007. a continuation of the trends that have resulted in an increasing proportion of accounts receivable being comprised of uninsured accounts and a deterioration in the collectibility of these accounts will adversely affect our collection of accounts receivable, cash flows and results of operations. changes in governmental and judicial interpretations may negatively impact our ability to obtain reimbursement of medicare bad debts the medicare program reimburses 70% of bad debts related to deductibles and coinsurance for patients with medicare coverage, after the provider has made a reasonable effort to collect those amounts. we utilize extensive in-house and external collection efforts for our accounts receivable, including deductible and coinsurance amounts owed by patients with medicare coverage. we use a secondary collection agency after in-house and primary collection agency efforts have been unsuccessful. a recent court case upheld cms interpretation that reasonable collection efforts have not been satisfied as long as the medicare accounts remain with an external collection agency. we incur substantial amounts of medicare bad debts every year that could be subject to this decision. during 2007, we modified our accounts receivable collection processes to provide reasonable collection results and comply with cms interpretation of reasonable collection efforts. possible future changes in judicial and administrative interpretations of law and regulations governing medicare could disrupt our collections processes, increase our costs or otherwise adversely affect our business and results of operations. changes in governmental programs may reduce our revenues. a significant portion of our patient volumes is derived from government health care programs, principally medicare and medicaid, which are highly regulated and subject to frequent and substantial changes. we derived approximately 59% of our admissions from the medicare and medicaid programs in 2008. in recent years, legislative and regulatory changes have resulted in limitations on and, in some cases, reductions in levels of payments to health care providers for certain services under these government programs. national health care reform is a focus at the federal level, and we anticipate that it will remain a focus in the near term. several states are also considering health care reform measures. this focus on health care reform may increase the likelihood of significant changes affecting government health care programs. possible future changes in the medicare, medicaid, and other state programs, may reduce reimbursements to health care providers and insurers and may also increase our operating costs, which could reduce our profitability. cms issued final regulations effective january 1, 2008 that increased asc payment groups from nine clinically disparate payment groups to an extensive list of covered surgical procedures among the apcs used under the outpatient pps for these surgical services. cms estimates that the payment rates for procedures performed in an asc setting equal 65% of the corresponding rates paid for the same procedures performed in an outpatient hospital setting. the final regulation establishes a four-year transition period for implementing the revised payment rates. this regulation significantly expands the number of procedures that medicare reimburses if performed in an asc and limits asc reimbursement for procedures commonly performed in physicians offices. more medicare 25 table of contents procedures that are now performed in hospitals, such as ours, may be moved to ascs, reducing surgical volume in our hospitals. also, more medicare procedures that are now performed in ascs, such as ours, may be moved to physicians offices. commercial third-party payers may adopt similar policies. on august 22, 2007, cms issued a final rule for federal fiscal year 2008 for hospital inpatient pps. this rule adopts a two-year implementation of ms-drgs, a medicare severity-adjusted diagnosis related group system. this change represents a refinement to the existing medicare drg system. realignments in the drg system could impact the margins we receive for certain services. for federal fiscal year 2009, cms has provided a 3.6% market basket update for hospitals that submit certain quality patient care indicators and a 1.6% update for hospitals that do not submit this data. while we will endeavor to comply with all quality data submission requirements, our submissions may not be deemed timely or sufficient to entitle us to the full market basket adjustment for all of our hospitals. medicare payments to hospitals in fiscal years 2009 and 2008 have been reduced to eliminate what cms estimates will be the effect of coding or classifications changes as a result of hospitals implementing the ms-drg system. cms may retrospectively determine if the adjustment levels for federal fiscal years 2009 and 2008 were adequate and may impose an adjustment in future years if cms finds that the adjustment was inadequate. additionally, medicare payments to hospitals are subject to a number of other adjustments, and the actual impact on payments to specific hospitals may vary. in some cases, commercial third-party payers and other payers such as some state medicaid programs rely on all or portions of the medicare drg system to determine payment rates. the change from traditional medicare drgs to ms-drgs could adversely impact those payment rates if any other payers adopt ms-drgs. since most states must operate with balanced budgets and since the medicaid program is often the state largest program, states can be expected to adopt or consider adopting legislation designed to reduce their medicaid expenditures. the current economic downturn has increased the budgetary pressures on most states, and these budgetary pressures have resulted and likely will continue to result in decreased spending for medicaid programs in many states. further, many states have also adopted, or are considering, legislation designed to reduce coverage and program eligibility, enroll medicaid recipients in managed care programs and/or impose additional taxes on hospitals to help finance or expand the states medicaid systems. recently, the department of defense implemented a prospective payment system for hospital outpatient services furnished to tricare beneficiaries similar to that utilized for services furnished to medicare beneficiaries. because the medicare outpatient prospective payment system apc rates have historically been below tricare rates, the adoption of this payment methodology for tricare beneficiaries will reduce our reimbursement. this change in tricare will have a material impact on our revenues from this program; however, tricare outpatient services do not represent a significant portion of our patient volumes. the tricare outpatient payment rule has been reopened for comment and the effective date delayed until may 1, 2009. further modification to the new outpatient payment system may be made. changes in laws or regulations regarding government health programs or other changes in the administration of government health programs could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. if we are unable to retain and negotiate favorable contracts with nongovernment payers, including managed care plans, our revenues may be reduced. our ability to obtain favorable contracts with nongovernment payers, including health maintenance organizations, preferred provider organizations and other managed care plans significantly affects the revenues and operating results of our facilities. revenues derived from these entities and other insurers accounted for 53% and 54% of our patient revenues for the years ended december 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. nongovernment payers, including managed care payers, continue to demand discounted fee structures, and the trend toward consolidation among nongovernment payers tends to increase their bargaining power over fee structures. our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to retain and renew our managed care contracts and enter into new managed care contracts on terms favorable to us. other health care providers may impact our ability to enter into managed care contracts or negotiate increases in our reimbursement and other favorable terms and conditions. for example, some of our competitors may negotiate exclusivity provisions with managed care plans or otherwise restrict the ability of 26 table of contents managed care companies to contract with us. if we are unable to retain and negotiate favorable contracts with managed care plans or experience reductions in payment increases or amounts received from nongovernment payers, our revenues may be reduced. our performance depends on our ability to recruit and retain quality physicians. physicians generally direct the majority of hospital admissions, and the success of our hospitals depends, therefore, in part on the number and quality of the physicians on the medical staffs of our hospitals, the admitting practices of those physicians and maintaining good relations with those physicians. physicians are often not employees of the hospitals at which they practice and, in many of the markets that we serve, most physicians have admitting privileges at other hospitals in addition to our hospitals. such physicians may terminate their affiliation with our hospitals at any time. if we are unable to provide adequate support personnel or technologically advanced equipment and hospital facilities that meet the needs of those physicians, they may be discouraged from referring patients to our facilities, admissions may decrease and our operating performance may decline. our hospitals face competition for staffing, which may increase labor costs and reduce profitability. our operations are dependent on the efforts, abilities and experience of our management and medical support personnel, such as nurses, pharmacists and lab technicians, as well as our physicians. we compete with other health care providers in recruiting and retaining qualified management and support personnel responsible for the daily operations of each of our hospitals, including nurses and other nonphysician health care professionals. in some markets, the availability of nurses and other medical support personnel has become a significant operating issue to health care providers. we may be required to continue to enhance wages and benefits to recruit and retain nurses and other medical support personnel or to hire more expensive temporary or contract personnel. we also depend on the available labor pool of semi-skilled and unskilled employees in each of the markets in which we operate. as the competition increases to hire more people from labor pools that are not growing at a rate sufficient to meet demand, our labor costs could increase. certain proposed changes in federal labor laws, including the employee free choice act, may increase the likelihood of employee unionization attempts. to the extent that a significant portion of our employee base unionizes, our costs could increase materially. in addition, union-mandated or state-mandated nurse-staffing ratios could significantly affect labor costs and have an adverse impact on revenue if we are unable to meet the required ratios and are required to limit admissions as a result. if our labor costs increase, we may not be able to raise rates to offset these increased costs. because a significant percentage of our revenues consists of fixed, prospective payments, our ability to pass along increased labor costs is constrained. our failure to recruit and retain qualified management, nurses and other medical support personnel, or to control labor costs, could have a material, adverse effect on our results of operations. if we fail to comply with extensive laws and government regulations, we could suffer penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations. the health care industry is required to comply with extensive and complex laws and regulations at the federal, state and local government levels relating to, among other things: billing for services; relationships with physicians and other referral sources; adequacy of medical care; quality of medical equipment and services; qualifications of medical and support personnel; confidentiality, maintenance and security issues associated with health-related information and medical records; the screening, stabilization and transfer of individuals who have emergency medical conditions; licensure and certification; 27 table of contents hospital rate or budget review; operating policies and procedures; and addition of facilities and services. among these laws are the federal anti-kickback statute, the federal physician self-referral law (commonly called the stark law) and the federal fca and similar state laws. we have a variety of financial relationships with physicians and others who either refer or influence the referral of patients to our hospitals and other health care facilities, and these laws govern those relationships. the oig has enacted safe harbor regulations that outline practices that are deemed protected from prosecution under the anti-kickback statute. while we endeavor to comply with the applicable safe harbors, certain of our current arrangements, including joint ventures and financial relationships with physicians and other referral sources and persons and entities to which we refer patients, do not qualify for safe harbor protection. failure to qualify for a safe harbor does not mean that the arrangement necessarily violates the anti-kickback statute but may subject the arrangement to greater scrutiny; however, we cannot offer assurance that practices outside of a safe harbor will not be found to violate the anti-kickback statute. allegations of violations of the anti-kickback statute may be brought under the federal civil monetary penalty law, which requires a lower burden of proof than other fraud and abuse laws, including the anti-kickback statute. our financial relationships with referring physicians and their immediate family members must comply with the stark law by meeting an exception. we attempt to structure our relationships to meet an exception to the stark law, but the regulations implementing the exceptions are detailed and complex, and we cannot assure that every relationship complies fully with the stark law. unlike the anti-kickback statute, failure to meet an exception under the stark law results in a violation of the stark law, even if such violation is technical in nature. additionally, if we violate the anti-kickback statute or stark law, or if we improperly bill for our services, we may be found to violate the fca, either under a suit brought by the government or by a private person under a qui tam , or whistleblower, suit. if we fail to comply with the anti-kickback statute, the stark law, the fca or other applicable laws and regulations, we could be subjected to liabilities, including civil penalties (including the loss of our licenses to operate one or more facilities), exclusion of one or more facilities from participation in the medicare, medicaid and other federal and state health care programs and, for violations of certain laws and regulations, criminal penalties. see regulation. cms is proceeding with a proposal to collect information from 400 hospitals regarding their ownership, investment and compensation arrangements with physicians. called the disclosure of financial relationships report or dfrr, cms intends to use this data to monitor compliance with the stark law, and cms may share this information with other government agencies. many of these agencies have not previously analyzed this information and have the authority to bring enforcement actions against hospitals filing such reports. because many of these laws and their implementing regulations are relatively new, we do not always have the benefit of significant regulatory or judicial interpretation of these laws and regulations. in the future, different interpretations or enforcement of these laws and regulations could subject our current or past practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality or could require us to make changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel, services, capital expenditure programs and operating expenses. a determination that we have violated these laws, or the public announcement that we are being investigated for possible violations of these laws, could have a material, adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects, and our business reputation could suffer significantly. in addition, other legislation or regulations at the federal or state level may be adopted that adversely affect our business. we have been the subject of governmental investigations, claims and litigation, and we could be the subject of additional investigations in the future. commencing in 1997, we became aware that we were the subject of governmental investigations and litigation relating to our business practices. the investigations were concluded through a series of agreements executed in 2000 and 2003. in january 2001, we entered into an eight-year cia with the oig, which expired january 24, 2009. 28 table of contents under the cia, we had numerous affirmative obligations, including the requirement to report potential violations of applicable federal health care laws and regulations. pursuant to these obligations, we reported a number of potential violations of the stark law, the anti-kickback statute, the emtala and other laws, most of which we consider to be nonviolations or technical violations. we will submit our final report pursuant to the cia by april 30, 2009. the government could determine that our reporting and/or our resolution of reported issues was inadequate. if we are found to have violated the cia or any applicable health care laws or regulations, we could be subject to repayment requirements, substantial monetary fines, civil penalties, exclusion from participation in the medicare and medicaid and other federal and state health care programs, and, for violations of certain laws and regulations, criminal penalties. any such sanctions or expenses could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or liquidity. health care companies are subject to numerous investigations by various governmental agencies. further, under the federal fca, private parties have the right to bring qui tam , or whistleblower, suits against companies that submit false claims for payments to the government. some states have adopted similar state whistleblower and false claims provisions. certain of our individual facilities have received, and other facilities may receive, government inquiries from federal and state agencies. depending on whether the underlying conduct in these or future inquiries or investigations could be considered systemic, their resolution could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. governmental agencies and their agents, such as the medicare administrative contractors, fiscal intermediaries and carriers, as well as the oig, conduct audits of our health care operations. private payers may conduct similar post-payment audits, and we also perform internal audits and monitoring. depending on the nature of the conduct found in such audits and whether the underlying conduct could be considered systemic, the resolution of these audits could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. the mma established the rac three-year demonstration program to conduct post-payment reviews to detect and correct improper payments in the fee-for-service medicare program. beginning in 2005, cms contracted with three different racs to conduct these reviews in california, florida and new york. the program was expanded in august 2007 to include arizona, massachusetts and south carolina. we had 46 hospitals located in the demonstration areas and 44 of these hospitals actually had a review performed. the tax relief and health care act of 2006 made the rac program permanent and mandated its nationwide expansion by 2010. should we be found out of compliance, depending on the nature of the findings, our business, our financial position and our results of operations could be negatively impacted. controls designed to reduce inpatient services may reduce our revenues. controls imposed by medicare, managed medicare, medicaid, managed medicaid and commercial third-party payers designed to reduce admissions and lengths of stay, commonly referred to as utilization review, have affected and are expected to continue to affect our facilities. utilization review entails the review of the admission and course of treatment of a patient by health plans. inpatient utilization, average lengths of stay and occupancy rates continue to be negatively affected by payer-required preadmission authorization and utilization review and by payer pressure to maximize outpatient and alternative health care delivery services for less acutely ill patients. efforts to impose more stringent cost controls are expected to continue. although we are unable to predict the effect these changes will have on our operations, significant limits on the scope of services reimbursed and on reimbursement rates and fees could have a material, adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. our overall business results may suffer from the recent economic downturn. recently, the united states economy has weakened significantly. tightening credit markets, depressed consumer spending and higher unemployment rates continue to pressure many industries. during economic downturns, governmental entities often experience budgetary constraints as a result of increased costs and lower than expected tax collections. these budgetary constraints may result in decreased spending for health and human service programs, including medicare, medicaid and similar programs, which represent significant payer sources for our hospitals. other risks we face from general economic weakness include potential declines in the population 29 table of contents covered under managed care agreements, patient decisions to postpone or cancel elective and non-emergent healthcare procedures, potential increases in the uninsured and underinsured populations and further difficulties in our collecting patient copayment and deductible receivables. the industry trend towards value-based purchasing may negatively impact our revenues. there is a trend in the health care industry toward value-based purchasing of health care services. these value-based purchasing programs include both public reporting of quality data and preventable adverse events tied to the quality and efficiency of care provided by facilities. governmental programs including medicare and medicaid require hospitals to report certain quality data to receive full reimbursement updates. in addition medicare does not reimburse for care related to certain preventable adverse events (also called never events ). many large commercial payers currently require hospitals to report quality data, and several commercial payers do not reimburse hospitals for certain preventable adverse events. further, we have implemented a policy pursuant to which we do not bill patients or third-party payers for fees or expenses incurred due to certain preventable adverse events. we expect value-based purchasing programs, including programs that condition reimbursement on patient outcome measures, to become more common and to involve a higher percentage of reimbursement amounts. we are unable at this time to predict how this trend will affect our results of operations, but it could negatively impact our revenues. our operations could be impaired by a failure of our information systems. any system failure that causes an interruption in service or availability of our systems could adversely affect operations or delay the collection of revenues. even though we have implemented network security measures, our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering. the occurrence of any of these events could result in interruptions, delays, the loss or corruption of data, or cessations in the availability of systems, all of which could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations and harm our business reputation. the performance of our sophisticated information technology and systems is critical to our business operations. in addition to our shared services initiatives, our information systems are essential to a number of critical areas of our operations, including: accounting and financial reporting; billing and collecting accounts; coding and compliance; clinical systems; medical records and document storage; inventory management; negotiating, pricing and administering managed care contracts and supply contracts; and monitoring quality of care and collecting data on quality measures necessary for full medicare payment updates. state efforts to regulate the construction or expansion of health care facilities could impair our ability to operate and expand our operations. some states, particularly in the eastern part of the country, require health care providers to obtain prior approval, known as a con, for the purchase, construction or expansion of health care facilities, to make certain capital expenditures or to make changes in services or bed capacity. in giving approval, these states consider the need for additional or expanded health care facilities or services. we currently operate health care facilities in a number of states with con laws. the failure to obtain any requested con could impair our ability to operate or expand operations. any such failure could, in turn, adversely affect our ability to attract patients to our facilities and grow our revenues, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. 30 table of contents our facilities are heavily concentrated in florida and texas, which makes us sensitive to regulatory, economic, environmental and competitive conditions and changes in those states. we operated 166 hospitals at december 31, 2008, and 72 of those hospitals are located in florida and texas. our florida and texas facilities combined revenues represented approximately 51% of our consolidated revenues for the year ended december 31, 2008. this concentration makes us particularly sensitive to regulatory, economic, environmental and competitive conditions and changes in those states. any material change in the current payment programs or regulatory, economic, environmental or competitive conditions in those states could have a disproportionate effect on our overall business results. in addition, our hospitals in florida and texas and other areas across the gulf coast are located in hurricane-prone areas. in the recent past, hurricanes have had a disruptive effect on the operations of our hospitals in florida, texas and other coastal states, and the patient populations in those states. our business activities could be harmed by a particularly active hurricane season or even a single storm, and the property insurance we obtain may not be adequate to cover losses from future hurricanes or other natural disasters. we may be subject to liabilities from claims by the irs. we are currently contesting before the appeals division of the internal revenue service (the irs ) certain claimed deficiencies and adjustments proposed by the irs in connection with its examination of the 2003 and 2004 federal income tax returns for hca and 17 affiliates that are treated as partnerships for federal income tax purposes ( affiliated partnerships ). the disputed items include the timing of recognition of certain patient service revenues and our method for calculating the tax allowance for doubtful accounts. eight taxable periods of hca and its predecessors ended in 1995 through 2002 and the 2002 taxable year of 13 affiliated partnerships, for which the primary remaining issue is the computation of the tax allowance for doubtful accounts, are pending before the irs examination division or the united states tax court as of december 31, 2008. the irs began an audit of the 2005 and 2006 federal income tax returns for hca and seven affiliated partnerships during 2008. we may be subject to liabilities from claims brought against our facilities. we are subject to litigation relating to our business practices, including claims and legal actions by patients and others in the ordinary course of business alleging malpractice, product liability or other legal theories. see item 3, legal proceedings. many of these actions involve large claims and significant defense costs. we insure a portion of our professional liability risks through a wholly-owned subsidiary. management believes our reserves for self-insured retentions and insurance coverage are sufficient to cover insured claims arising out of the operation of our facilities. our wholly-owned insurance subsidiary has entered into certain reinsurance contracts, and the obligations covered by the reinsurance contracts are included in its reserves for professional liability risks, as the subsidiary remains liable to the extent that the reinsurers do not meet their obligations under the reinsurance contracts. if payments for claims exceed actuarially determined estimates, are not covered by insurance or reinsurers, if any, fail to meet their obligations, our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected. we are exposed to market risks related to changes in the market values of securities and interest rate changes. we are exposed to market risk related to changes in market values of securities. the investments in debt and equity securities of our wholly-owned insurance subsidiary were $1.614 billion and $8 million, respectively, at december 31, 2008. these investments are carried at fair value, with changes in unrealized gains and losses being recorded as adjustments to other comprehensive income. at december 31, 2008, we had a net unrealized loss of $48 million on the insurance subsidiary investment securities. we are exposed to market risk related to market illiquidity. liquidity of the investments in debt and equity securities of our wholly-owned insurance subsidiary could be impaired by the inability to access the capital markets. should the wholly-owned insurance subsidiary require significant amounts of cash in excess of normal cash requirements to pay claims and other expenses on short notice, we may have difficulty selling these investments in a 31 table of contents timely manner or be forced to sell them at a price less than what we might otherwise have been able to in a normal market environment. at december 31, 2008, our wholly-owned insurance subsidiary, had invested $536 million ($573 million par value) in municipal, tax-exempt student loan auction rate securities which were classified as long-term investments. the auction rate securities ( ars ) are publicly issued securities with long-term stated maturities for which the interest rates are reset through a dutch auction every seven to 35 days. with the liquidity issues experienced in global credit and capital markets, the ars held by our wholly-owned insurance subsidiary have experienced multiple failed auctions, beginning on february 11, 2008, as the amount of securities submitted for sale exceeded the amount of purchase orders. there is a very limited market for the ars at this time. we do not currently intend to attempt to sell the ars as the liquidity needs of our insurance subsidiary are expected to be met by other investments in its investment portfolio. if uncertainties in the credit and capital markets continue or there are ratings downgrades on the ars held by our insurance subsidiary, we may be required to recognize other-than-temporary impairments on these long-term investments in future periods. we are also exposed to market risk related to changes in interest rates and periodically enter into interest rate swap agreements to manage our exposure to these fluctuations. our interest rate swap agreements involve the exchange of fixed and variable rate interest payments between two parties, based on common notional principal amounts and maturity dates. the net interest payments based on the notional amounts in these agreements generally match the timing of the cash flows of the related liabilities. the notional amounts of the swap agreements represent balances used to calculate the exchange of cash flows and are not assets or liabilities of hca. see item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. since the recapitalization, the investors control us and may have conflicts of interest with us in the future. as of december 31, 2008, the investors and certain other investors indirectly own 97.3% of our capital stock due to the recapitalization. as a result, the investors have control over our decisions to enter into any significant corporate transaction and have the ability to prevent any transaction that requires the approval of shareholders. for example, the investors could cause us to make acquisitions that increase the amount of our indebtedness or sell assets. additionally, the sponsors are in the business of making investments in companies and may acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. one or more of the sponsors may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. so long as investment funds associated with or designated by the sponsors continue to indirectly own a significant amount of the outstanding shares of our common stock, even if such amount is less than 50%, the sponsors will continue to be able to strongly influence or effectively control our decisions. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 57 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information called for by this item is provided under the caption market risk under item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations.risk factors 39 risk factors if any of the events discussed in the following risk factors were to occur, our business, financial position, results of operations, cash flows or prospects could be materially, adversely affected. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known, or currently deemed immaterial, may also constrain our business and operations. our substantial leverage could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry, expose us to interest rate risk to the extent of our variable rate debt and prevent us from meeting our obligations. we are highly leveraged. as of december 31, 2011, our total indebtedness was $27.052 billion. as of december 31, 2011, we had availability of $1.935 billion under our senior secured revolving credit facility and $202 million under our asset-based revolving credit facility, after giving effect to letters of credit and borrowing base limitations. our high degree of leverage could have important consequences, including: increasing our vulnerability to downturns or adverse changes in general economic, industry or competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulations; requiring a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, therefore reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities; exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our unhedged borrowings are at variable rates of interest; limiting our ability to make strategic acquisitions or causing us to make nonstrategic divestitures; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product or service line development, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who are less highly leveraged. we and our subsidiaries have the ability to incur additional indebtedness in the future, subject to the restrictions contained in our senior secured credit facilities and the indentures governing our outstanding notes. if new indebtedness is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could intensify. we may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may not be able to refinance our indebtedness on favorable terms. if we are unable to do so, we may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. we cannot assure you we will maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. in addition, we conduct our operations through our subsidiaries. accordingly, repayment of our indebtedness is dependent on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise. our subsidiaries may not be able to, or may not be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness. each subsidiary is a distinct legal entity, and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. 39 table of contents we may find it necessary or prudent to refinance our outstanding indebtedness with longer-maturity debt at a higher interest rate. our ability to refinance our indebtedness on favorable terms, or at all, is directly affected by the current global economic and financial conditions. in addition, our ability to incur secured indebtedness (which would generally enable us to achieve better pricing than the incurrence of unsecured indebtedness) depends in part on the value of our assets, which depends, in turn, on the strength of our cash flows and results of operations, and on economic and market conditions and other factors. if our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations or we are unable to refinance our indebtedness, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure our indebtedness. these alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. if our operating results and available cash are insufficient to meet our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. we may not be able to consummate those dispositions, or the proceeds from the dispositions may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. our debt agreements contain restrictions that limit our flexibility in operating our business. our senior secured credit facilities and the indentures governing our outstanding notes contain various covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions. these covenants limit our and certain of our subsidiaries ability to, among other things: incur additional indebtedness or issue certain preferred shares; pay dividends on, repurchase or make distributions in respect of our capital stock or make other restricted payments; make certain investments; sell or transfer assets; create liens; consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and enter into certain transactions with our affiliates. under our asset-based revolving credit facility, when (and for as long as) the combined availability under our asset-based revolving credit facility and our senior secured revolving credit facility is less than a specified amount for a certain period of time or, if a payment or bankruptcy event of default has occurred and is continuing, funds deposited into any of our depository accounts will be transferred on a daily basis into a blocked account with the administrative agent and applied to prepay loans under the asset-based revolving credit facility and to cash collateralize letters of credit issued thereunder. under our senior secured credit facilities, we are required to satisfy and maintain specified financial ratios. our ability to meet those financial ratios can be affected by events beyond our control, and there can be no assurance we will continue to meet those ratios. a breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under both the cash flow credit facility and the asset-based revolving credit facility. upon the occurrence of an event of default under the senior secured credit facilities, the lenders thereunder could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the senior secured credit facilities to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. if we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under the senior secured credit facilities could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure such indebtedness. we have pledged a significant portion of our assets under our senior secured credit facilities and that collateral (other than certain european collateral securing our senior secured european term loan facility) is also pledged as collateral under our first lien notes. if any of the lenders under the senior secured credit facilities accelerate the repayment of borrowings, there can be no assurance there will be sufficient assets to repay the senior secured credit facilities, the first lien notes and our other indebtedness. 40 table of contents our hospitals face competition for patients from other hospitals and health care providers. the health care business is highly competitive, and competition among hospitals and other health care providers for patients has intensified in recent years. generally, other hospitals in the local communities we serve provide services similar to those offered by our hospitals. in addition, cms publicizes on its hospital compare website performance data related to quality measures and data on patient satisfaction surveys hospitals submit in connection with their medicare reimbursement. federal law provides for the future expansion of the number of quality measures that must be reported. additional quality measures and future trends toward clinical transparency may have an unanticipated impact on our competitive position and patient volumes. further, the health reform law requires all hospitals to annually establish, update and make public a list of the hospital standard charges for items and services. if any of our hospitals achieve poor results (or results that are lower than our competitors) on these quality measures or on patient satisfaction surveys or if our standard charges are higher than our competitors, our patient volumes could decline. in addition, the number of freestanding specialty hospitals, surgery centers and diagnostic and imaging centers in the geographic areas in which we operate has increased significantly. as a result, most of our hospitals operate in a highly competitive environment. some of the facilities that compete with our hospitals are owned by governmental agencies or not-for-profit corporations supported by endowments, charitable contributions and/or tax revenues and can finance capital expenditures and operations on a tax-exempt basis. our hospitals face competition from specialty hospitals, some of which are physician-owned, and from both our own and unaffiliated freestanding surgery centers for market share in certain high margin services and for quality physicians and personnel. if ambulatory surgery centers are better able to compete in this environment than our hospitals, our hospitals may experience a decline in patient volume, and we may experience a decrease in margin, even if those patients use our ambulatory surgery centers. in states that do not require a con for the purchase, construction or expansion of health care facilities or services, competition in the form of new services, facilities and capital spending is more prevalent. further, if our competitors are better able to attract patients, make capital expenditures and maintain modern and technologically upgraded facilities and equipment, recruit physicians, expand services or obtain favorable managed care contracts at their facilities than our hospitals and ambulatory surgery centers, we may experience an overall decline in patient volume. see item 1, business competition. the growth of uninsured and patient due accounts and a deterioration in the collectibility of these accounts could adversely affect our results of operations. the primary collection risks of our accounts receivable relate to the uninsured patient accounts and patient accounts for which the primary insurance carrier has paid the amounts covered by the applicable agreement, but patient responsibility amounts (exclusions, deductibles and copayments) remain outstanding. the provision for doubtful accounts relates primarily to amounts due directly from patients. although medicare reimburses hospitals for a portion of medicare bad debts, the jobs creation act will reduce the reimbursement level from 70% of eligible bad debts to 65% beginning in federal fiscal year 2013. the amount of the provision for doubtful accounts is based upon management assessment of historical write-offs and expected net collections, business and economic conditions, trends in federal and state governmental and private employer health care coverage, the rate of growth in uninsured patient admissions and other collection indicators. at december 31, 2011, our allowance for doubtful accounts represented approximately 92% of the $4.478 billion patient due accounts receivable balance. the sum of the provision for doubtful accounts, uninsured discounts and charity care increased from $8.362 billion for 2009 to $9.626 billion for 2010 and to $11.214 billion for 2011. a continuation of the trends that have resulted in an increasing proportion of accounts receivable being comprised of uninsured accounts and a deterioration in the collectibility of these accounts will adversely affect our collection of accounts receivable, cash flows and results of operations. we may also be adversely affected by the growth in patient responsibility accounts as a result of increases in the adoption of plan structures, including 41 table of contents health savings accounts, that shift greater responsibility for care to individuals through greater exclusions and copayment and deductible amounts. prior to the health reform law being fully implemented, our facilities may experience growth in bad debts, uninsured discounts and charity care as a result of a number of factors, including the economic downturn and continued high unemployment. the health reform law seeks to decrease, over time, the number of uninsured individuals through reforms that mostly will become effective january 1, 2014, provided the law is not found to be unconstitutional or otherwise revised. even after full implementation of the health reform law, we may continue to experience bad debts and have to provide uninsured discounts and charity care for undocumented aliens who are not permitted to enroll in a health insurance exchange or government health care programs and certain others who may not have insurance coverage. further, implementation of the health reform law could result in some patients terminating their current insurance plans in favor of lower cost medicaid plans or other insurance coverage with lower reimbursement levels. patient responsibility accounts may continue to increase even with expanded health plan coverage as a result of increases in plan exclusions and deductibles and copayment amounts. it is difficult to predict the full impact of the health reform law due to the law complexity, lack of implementing regulations or interpretive guidance, gradual and potentially delayed implementation, pending court challenges and possible amendment or repeal, as well as our inability to foresee how individuals and businesses will respond to the choices afforded them by the law. changes in government health care programs may adversely affect our revenues. a significant portion of our patient volume is derived from government health care programs, principally medicare and medicaid. specifically, we derived 44.5% of our revenues from the medicare and medicaid programs in 2011. changes in government health care programs may reduce the reimbursement we receive and could adversely affect our business and results of operations. in recent years, legislative and regulatory changes have resulted in limitations on and, in some cases, reductions in levels of payments to health care providers for certain services under the medicare program. the budget control act of 2011 (the bca ) provides for new spending on program integrity initiatives intended to reduce fraud and abuse under the medicare program. further, pursuant to the bca, a bipartisan joint congressional committee was created to identify additional deficit reductions. because the committee failed to propose a plan to cut the deficit by an additional $1.2 trillion by the november 23, 2011, deadline, the bca requires automatic spending reductions of $1.2 trillion for federal fiscal years 2013 through 2021, minus any deficit reductions enacted by congress and debt service costs. however, the percentage reduction for medicare may not be more than 2% for a fiscal year, with a uniform percentage reduction across all medicare programs. we are unable to predict how these spending reductions will be structured, what other deficit reduction initiatives may be proposed by congress or whether congress will attempt to suspend or restructure the automatic budget cuts. these reductions will be in addition to reductions mandated by the health reform law, which provides for material reductions in the growth of medicare program spending, including reductions in medicare market basket updates and medicare dsh funding. further, from time to time, cms revises the reimbursement systems used to reimburse health care providers, including changes to the ms-drg system and other payment systems, which may result in reduced medicare payments. since most states must operate with balanced budgets and since the medicaid program is often a state largest program, some states have enacted or may consider enacting legislation designed to reduce their medicaid expenditures. further, many states have also adopted, or are considering, legislation designed to reduce coverage, enroll medicaid recipients in managed care programs and/or impose additional taxes on hospitals to help finance or expand the states medicaid systems. the current economic environment has increased the budgetary pressures on many states, and these budgetary pressures have resulted, and likely will continue to result, in decreased spending, or decreased spending growth, for medicaid programs and the children health insurance 42 table of contents program in many states. for example, in may 2011, the florida legislature passed a budget agreement for the fiscal year beginning july 1, 2011 that reduces medicaid reimbursements to hospitals. as a result, we estimate that florida medicaid payments to our hospitals may be reduced by approximately $35 million during the first half of calendar year 2012. additionally, the texas legislature passed a budget agreement effective september 1, 2011 that reduces medicaid reimbursements to hospitals. as a result, we estimate that texas medicaid payments to our hospitals may be reduced by approximately $60 million in 2012. some states that provide medicaid supplemental payments are reviewing these programs or have filed waiver requests with cms to replace these programs, which could result in medicaid supplemental payments being reduced or eliminated. cms approved a medicaid waiver in december 2011 that allows texas to continue receiving supplemental medicaid reimbursement while expanding its medicaid managed care program. however, we cannot predict whether the texas private supplemental medicaid waiver program will continue or guarantee that revenues recognized from the program will not decrease. the health reform law has changed and will likely result in additional changes to the medicaid program. for example, the health reform law provides for material reductions to medicaid dsh funding. effective march 23, 2010, the health reform law requires states to at least maintain medicaid eligibility standards established prior to the enactment of the law for adults until january 1, 2014 and for children until october 1, 2019. however, states with budget deficits may seek a waiver from this requirement to address eligibility standards that apply to adults making more than 133% of the federal poverty level. the health reform law also provides for significant expansions to the medicaid program, but these changes are not required until 2014. in addition, the health reform law will result in increased state legislative and regulatory changes in order for states to comply with new federal mandates, such as the requirement to establish exchanges, and to participate in grants and other incentive opportunities. in some cases, commercial third-party payers rely on all or portions of medicare payment systems to determine payment rates. changes to government health care programs that reduce payments under these programs may negatively impact payments from commercial third-party payers. current or future health care reform and deficit reduction efforts, changes in laws or regulations regarding government health care programs, other changes in the administration of government health care programs and changes to commercial third-party payers in response to health care reform and other changes to government health care programs could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. we are unable to predict the impact of the health reform law, which represents a significant change to the health care industry. as enacted, the health reform law will change how health care services are covered, delivered, and reimbursed through expanded coverage of uninsured individuals, reduced growth in medicare program spending, reductions in medicare and medicaid dsh payments and the establishment of programs where reimbursement is tied to quality and integration. in addition, the law reforms certain aspects of health insurance, expands existing efforts to tie medicare and medicaid payments to performance and quality, and contains provisions intended to strengthen fraud and abuse enforcement. the expansion of health insurance coverage under the health reform law may result in a material increase in the number of patients using our facilities who have either private or public program coverage. in addition, a disproportionately large percentage of the new medicaid coverage is likely to be in states that currently have relatively low income eligibility requirements. two such states are texas and florida, where about one-half of the company licensed beds are located. the company also has a significant presence in other relatively low income eligibility states, including georgia, kansas, louisiana, missouri, oklahoma and virginia. further, the health reform law provides for a value-based purchasing program, the establishment of acos and bundled payment pilot programs, which will create possible sources of additional revenue. 43 table of contents however, it is difficult to predict the size of the potential revenue gains to the company as a result of these elements of the health reform law, because of uncertainty surrounding a number of material factors, including the following: how many previously uninsured individuals will obtain coverage as a result of the health reform law (while the cbo estimates 32 million by 2016 and 34 million by 2021, cms estimates almost 34 million by 2019; both agencies made a number of assumptions to derive that figure, including how many individuals will ignore substantial subsidies and decide to pay the penalty rather than obtain health insurance and what percentage of people in the future will meet the new medicaid income eligibility requirements); what percentage of the newly insured patients will be covered under the medicaid program and what percentage will be covered by private health insurers; the extent to which states will enroll new medicaid participants in managed care programs; the pace at which insurance coverage expands, including the pace of different types of coverage expansion; the change, if any, in the volume of inpatient and outpatient hospital services that are sought by and provided to previously uninsured individuals; the rate paid to hospitals by private payers for newly covered individuals, including those covered through the newly created exchanges and those who might be covered under the medicaid program under contracts with the state; the rate paid by state governments under the medicaid program for newly covered individuals; the effect of the value-based purchasing program on our hospitals revenues and the effects of other quality programs; the percentage of individuals in the exchanges who select the high deductible plans, since health insurers offering those kinds of products have traditionally sought to pay lower rates to hospitals; whether the net effect of the health reform law, including the prohibition on excluding individuals based on pre-existing conditions, the requirement to keep medical costs at or above a specified minimum percentage of premium revenue, other health insurance reforms and the annual fee applied to all health insurers, will be to put pressure on the bottom line of health insurers, which in turn might cause them to seek to reduce payments to hospitals with respect to both newly insured individuals and their existing business; and the possibility that implementation of the provisions expanding health insurance coverage or the entire health reform law will be delayed, revised or eliminated as a result of court challenges and efforts to repeal or amend the law. numerous lawsuits have challenged the constitutionality of the health reform law. some federal courts have upheld the constitutionality of the health reform law or dismissed cases on procedural grounds. others have held unconstitutional the requirement that individuals maintain health insurance or pay a penalty and have either found the health reform law void in its entirety or left the remainder of the law intact. the u.s. supreme court is expected to decide the constitutionality of the health reform law in 2012. in addition, repeal of the health reform law has become a theme in political campaigns during this election year. 44 table of contents on the other hand, the health reform law provides for significant reductions in the growth of medicare spending, reductions in medicare and medicaid dsh payments and the establishment of programs where reimbursement is tied to quality and integration. since 44.5% of our revenues in 2011 were from medicare and medicaid, reductions to these programs may significantly impact the company and could offset any positive effects of the health reform law. it is difficult to predict the size of the revenue reductions to medicare and medicaid spending, because of uncertainty regarding a number of material factors, including the following: the amount of overall revenues the company will generate from medicare and medicaid business when the reductions are implemented; whether reductions required by the health reform law will be changed by statute or by judicial decision prior to becoming effective; the size of the health reform law annual productivity adjustment to the market basket; the amount of the medicare dsh reductions that will be made, commencing in federal fiscal year 2014; the allocation to our hospitals of the medicaid dsh reductions, commencing in federal fiscal year 2014; what the losses in revenues will be, if any, from the health reform law quality initiatives; how successful acos will be at coordinating care and reducing costs or whether they will decrease reimbursement; the scope and nature of potential changes to medicare reimbursement methods, such as an emphasis on bundling payments or coordination of care programs; whether the company revenues from upper payment limit ( upl ) programs, or other medicaid supplemental programs developed through a federally approved waiver program ( waiver program ), will be adversely affected because there may be reductions in available state and local government funding for the programs; and reductions to medicare payments cms may impose for excessive readmissions. because of the many variables involved, we are unable to predict the net effect on the company of the expected increases in insured individuals using our facilities, reductions in medicare spending, reductions in medicare and medicaid dsh funding, and numerous other provisions in the health reform law that may affect the company. further, it is unclear how efforts to repeal or revise the health reform law and federal lawsuits challenging its constitutionality will be resolved or what the impact would be of any resulting changes to the law. if we are unable to retain and negotiate favorable contracts with nongovernment payers, including managed care plans, our revenues may be reduced. our ability to obtain favorable contracts with nongovernment payers, including hmos, ppos and other managed care plans significantly affects the revenues and operating results of our facilities. revenues derived from these entities and other insurers accounted for 52.9% and 52.7% of our revenues for 2011 and 2010, respectively. nongovernment payers, including managed care payers, continue to demand discounted fee structures, and the trend toward consolidation among nongovernment payers tends to increase their bargaining power over fee structures. as various provisions of the health reform law are implemented, including the establishment of the exchanges, nongovernment payers increasingly may demand reduced fees. our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to retain and renew our managed care contracts and enter into new managed care contracts on terms favorable to us. other health care providers may impact our ability to enter into managed care contracts or negotiate increases in our reimbursement and other favorable terms and conditions. for example, some of our competitors may negotiate exclusivity provisions with managed care plans or otherwise restrict the ability of managed care companies to contract with us. it is not clear what impact, if any, the increased obligations on managed care payers and other payers imposed by the health reform law will have on our ability to negotiate reimbursement increases. if we are unable to retain and negotiate favorable contracts with managed care plans or experience reductions in payment increases or amounts received from nongovernment payers, our revenues may be reduced. 45 table of contents our performance depends on our ability to recruit and retain quality physicians. the success of our hospitals depends in part on the number and quality of the physicians on the medical staffs of our hospitals, the admitting and utilization practices of those physicians, maintaining good relations with those physicians and controlling costs related to the employment of physicians. although we employ some physicians, physicians are often not employees of the hospitals at which they practice and, in many of the markets we serve, most physicians have admitting privileges at other hospitals in addition to our hospitals. such physicians may terminate their affiliation with our hospitals at any time. if we are unable to provide adequate support personnel or technologically advanced equipment and hospital facilities that meet the needs of those physicians and their patients, they may be discouraged from referring patients to our facilities, admissions may decrease and our operating performance may decline. our hospitals face competition for staffing, which may increase labor costs and reduce profitability. our operations are dependent on the efforts, abilities and experience of our management and medical support personnel, such as nurses, pharmacists and lab technicians, as well as our physicians. we compete with other health care providers in recruiting and retaining qualified management and support personnel responsible for the daily operations of each of our hospitals, including nurses and other nonphysician health care professionals. in some markets, the availability of nurses and other medical support personnel has been a significant operating issue to health care providers. we may be required to continue to enhance wages and benefits to recruit and retain nurses and other medical support personnel or to hire more expensive temporary or contract personnel. as a result, our labor costs could increase. we also depend on the available labor pool of semi-skilled and unskilled employees in each of the markets in which we operate. certain proposed changes in federal labor laws and the nlrb modification of its election procedures could increase the likelihood of employee unionization attempts. to the extent a significant portion of our employee base unionizes, it is possible our labor costs could increase materially. when negotiating collective bargaining agreements with unions, whether such agreements are renewals or first contracts, there is the possibility that strikes could occur during the negotiation process, and our continued operation during any strikes could increase our labor costs. in addition, the states in which we operate could adopt mandatory nurse-staffing ratios or could reduce mandatory nurse staffing ratios already in place. state-mandated nurse-staffing ratios could significantly affect labor costs and have an adverse impact on revenues if we are required to limit admissions in order to meet the required ratios. if our labor costs increase, we may not be able to raise rates to offset these increased costs. because a significant percentage of our revenues consists of fixed, prospective payments, our ability to pass along increased labor costs is constrained. our failure to recruit and retain qualified management, nurses and other medical support personnel, or to control labor costs, could have a material, adverse effect on our results of operations. if we fail to comply with extensive laws and government regulations, we could suffer penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations. the health care industry is required to comply with extensive and complex laws and regulations at the federal, state and local government levels relating to, among other things: billing and coding for services and properly handling overpayments; classification of level of care provided, including proper classification of inpatient admissions, observation services and outpatient care; relationships with physicians and other referral sources; necessity and adequacy of medical care; quality of medical equipment and services; qualifications of medical and support personnel; confidentiality, maintenance, data breach, identity theft and security issues associated with health-related and personal information and medical records; 46 table of contents screening, stabilization and transfer of individuals who have emergency medical conditions; licensure and certification; hospital rate or budget review; preparing and filing of cost reports; operating policies and procedures; activities regarding competitors; and addition of facilities and services. among these laws are the federal anti-kickback statute, the federal stark law, the federal fca and similar state laws. we have a variety of financial relationships with physicians and others who either refer or influence the referral of patients to our hospitals and other health care facilities, and these laws govern those relationships. the oig has enacted safe harbor regulations that outline practices deemed protected from prosecution under the anti-kickback statute. while we endeavor to comply with the applicable safe harbors, certain of our current arrangements, including joint ventures and financial relationships with physicians and other referral sources and persons and entities to which we refer patients, do not qualify for safe harbor protection. failure to qualify for a safe harbor does not mean the arrangement necessarily violates the anti-kickback statute but may subject the arrangement to greater scrutiny. however, we cannot offer assurance that practices outside of a safe harbor will not be found to violate the anti-kickback statute. allegations of violations of the anti-kickback statute may be brought under the federal civil monetary penalty law, which requires a lower burden of proof than other fraud and abuse laws, including the anti-kickback statute. our financial relationships with referring physicians and their immediate family members must comply with the stark law by meeting an exception. we attempt to structure our relationships to meet an exception to the stark law, but the regulations implementing the exceptions are detailed and complex, and we cannot provide assurance that every relationship complies fully with the stark law. unlike the anti-kickback statute, failure to meet an exception under the stark law results in a violation of the stark law, even if such violation is technical in nature. additionally, if we violate the anti-kickback statute or stark law, or if we improperly bill for our services, we may be found to violate the fca, either under a suit brought by the government or by a private person under a qui tam , or whistleblower, suit. see item 1, business regulation and other factors. if we fail to comply with the anti-kickback statute, the stark law, the fca or other applicable laws and regulations, we could be subjected to liabilities, including civil penalties (including the loss of our licenses to operate one or more facilities), exclusion of one or more facilities from participation in the medicare, medicaid and other federal and state health care programs and, for violations of certain laws and regulations, criminal penalties. we do not always have the benefit of significant regulatory or judicial interpretation of these laws and regulations. in the future, different interpretations or enforcement of, or amendment to, these laws and regulations could subject our current or past practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality or could require us to make changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel, services, capital expenditure programs and operating expenses. a determination that we have violated these laws, or the public announcement that we are being investigated for possible violations of these laws, could have a material, adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects, and our business reputation could suffer significantly. in addition, other legislation or regulations at the federal or state level may be adopted that adversely affect our business. we have been and could become the subject of governmental investigations, claims and litigation. health care companies are subject to numerous investigations by various governmental agencies. further, under the fca, private parties have the right to bring qui tam , or whistleblower, suits against companies that 47 table of contents submit false claims for payments to, or improperly retain overpayments from, the government. some states have adopted similar state whistleblower and false claims provisions. certain of our individual facilities have received, and other facilities may receive, government inquiries from, and may be subject to investigation by, federal and state agencies. depending on whether the underlying conduct in these or future inquiries or investigations could be considered systemic, their resolution could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. governmental agencies and their agents, such as the medicare administrative contractors, fiscal intermediaries and carriers, as well as the oig, cms and state medicaid programs, conduct audits of our health care operations. private payers may conduct similar post-payment audits, and we also perform internal audits and monitoring. depending on the nature of the conduct found in such audits and whether the underlying conduct could be considered systemic, the resolution of these audits could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. as required by statute, cms has implemented the rac program on a nationwide basis. under the program, cms contracts with racs on a contingency fee basis to conduct post-payment reviews to detect and correct improper payments in the fee-for-service medicare program. the health reform law expands the rac program scope to include managed medicare plans and to include medicaid claims. in addition, cms employs mics to perform post-payment audits of medicaid claims and identify overpayments. the health reform law increases federal funding for the mic program. in addition to racs and mics, the state medicaid agencies and other contractors have increased their review activities. should we be found out of compliance with any of these laws, regulations or programs, depending on the nature of the findings, our business, our financial position and our results of operations could be negatively impacted. physician utilization practices and treatment methodologies or governmental or managed care controls designed to reduce inpatient services or surgical procedures may reduce our revenues. controls imposed by medicare, managed medicare, medicaid, managed medicaid and commercial third-party payers designed to reduce admissions, intensity of services, surgical volumes and lengths of stay, in some instances referred to as utilization review, have affected and are expected to continue to affect our facilities. utilization review entails the review of the admission and course of treatment of a patient by health plans. inpatient utilization, average lengths of stay and occupancy rates continue to be negatively affected by payer-required preadmission authorization and utilization review and by payer pressure to maximize outpatient and alternative health care delivery services for less acutely ill patients. efforts to impose more stringent cost controls are expected to continue. for example, the health reform law potentially expands the use of prepayment review by medicare contractors by eliminating statutory restrictions on their use. although we are unable to predict the effect these changes will have on our operations, significant limits on the scope of services reimbursed and on reimbursement rates and fees could have a material, adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. additionally, trends in physician treatment protocols and managed care health plan design, such as plans that shift increased costs and accountability for care to patients, could reduce our surgical volumes and admissions in favor of lower intensity and lower cost treatment methodologies. our overall business results may suffer from the economic downturn. during periods of high unemployment, governmental entities often experience budget deficits as a result of increased costs and lower than expected tax collections. these budget deficits at federal, state and local government entities have decreased, and may continue to decrease, spending for health and human service programs, including medicare, medicaid and similar programs, which represent significant payer sources for our hospitals. other risks we face during periods of high unemployment include potential declines in the population covered under managed care agreements, patient decisions to postpone or cancel elective and non-emergency health care procedures (including delaying surgical procedures), potential increases in the uninsured and underinsured populations and further difficulties in our collecting patient copayment and deductible receivables. 48 table of contents the industry trend towards value-based purchasing may negatively impact our revenues. there is a trend in the health care industry towards value-based purchasing of health care services. these value-based purchasing programs include both public reporting of quality data and preventable adverse events tied to the quality and efficiency of care provided by facilities. governmental programs including medicare currently require hospitals to report certain quality data to receive full reimbursement updates. in addition, medicare does not reimburse for care related to certain preventable adverse events (also called never events ). many large commercial payers currently require hospitals to report quality data, and several commercial payers do not reimburse hospitals for certain preventable adverse events. further, we have implemented a policy pursuant to which we do not bill patients or third-party payers for fees or expenses incurred due to certain preventable adverse events. effective july 1, 2011, the health reform law also prohibits the use of federal funds under the medicaid program to reimburse providers for medical assistance provided to treat hacs. beginning in federal fiscal year 2015, the 25% of hospitals with the worst national risk-adjusted hac rates in the previous year will receive a 1% reduction in their total inpatient operating medicare payments. beginning in fiscal year 2013, hospitals with excessive readmissions for conditions designated by hhs will receive a reduction of 1% in operating payments for all inpatient discharges, not just discharges relating to the conditions subject to the excessive readmission standard. this rate will increase by 1% each year up to 3% in federal fiscal year 2015. the health reform law also requires hhs to implement a value-based purchasing program for inpatient hospital services. the health reform law requires hhs to reduce inpatient hospital payments for all discharges by a percentage beginning at 1% in federal fiscal year 2013 and increasing by 0.25% each fiscal year up to 2% in federal fiscal year 2017 and subsequent years. hhs will pool the amount collected from these reductions to fund payments to reward hospitals that meet or exceed certain quality performance standards established by hhs. according to the value-based purchasing program final rule, cms estimates that it will distribute $850 million to hospitals in federal fiscal year 2013 based on their achievement (relative to other hospitals) and improvement ranges (relative to the hospital own past performance). hospitals that meet or exceed the quality performance standards will receive greater reimbursement under the value-based purchasing program than they would have otherwise. we expect value-based purchasing programs, including programs that condition reimbursement on patient outcome measures, to become more common and to involve a higher percentage of reimbursement amounts. we are unable at this time to predict how this trend will affect our results of operations, but it could negatively impact our revenues. our operations could be impaired by a failure of our information systems. any system failure that causes an interruption in service or availability of our systems could adversely affect operations or delay the collection of revenues. even though we have implemented network security measures, our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering. the occurrence of any of these events could result in interruptions, delays, the loss or corruption of data, cessations in the availability of systems or liability under privacy and security laws, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations and harm our business reputation. the performance of our information technology and systems is critical to our business operations. in addition to our shared services initiatives, our information systems are essential to a number of critical areas of our operations, including: accounting and financial reporting; billing and collecting accounts; coding and compliance; 49 table of contents clinical systems; medical records and document storage; inventory management; negotiating, pricing and administering managed care contracts and supply contracts; and monitoring quality of care and collecting data on quality measures necessary for full medicare payment updates. if we fail to effectively and timely implement electronic health record systems and transition to the icd-10 coding system, our operations could be adversely affected. as required by arra, the secretary of hhs has developed and implemented an incentive payment program for eligible hospitals and health care professionals that adopt and meaningfully use certified ehr technology. hhs uses the provider enrollment, chain and ownership system ( pecos ) to verify medicare enrollment prior to making ehr incentive program payments. during 2011, we received medicare and medicaid incentive payments for being a meaningful user of certified ehr technology and recorded incentive income of $210 million for the year. ehr incentive income for our eligible hospitals and professionals is estimated to range from $325 million to $350 million for 2012. actual incentive payments could vary from our estimates due to certain factors such as availability of federal funding for both medicare and medicaid incentive payments, timing of the approval of state medicaid incentive payment plans by cms and our ability to continue to demonstrate meaningful use of certified ehr technology. we have incurred and will continue to incur both capital costs and operating expenses in order to implement our certified ehr technology and meet meaningful use requirements. these expenses are ongoing and are projected to continue over all stages of implementation of meaningful use. the timing of expenses will not correlate with the receipt of the incentive payments and the recognition of incentive income. during 2011, we incurred $77 million of operating expenses to implement our certified ehr technology and to meet meaningful use. we estimate that operating expenses to implement our certified ehr technology and meet meaningful use will range from $140 million to $160 million for 2012. actual operating expenses could vary from these estimates. if our eligible hospitals and employed professionals are unable to meet the requirements for participation in the incentive payment program, including having an enrollment record in pecos, we will not be eligible to receive incentive payments that could offset some of the costs of implementing ehr systems. further, eligible providers that fail to demonstrate meaningful use of certified ehr technology will be subject to reduced payments from medicare, beginning in federal fiscal year 2015 for eligible hospitals and calendar year 2015 for eligible professionals. failure to implement certified ehr systems effectively and in a timely manner could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. health plans and providers, including our hospitals, are required to transition to the new icd-10 coding system, which greatly expands the number and detail of billing codes used for inpatient claims. under current regulations, use of the icd-10 system is required beginning october 1, 2013, but cms has announced its intent to extend this deadline. transition to the new icd-10 system requires significant investment in coding technology and software as well as the training of staff involved in the coding and billing process. in addition to these upfront costs of transition to icd-10, it is possible that our hospitals could experience disruption or delays in payment due to technical or coding errors or other implementation issues involving our systems or the systems and implementation efforts of health plans and their business partners. further, the transition to the more detailed icd-10 coding system could result in decreased reimbursement if the use of icd-10 codes results in conditions being reclassified to ms-drgs or commercial payer payment groupings with lower levels of reimbursement than assigned under the previous system. state efforts to regulate the construction or expansion of health care facilities could impair our ability to operate and expand our operations. some states, particularly in the eastern part of the country, require health care providers to obtain prior approval, known as a con, for the purchase, construction or expansion of health care facilities, to make certain 50 table of contents capital expenditures or to make changes in services or bed capacity. in giving approval, these states consider the need for additional or expanded health care facilities or services. we currently operate health care facilities in a number of states with con laws. the failure to obtain any requested con could impair our ability to operate or expand operations. any such failure could, in turn, adversely affect our ability to attract patients and physicians to our facilities and grow our revenues, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. our facilities are heavily concentrated in florida and texas, which makes us sensitive to regulatory, economic, environmental and competitive conditions and changes in those states. we operated 163 hospitals at december 31, 2011, and 75 of those hospitals are located in florida and texas. our florida and texas facilities combined revenues represented approximately 50% of our consolidated revenues for the year ended december 31, 2011. this concentration makes us particularly sensitive to regulatory, economic, environmental and competitive conditions and changes in those states. any material change in the current payment programs or regulatory, economic, environmental or competitive conditions in those states could have a disproportionate effect on our overall business results. in addition, our hospitals in florida, texas and other areas across the gulf coast are located in hurricane-prone areas. in the past, hurricanes have had a disruptive effect on the operations of our hospitals in florida, texas and other coastal states, and the patient populations in those states. our business activities could be harmed by a particularly active hurricane season or even a single storm, and the property insurance we obtain may not be adequate to cover losses from future hurricanes or other natural disasters. we may be subject to liabilities from claims by the internal revenue service. we are currently contesting certain claimed deficiencies and adjustments proposed by the irs examination division in connection with its audit of hca inc. 2005 and 2006 federal income tax returns. the disputed items include the timing of recognition of certain patient service revenues, the deductibility of certain debt retirement costs and our method for calculating the tax allowance for doubtful accounts. the irs examination division began an audit of hca inc. 2007, 2008 and 2009 federal income tax returns in 2010. management believes hca holdings, inc., its predecessors, subsidiaries and affiliates properly reported taxable income and paid taxes in accordance with applicable laws and agreements established with the irs and final resolution of these disputes will not have a material, adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. however, if payments due upon final resolution of these issues exceed our recorded estimates, such resolutions could have a material, adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. we may be subject to liabilities from claims brought against our facilities. we are subject to litigation relating to our business practices, including claims and legal actions by patients and others in the ordinary course of business alleging malpractice, product liability or other legal theories. many of these actions involve large claims and significant defense costs. we insure a portion of our professional liability risks through a wholly-owned subsidiary. management believes our reserves for self-insured retentions and insurance coverage are sufficient to cover insured claims arising out of the operation of our facilities. our wholly-owned insurance subsidiary has entered into certain reinsurance contracts, and the obligations covered by the reinsurance contracts are included in its reserves for professional liability risks, as the subsidiary remains liable to the extent that the reinsurers do not meet their obligations under the reinsurance contracts. if payments for claims exceed actuarially determined estimates, are not covered by insurance, or reinsurers, if any, fail to meet their obligations, our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected. we are exposed to market risks related to changes in the market values of securities and interest rate changes. we are exposed to market risk related to changes in market values of securities. the investments in debt and equity securities of our wholly-owned insurance subsidiaries were $621 million and $7 million, respectively, at 51 table of contents december 31, 2011. these investments are carried at fair value, with changes in unrealized gains and losses being recorded as adjustments to other comprehensive income. at december 31, 2011, we had a net unrealized gain of $11 million on the insurance subsidiaries investment securities. we are exposed to market risk related to market illiquidity. investments in debt and equity securities of our wholly-owned insurance subsidiaries could be impaired by the inability to access the capital markets. should the wholly-owned insurance subsidiaries require significant amounts of cash in excess of normal cash requirements to pay claims and other expenses on short notice, we may have difficulty selling these investments in a timely manner or be forced to sell them at a price less than what we might otherwise have been able to in a normal market environment. we may be required to recognize other-than-temporary impairments on long-term investments in future periods should issuers default on interest payments or should the fair market valuations of the securities deteriorate due to ratings downgrades or other issue specific factors. we are also exposed to market risk related to changes in interest rates, and we periodically enter into interest rate swap agreements to manage our exposure to these fluctuations. our interest rate swap agreements involve the exchange of fixed and variable rate interest payments between two parties, based on common notional principal amounts and maturity dates. the notional amounts of the swap agreements represent balances used to calculate the exchange of cash flows and are not our assets or liabilities. the investors control us and may have conflicts of interest with us in the future. as of december 31, 2011, the investors indirectly owned approximately 62% of our capital stock. as a result, the investors have control over our decisions to enter into any significant corporate transaction and have the ability to prevent any transaction that requires the approval of stockholders. for example, the investors could cause us to make acquisitions that increase the amount of our indebtedness or sell assets. additionally, the investors are in the business of making investments in companies and may acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. one or more of the investors may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. so long as investment funds associated with or designated by the investors continue to indirectly own a significant amount of the outstanding shares of our common stock, even if such amount is less than 50%, the investors will continue to be able to strongly influence or effectively control our decisions. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 85 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information with respect to this item is provided under the caption market risk under item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations.risk factors 39 risk factors if any of the events discussed in the following risk factors were to occur, our business, financial position, results of operations, cash flows or prospects could be materially, adversely affected. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known, or currently deemed immaterial, may also constrain our business and operations. our substantial leverage could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry, expose us to interest rate risk to the extent of our variable rate debt and prevent us from meeting our obligations. we are highly leveraged. as of december 31, 2012, our total indebtedness was $28.930 billion. as of december 31, 2012, we had availability of $1.934 billion under our senior secured revolving credit facility and $1.030 billion under our asset-based revolving credit facility, after giving effect to letters of credit and borrowing base limitations. our high degree of leverage could have important consequences, including: increasing our vulnerability to downturns or adverse changes in general economic, industry or competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulations; requiring a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, therefore reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities; exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our unhedged borrowings are at variable rates of interest; limiting our ability to make strategic acquisitions or causing us to make nonstrategic divestitures; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product or service line development, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who are less highly leveraged. we and our subsidiaries have the ability to incur additional indebtedness in the future, subject to the restrictions contained in our senior secured credit facilities and the indentures governing our outstanding notes. if new indebtedness is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could intensify. we may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may not be able to refinance our indebtedness on favorable terms. if we are unable to do so, we may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. we cannot assure you we will maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. in addition, we conduct our operations through our subsidiaries. accordingly, repayment of our indebtedness is dependent on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise. our subsidiaries may not be able to, or may not be 39 table of contents permitted to, make distributions to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness. each subsidiary is a distinct legal entity, and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. we may find it necessary or prudent to refinance our outstanding indebtedness with longer-maturity debt at a higher interest rate. our ability to refinance our indebtedness on favorable terms, or at all, is directly affected by the current global economic and financial conditions. in addition, our ability to incur secured indebtedness (which would generally enable us to achieve better pricing than the incurrence of unsecured indebtedness) depends in part on the value of our assets, which depends, in turn, on the strength of our cash flows and results of operations, and on economic and market conditions and other factors. if our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations or we are unable to refinance our indebtedness, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure our indebtedness. these alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. if our operating results and available cash are insufficient to meet our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. we may not be able to consummate those dispositions, or the proceeds from the dispositions may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. our debt agreements contain restrictions that limit our flexibility in operating our business. our senior secured credit facilities and the indentures governing our outstanding notes contain various covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions. these covenants limit our and certain of our subsidiaries ability to, among other things: incur additional indebtedness or issue certain preferred shares; pay dividends on, repurchase or make distributions in respect of our capital stock or make other restricted payments; make certain investments; sell or transfer assets; create liens; consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and enter into certain transactions with our affiliates. under our asset-based revolving credit facility, when (and for as long as) the combined availability under our asset-based revolving credit facility and our senior secured revolving credit facility is less than a specified amount for a certain period of time or, if a payment or bankruptcy event of default has occurred and is continuing, funds deposited into any of our depository accounts will be transferred on a daily basis into a blocked account with the administrative agent and applied to prepay loans under the asset-based revolving credit facility and to cash collateralize letters of credit issued thereunder. under our senior secured credit facilities, we are required to satisfy and maintain specified financial ratios. our ability to meet those financial ratios can be affected by events beyond our control, and there can be no assurance we will continue to meet those ratios. a breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under both the cash flow credit facility and the asset-based revolving credit facility. upon the occurrence of an event of default under the senior secured credit facilities, the lenders thereunder could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the senior secured credit facilities to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. if we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under the senior secured credit facilities could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure such indebtedness. we have pledged a significant portion of our assets under our senior secured credit facilities and that collateral (other 40 table of contents than certain european collateral securing our senior secured european term loan facility) is also pledged as collateral under our first lien notes. if any of the lenders under the senior secured credit facilities accelerate the repayment of borrowings, there can be no assurance there will be sufficient assets to repay the senior secured credit facilities, the first lien notes and our other indebtedness. our hospitals face competition for patients from other hospitals and health care providers. the health care business is highly competitive, and competition among hospitals and other health care providers for patients has intensified in recent years. generally, other hospitals in the local communities we serve provide services similar to those offered by our hospitals. in addition, cms publicizes on its hospital compare website performance data related to quality measures and data on patient satisfaction surveys hospitals submit in connection with their medicare reimbursement. federal law provides for the future expansion of the number of quality measures that must be reported. additional quality measures and future trends toward clinical transparency may have an unanticipated impact on our competitive position and patient volumes. further, the health reform law requires every hospital to establish and update annually a public listing of the hospital standard charges for items and services. if any of our hospitals achieve poor results (or results that are lower than our competitors) on these quality measures or on patient satisfaction surveys or if our standard charges are higher than our competitors, our patient volumes could decline. in addition, the number of freestanding specialty hospitals, surgery centers, emergency departments, urgent care centers and diagnostic and imaging centers in the geographic areas in which we operate has increased significantly. as a result, most of our hospitals operate in a highly competitive environment. some of the facilities that compete with our hospitals are physician-owned or are owned by governmental agencies or not-for-profit corporations supported by endowments, charitable contributions and/or tax revenues and can finance capital expenditures and operations on a tax-exempt basis. our hospitals face competition from competitors that are implementing physician alignment strategies, such as employing physicians, acquiring physician practice groups and participating in acos or other clinical integration models. our hospitals compete with specialty hospitals and with both our own and unaffiliated freestanding surgery centers for market share in certain high margin services and for quality physicians and personnel. if ambulatory surgery centers are better able to compete in this environment than our hospitals, our hospitals may experience a decline in patient volume, and we may experience a decrease in margin, even if those patients use our ambulatory surgery centers. in states that do not require a con for the purchase, construction or expansion of health care facilities or services, competition in the form of new services, facilities and capital spending is more prevalent. further, if our competitors are better able to attract patients, make capital expenditures and maintain modern and technologically upgraded facilities and equipment, recruit physicians, expand services or obtain favorable managed care contracts at their facilities than our hospitals and ambulatory surgery centers, we may experience an overall decline in patient volume. see item 1, business competition. the growth of uninsured and patient due accounts and a deterioration in the collectibility of these accounts could adversely affect our results of operations. the primary collection risks of our accounts receivable relate to the uninsured patient accounts and patient accounts for which the primary insurance carrier has paid the amounts covered by the applicable agreement, but patient responsibility amounts (exclusions, deductibles and copayments) remain outstanding. the provision for doubtful accounts relates primarily to amounts due directly from patients. although medicare reimburses hospitals for a portion of medicare bad debts, the jobs creation act reduced the reimbursement level from 70% of eligible bad debts to 65% beginning in federal fiscal year 2013. the amount of the provision for doubtful accounts is based upon management assessment of historical write-offs and expected net collections, business and economic conditions, trends in federal and state governmental and private employer health care coverage, the rate of growth in uninsured patient admissions and 41 table of contents other collection indicators. at december 31, 2012, our allowance for doubtful accounts represented approximately 93% of the $5.228 billion patient due accounts receivable balance. the sum of the provision for doubtful accounts, uninsured discounts and charity care increased from $9.626 billion for 2010 to $11.214 billion for 2011 and to $13.841 billion for 2012. a continuation of the trends that have resulted in an increasing proportion of accounts receivable being comprised of uninsured accounts and a deterioration in the collectibility of these accounts will adversely affect our collection of accounts receivable, cash flows and results of operations. we may also be adversely affected by the growth in patient responsibility accounts as a result of increases in the adoption of plan structures, including health savings accounts, that shift greater responsibility for care to individuals through greater exclusions and copayment and deductible amounts. our facilities may experience growth in bad debts, uninsured discounts and charity care as a result of a number of factors, including the economic downturn and continued high unemployment. the health reform law seeks to decrease, over time, the number of uninsured individuals through reforms that mostly will become effective january 1, 2014. on june 28, 2012, the united states supreme court upheld the constitutionality of the individual mandate provisions of the health reform law but struck down the provisions that would have allowed hhs to penalize states that do not implement the medicaid expansion provisions with the loss of existing federal medicaid funding. as a result, states may choose not to implement the medicaid expansion. thus, even after full implementation of the health reform law, we may continue to experience bad debts and have to provide uninsured discounts and charity care for individuals residing in states that choose not to implement the medicaid expansion. we may also continue to experience bad debts and have to provide uninsured discounts and charity care for undocumented aliens who are not permitted to enroll in an exchange or government health care programs and certain others who may not have insurance coverage. further, implementation of the health reform law could result in some patients terminating their current insurance plans in favor of lower cost medicaid plans or other insurance coverage with lower reimbursement levels. patient responsibility accounts may continue to increase even with expanded health plan coverage as a result of increases in plan exclusions and deductibles and copayment amounts. it is difficult to predict the full impact of the health reform law due to the law complexity, lack of implementing regulations or interpretive guidance, gradual and potentially delayed implementation, court challenges and possible amendment or repeal, as well as our inability to foresee how individuals, states and businesses will respond to the choices afforded them by the law. changes in government health care programs may adversely affect our revenues. a significant portion of our patient volume is derived from government health care programs, principally medicare and medicaid. specifically, we derived 43% of our revenues from the medicare and medicaid programs in 2012. changes in government health care programs may reduce the reimbursement we receive and could adversely affect our business and results of operations. in recent years, legislative and regulatory changes have resulted in limitations on and, in some cases, reductions in levels of payments to health care providers for certain services under the medicare program. the budget control act of 2011 (the bca ) provides for new spending on program integrity initiatives intended to reduce fraud and abuse under the medicare program. the bca requires automatic spending reductions of $1.2 trillion for federal fiscal years 2013 through 2021, minus any deficit reductions enacted by congress and debt service costs. however, the percentage reduction for medicare may not be more than 2% for a fiscal year, with a uniform percentage reduction across all medicare programs. the american taxpayer relief act of 2012 delayed implementation of the bca. the president and congress continue to negotiate federal government spending reductions, but if action is not taken by march 1, 2013, the bca-mandated spending reductions will occur beginning april 1, 2013. it is possible that these negotiations will result only in another temporary compromise or will result in different spending reductions than required by the bca. we are unable to predict how these spending reductions will be structured, what other deficit reduction initiatives may be proposed by congress or whether congress will attempt to suspend or restructure the automatic budget cuts. these reductions will be in 42 table of contents addition to reductions mandated by the health reform law, which provides for material reductions in the growth of medicare program spending, including reductions in medicare market basket updates and medicare dsh funding. for example, we estimate that proposed changes to the distribution of medicare dsh payments as a result of the health reform law will reduce medicare dsh payments to our hospitals in the aggregate by approximately $200 million in federal fiscal year 2014. further, from time to time, cms revises the reimbursement systems used to reimburse health care providers, including changes to the ms-drg system and other payment systems, which may result in reduced medicare payments. because most states must operate with balanced budgets and because the medicaid program is often a state largest program, some states have enacted or may consider enacting legislation designed to reduce their medicaid expenditures. further, many states have also adopted, or are considering, legislation designed to reduce coverage, enroll medicaid recipients in managed care programs and/or impose additional taxes on hospitals to help finance or expand the states medicaid systems. the current economic environment has increased the budgetary pressures on many states, and these budgetary pressures have resulted, and likely will continue to result, in decreased spending, or decreased spending growth, for medicaid programs and the children health insurance program in many states. some states that provide medicaid supplemental payments are reviewing these programs or have filed waiver requests with cms to replace these programs, which could result in medicaid supplemental payments being reduced or eliminated. cms approved a medicaid waiver in december 2011 that allows texas to continue receiving supplemental medicaid reimbursement while expanding its medicaid managed care program. however, we cannot predict whether the texas private supplemental medicaid waiver program will continue or guarantee that revenues recognized from the program will not decrease. the health reform law made changes to the medicaid program and will likely cause additional changes in the future. for example, the health reform law provides for material reductions to medicaid dsh funding. the health reform law will result in increased state legislative and regulatory changes in order for states to comply with new federal mandates, such as the requirement to establish or participate in exchanges and to participate in grants and other incentive opportunities. the health reform law requires states to at least maintain the medicaid eligibility standards in effect prior to the enactment of the law for adults until january 1, 2014 and for children until october 1, 2019. however, states with budget deficits may seek a waiver from this requirement to address eligibility standards that apply to adults making more than 133% of the federal poverty level. the health reform law also provides for significant expansions to the medicaid program beginning in 2014. however, in its june 28, 2012 ruling, the united states supreme court struck down the portion of the health reform law that would have allowed hhs to penalize states that do not implement the medicaid expansion provisions with the loss of existing federal medicaid funding. thus, states may opt not to implement the expansion. in some cases, commercial third-party payers rely on all or portions of medicare payment systems to determine payment rates. changes to government health care programs that reduce payments under these programs may negatively impact payments from commercial third-party payers. current or future health care reform and deficit reduction efforts, changes in laws or regulations regarding government health care programs, other changes in the administration of government health care programs and changes to commercial third-party payers in response to health care reform and other changes to government health care programs could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. we are unable to predict the impact of the health reform law, which represents a significant change to the health care industry. as enacted, the health reform law will change how health care services are covered, delivered, and reimbursed through expanded coverage of uninsured individuals, reduced growth in medicare program spending, reductions in medicare and medicaid dsh payments and the establishment of programs where reimbursement is tied to quality and integration. in addition, the law reforms certain aspects of health insurance, expands existing efforts to tie medicare and medicaid payments to performance and quality, and contains provisions intended to 43 table of contents strengthen fraud and abuse enforcement. further, the health reform law provides for a value-based purchasing program, the establishment of acos and bundled payment pilot programs, which may create sources of additional revenue. on june 28, 2012, the united states supreme court upheld the constitutionality of the individual mandate provisions of the health reform law but struck down the provisions that would have allowed hhs to penalize states that do not implement the medicaid expansion provisions with the loss of existing federal medicaid funding. states that choose not to implement the medicaid expansion will forego funding established by the health reform law to cover most of the expansion costs. while the expansion of health insurance coverage under the health reform law may result in a material increase in the number of patients using our facilities who have either private or public program coverage, it is unclear how many states will decline to implement the medicaid expansion. those states with relatively low income eligibility requirements for medicaid may have the greatest financial incentives to implement the medicaid expansion. the company has a significant presence in several of these low income eligibility states, including florida, georgia, kansas, louisiana, missouri, oklahoma, texas and virginia. however, the governors of a number of states, including texas, in which a significant number of the company licensed beds are located, have announced their intentions to opt out of expanding their medicaid programs pursuant to the health reform law. these statements are not legally binding and may be subject to change. it is difficult to predict the size of the potential revenue gains to the company as a result of the expanded coverage, aco and bundled payment provisions of the health reform law because of uncertainty surrounding a number of material factors, including the following: how many states will implement the medicaid expansion provisions and under what terms; how many previously uninsured individuals will obtain coverage as a result of the health reform law (based on the cbo february 2013 estimates, by 2022, the health reform law will expand coverage to 27 million additional individuals); what percentage of the newly insured patients will be covered under the medicaid program and what percentage will be covered by private health insurers; the extent to which states will enroll new medicaid participants in managed care programs; the pace at which insurance coverage expands, including the pace of different types of coverage expansion; the change, if any, in the volume of inpatient and outpatient hospital services that are sought by and provided to previously uninsured individuals; the rate paid to hospitals by private payers for newly covered individuals, including those covered through the newly created exchanges and those who might be covered under the medicaid program under contracts with the state; the rate paid by state governments under the medicaid program for newly covered individuals; the effect of the value-based purchasing program on our hospitals revenues and the effects of other quality programs; the percentage of individuals in the exchanges who select the high deductible plans, since health insurers offering those kinds of products have traditionally sought to pay lower rates to hospitals; and whether the net effect of the health reform law, including the prohibition on excluding individuals based on pre-existing conditions, the requirement to keep medical costs at or above a specified minimum percentage of premium revenue, other health insurance reforms and the annual fee applied to all health insurers, will be to put pressure on the bottom line of health insurers, which in turn might cause them to seek to reduce payments to hospitals with respect to both newly insured individuals and their existing business. 44 table of contents on the other hand, because 43% of our revenues in 2012 were from medicare and medicaid, reductions to these programs and changes to reimbursement methodologies may significantly impact the company and could offset any positive effects of the health reform law. it is difficult to predict the size or impact of the reductions to medicare and medicaid spending and other reimbursement changes resulting from the health reform law because of uncertainty regarding a number of material factors, including the following: the amount of overall revenues the company will generate from medicare and medicaid business when the reductions are implemented; whether reductions required by the health reform law will be changed by statute or by judicial decision prior to becoming effective; the size of the health reform law annual productivity adjustment to the market basket; the amount of the medicare dsh reductions that will be made, commencing in federal fiscal year 2014; the allocation to our hospitals of the medicaid dsh reductions, commencing in federal fiscal year 2014; what the losses in revenues will be, if any, from the health reform law quality initiatives; how successful acos will be at coordinating care and reducing costs or whether they will decrease reimbursement; the scope and nature of potential changes to medicare reimbursement methods, such as an emphasis on bundling payments or coordination of care programs; whether the company revenues from upl programs, or other medicaid supplemental programs developed through a federally approved waiver program ( waiver program ), will be adversely affected because there may be reductions in available state and local government funding for the programs; and reductions to medicare payments cms may impose for excess readmissions. because of the many variables involved, we are unable to predict the net effect on the company of the expected increases in insured individuals using our facilities, reductions in medicare spending, reductions in medicare and medicaid dsh funding, and numerous other provisions in the health reform law that may affect the company. further, it is unclear how efforts to repeal or revise the health reform law and remaining or new federal lawsuits challenging its constitutionality will be resolved or what the impact would be of any resulting changes to the law. if we are unable to retain and negotiate favorable contracts with nongovernment payers, including managed care plans, our revenues may be reduced. our ability to obtain favorable contracts with nongovernment payers, including hmos, ppos and other managed care plans significantly affects the revenues and operating results of our facilities. revenues derived from these entities and other insurers (domestic only) accounted for 54.5%, 52.9% and 52.7% of our revenues for 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. nongovernment payers, including managed care payers, continue to demand discounted fee structures, and the trend toward consolidation among nongovernment payers tends to increase their bargaining power over fee structures. as various provisions of the health reform law are implemented, including the establishment of the exchanges, nongovernment payers increasingly may demand reduced fees. our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to retain and renew our managed care contracts and enter into new managed care contracts on terms favorable to us. other health care providers may impact our ability to enter into managed care contracts or negotiate increases in our reimbursement and other favorable terms and conditions. for example, some of our competitors may negotiate exclusivity provisions with managed care plans or otherwise restrict the ability of managed care companies to contract with us. it is not clear what impact, if any, the increased obligations on managed care payers and other payers imposed by the health reform law will have 45 table of contents on our ability to negotiate reimbursement increases. if we are unable to retain and negotiate favorable contracts with managed care plans or experience reductions in payment increases or amounts received from nongovernment payers, our revenues may be reduced. our performance depends on our ability to recruit and retain quality physicians. the success of our hospitals depends in part on the number and quality of the physicians on the medical staffs of our hospitals, the admitting and utilization practices of those physicians, maintaining good relations with those physicians and controlling costs related to the employment of physicians. although we employ some physicians, physicians are often not employees of the hospitals at which they practice and, in many of the markets we serve, most physicians have admitting privileges at other hospitals in addition to our hospitals. such physicians may terminate their affiliation with our hospitals at any time. if we are unable to provide adequate support personnel or technologically advanced equipment and hospital facilities that meet the needs of those physicians and their patients, they may be discouraged from referring patients to our facilities, admissions may decrease and our operating performance may decline. our hospitals face competition for staffing, which may increase labor costs and reduce profitability. our operations are dependent on the efforts, abilities and experience of our management and medical support personnel, such as nurses, pharmacists and lab technicians, as well as our physicians. we compete with other health care providers in recruiting and retaining qualified management and support personnel responsible for the daily operations of each of our hospitals, including nurses and other nonphysician health care professionals. in some markets, the availability of nurses and other medical support personnel has been a significant operating issue to health care providers. we may be required to continue to enhance wages and benefits to recruit and retain nurses and other medical support personnel or to hire more expensive temporary or contract personnel. as a result, our labor costs could increase. we also depend on the available labor pool of semi-skilled and unskilled employees in each of the markets in which we operate. certain proposed changes in federal labor laws and the nlrb modification of its election procedures could increase the likelihood of employee unionization attempts. to the extent a significant portion of our employee base unionizes, it is possible our labor costs could increase materially. when negotiating collective bargaining agreements with unions, whether such agreements are renewals or first contracts, there is the possibility that strikes could occur during the negotiation process, and our continued operation during any strikes could increase our labor costs. in addition, the states in which we operate could adopt mandatory nurse-staffing ratios or could reduce mandatory nurse staffing ratios already in place. state-mandated nurse-staffing ratios could significantly affect labor costs and have an adverse impact on revenues if we are required to limit admissions in order to meet the required ratios. if our labor costs increase, we may not be able to raise rates to offset these increased costs. because a significant percentage of our revenues consists of fixed, prospective payments, our ability to pass along increased labor costs is constrained. our failure to recruit and retain qualified management, nurses and other medical support personnel, or to control labor costs, could have a material, adverse effect on our results of operations. if we fail to comply with extensive laws and government regulations, we could suffer penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations. the health care industry is required to comply with extensive and complex laws and regulations at the federal, state and local government levels relating to, among other things: billing and coding for services and properly handling overpayments; classification of level of care provided, including proper classification of inpatient admissions, observation services and outpatient care; relationships with physicians and other referral sources; necessity and adequacy of medical care; 46 table of contents quality of medical equipment and services; qualifications of medical and support personnel; confidentiality, maintenance, data breach, identity theft and security issues associated with health-related and personal information and medical records; screening, stabilization and transfer of individuals who have emergency medical conditions; licensure and certification; hospital rate or budget review; preparing and filing of cost reports; operating policies and procedures; activities regarding competitors; and addition of facilities and services. among these laws are the federal anti-kickback statute, the federal stark law, the federal fca and similar state laws. we have a variety of financial relationships with physicians and others who either refer or influence the referral of patients to our hospitals and other health care facilities, and these laws govern those relationships. the oig has enacted safe harbor regulations that outline practices deemed protected from prosecution under the anti-kickback statute. while we endeavor to comply with the applicable safe harbors, certain of our current arrangements, including joint ventures and financial relationships with physicians and other referral sources and persons and entities to which we refer patients, do not qualify for safe harbor protection. failure to qualify for a safe harbor does not mean the arrangement necessarily violates the anti-kickback statute but may subject the arrangement to greater scrutiny. however, we cannot offer assurance that practices outside of a safe harbor will not be found to violate the anti-kickback statute. allegations of violations of the anti-kickback statute may be brought under the federal civil monetary penalty law, which requires a lower burden of proof than other fraud and abuse laws, including the anti-kickback statute. our financial relationships with referring physicians and their immediate family members must comply with the stark law by meeting an exception. we attempt to structure our relationships to meet an exception to the stark law, but the regulations implementing the exceptions are detailed and complex, and we cannot provide assurance that every relationship complies fully with the stark law. unlike the anti-kickback statute, failure to meet an exception under the stark law results in a violation of the stark law, even if such violation is technical in nature. additionally, if we violate the anti-kickback statute or stark law, or if we improperly bill for our services, we may be found to violate the fca, either under a suit brought by the government or by a private person under a qui tam , or whistleblower, suit. see item 1, business regulation and other factors. we also operate health care facilities in the united kingdom and have operations and commercial relationships with companies in other foreign jurisdictions and, as a result, are subject to certain u.s. and foreign laws applicable to businesses generally, including anti-corruption laws. the foreign corrupt practices act regulates u.s. companies in their dealings with foreign officials, prohibiting bribes and similar practices, and requires that they maintain records that fairly and accurately reflect transactions and appropriate internal accounting controls. in addition, the united kingdom bribery act has wide jurisdiction over certain activities that affect the united kingdom. if we fail to comply with the anti-kickback statute, the stark law, the fca or other applicable laws and regulations, we could be subjected to liabilities, including civil penalties (including the loss of our licenses to operate one or more facilities), exclusion of one or more facilities from participation in the medicare, medicaid and other federal and state health care programs and, for violations of certain laws and regulations, criminal penalties. 47 table of contents we do not always have the benefit of significant regulatory or judicial interpretation of these laws and regulations. in the future, different interpretations or enforcement of, or amendment to, these laws and regulations could subject our current or past practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality or could require us to make changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel, services, capital expenditure programs and operating expenses. a determination that we have violated these laws, or the public announcement that we are being investigated for possible violations of these laws, could have a material, adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects, and our business reputation could suffer significantly. in addition, other legislation or regulations at the federal or state level may be adopted that adversely affect our business. we have been and could become the subject of governmental investigations, claims and litigation. health care companies are subject to numerous investigations by various governmental agencies. further, under the fca, private parties have the right to bring qui tam , or whistleblower, suits against companies that submit false claims for payments to, or improperly retain overpayments from, the government. some states have adopted similar state whistleblower and false claims provisions. certain of our individual facilities have received, and other facilities may receive, government inquiries from, and may be subject to investigation by, federal and state agencies. depending on whether the underlying conduct in these or future inquiries or investigations could be considered systemic, their resolution could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. governmental agencies and their agents, such as the medicare administrative contractors, fiscal intermediaries and carriers, as well as the oig, cms and state medicaid programs, conduct audits of our health care operations. private payers may conduct similar post-payment audits, and we also perform internal audits and monitoring. depending on the nature of the conduct found in such audits and whether the underlying conduct could be considered systemic, the resolution of these audits could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. as required by statute, cms has implemented the rac program on a nationwide basis. under the program, cms contracts with racs on a contingency fee basis to conduct post-payment reviews to detect and correct improper payments in the fee-for-service medicare program. in february 2012, cms announced that it was initiating a rac prepayment demonstration program in 11 states. the health reform law expands the rac program scope to include managed medicare plans and to include medicaid claims. in addition, cms employs mics to perform post-payment audits of medicaid claims and identify overpayments. the health reform law increases federal funding for the mic program. in addition to racs and mics, the state medicaid agencies and other contractors have increased their review activities. should we be found out of compliance with any of these laws, regulations or programs, depending on the nature of the findings, our business, our financial position and our results of operations could be negatively impacted. physician utilization practices and treatment methodologies or governmental or managed care controls designed to reduce inpatient services or surgical procedures may reduce our revenues. controls imposed by medicare, managed medicare, medicaid, managed medicaid and commercial third-party payers designed to reduce admissions, intensity of services, surgical volumes and lengths of stay, in some instances referred to as utilization review, have affected and are expected to continue to affect our facilities. utilization review entails the review of the admission and course of treatment of a patient by health plans. inpatient utilization, average lengths of stay and occupancy rates continue to be negatively affected by payer-required preadmission authorization and utilization review and by payer pressure to maximize outpatient and alternative health care delivery services for less acutely ill patients. efforts to impose more stringent cost controls are expected to continue. for example, the health reform law potentially expands the use of prepayment review by medicare contractors by eliminating statutory restrictions on their use. although we are unable to predict the 48 table of contents effect these changes will have on our operations, significant limits on the scope of services reimbursed and on reimbursement rates and fees could have a material, adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. additionally, trends in physician treatment protocols and managed care health plan design, such as plans that shift increased costs and accountability for care to patients, could reduce our surgical volumes and admissions in favor of lower intensity and lower cost treatment methodologies. our overall business results may suffer during periods of general economic weakness. budget deficits at federal, state and local government entities have had a negative impact on spending, and may continue to negatively impact spending, for health and human service programs, including medicare, medicaid and similar programs, which represent significant payer sources for our hospitals. other risks we face during periods of economic weakness and high unemployment include potential declines in the population covered under managed care agreements, patient decisions to postpone or cancel elective and nonemergency health care procedures (including delaying surgical procedures), potential increases in the uninsured and underinsured populations and further difficulties in our collecting patient copayment and deductible receivables. the industry trend towards value-based purchasing may negatively impact our revenues. there is a trend in the health care industry towards value-based purchasing of health care services. these value-based purchasing programs include both public reporting of quality data and preventable adverse events tied to the quality and efficiency of care provided by facilities. governmental programs including medicare currently require hospitals to report certain quality data to receive full reimbursement updates. in addition, medicare does not reimburse for care related to certain preventable adverse events (also called never events ). many large commercial payers currently require hospitals to report quality data, and several commercial payers do not reimburse hospitals for certain preventable adverse events. further, we have implemented a policy pursuant to which we do not bill patients or third-party payers for fees or expenses incurred due to certain preventable adverse events. the health reform law also prohibits the use of federal funds under the medicaid program to reimburse providers for medical assistance provided to treat hacs. beginning in federal fiscal year 2015, the 25% of hospitals with the worst national risk-adjusted hac rates in the previous year will receive a 1% reduction in their total inpatient operating medicare payments. beginning in federal fiscal year 2013, hospitals with excess readmission rates for conditions designated by hhs will receive a reduction in operating payments for all medicare inpatient discharges, not just discharges relating to the conditions subject to the excess readmission standard. the reduction in payments to hospitals with excess readmissions is capped at 1% for federal fiscal year 2013, 2% for federal fiscal year 2014, and 3% for federal fiscal year 2015 and thereafter. the health reform law also requires hhs to implement a value-based purchasing program for inpatient hospital services. the health reform law requires hhs to reduce inpatient hospital payments for all discharges by a percentage beginning at 1% in federal fiscal year 2013 and increasing by 0.25% each fiscal year up to 2% in federal fiscal year 2017 and subsequent years. hhs will pool the amount collected from these reductions to fund payments to reward hospitals that meet or exceed certain quality performance standards established by hhs. according to the value-based purchasing program final rule, cms estimates that it will distribute $850 million to hospitals in federal fiscal year 2013 based on their achievement (relative to other hospitals) and improvement ranges (relative to the hospital own past performance). hospitals that meet or exceed the quality performance standards will receive greater reimbursement under the value-based purchasing program than they would have otherwise. we expect value-based purchasing programs, including programs that condition reimbursement on patient outcome measures, to become more common and to involve a higher percentage of reimbursement amounts. we are unable at this time to predict our future reductions and payments under these programs or how this trend will affect our results of operations, but it could negatively impact our revenues. 49 table of contents our operations could be impaired by a failure of our information systems. any system failure that causes an interruption in service or availability of our systems could adversely affect operations or delay the collection of revenues. even though we have implemented network security measures, our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering. the occurrence of any of these events could result in interruptions, delays, the loss or corruption of data, cessations in the availability of systems or liability under privacy and security laws, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations and harm our business reputation. the performance of our information technology and systems is critical to our business operations. in addition to our shared services initiatives, our information systems are essential to a number of critical areas of our operations, including: accounting and financial reporting; billing and collecting accounts; coding and compliance; clinical systems; medical records and document storage; inventory management; negotiating, pricing and administering managed care contracts and supply contracts; and monitoring quality of care and collecting data on quality measures necessary for full medicare payment updates. if we fail to effectively and timely implement electronic health record systems and transition to the icd-10 coding system, our operations could be adversely affected. as required by arra, the secretary of hhs has developed and implemented an incentive payment program for eligible hospitals and health care professionals that adopt and meaningfully use certified ehr technology. hhs uses the provider enrollment, chain and ownership system ( pecos ) to verify medicare enrollment prior to making ehr incentive program payments. during 2012, we received medicare and medicaid incentive payments for being a meaningful user of certified ehr technology and recorded incentive income of $336 million for the year. we have incurred and will continue to incur both capital costs and operating expenses in order to implement our certified ehr technology and meet meaningful use requirements. these expenses are ongoing and are projected to continue over all stages of implementation of meaningful use. the timing of expenses will not correlate with the receipt of the incentive payments and the recognition of incentive income. during 2012, we incurred $80 million of operating expenses to implement our certified ehr technology and to meet meaningful use. if our eligible hospitals and employed professionals are unable to meet the requirements for participation in the incentive payment program, including having an enrollment record in pecos, we will not be eligible to receive incentive payments that could offset some of the costs of implementing certified ehr technology. further, eligible providers that have failed to demonstrate meaningful use of certified ehr technology in an applicable prior reporting period will be subject to reduced payments from medicare, beginning in federal fiscal year 2015 for eligible hospitals and calendar year 2015 for eligible professionals. failure to implement and continue to demonstrate meaningful use of certified ehr technology could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. health plans and providers, including our hospitals, are required to transition to the new icd-10 coding system, which greatly expands the number and detail of billing codes used for inpatient claims. use of the 50 table of contents icd-10 system is required beginning october 1, 2014. transition to the new icd-10 system requires significant investment in coding technology and software as well as the training of staff involved in the coding and billing process. in addition to these upfront costs of transition to icd-10, it is possible that our hospitals could experience disruption or delays in payment due to technical or coding errors or other implementation issues involving our systems or the systems and implementation efforts of health plans and their business partners. further, the transition to the more detailed icd-10 coding system could result in decreased reimbursement if the use of icd-10 codes results in conditions being reclassified to ms-drgs or commercial payer payment groupings with lower levels of reimbursement than assigned under the previous system. state efforts to regulate the construction or expansion of health care facilities could impair our ability to operate and expand our operations. some states, particularly in the eastern part of the country, require health care providers to obtain prior approval, known as a con, for the purchase, construction or expansion of health care facilities, to make certain capital expenditures or to make changes in services or bed capacity. in giving approval, these states consider the need for additional or expanded health care facilities or services. we currently operate health care facilities in a number of states with con laws. the failure to obtain any requested con could impair our ability to operate or expand operations. any such failure could, in turn, adversely affect our ability to attract patients and physicians to our facilities and grow our revenues, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. we may encounter difficulty acquiring hospitals and other health care businesses, encounter challenges integrating the operations of acquired hospitals and other health care businesses and become liable for unknown or contingent liabilities as a result of acquisitions. a component of our business strategy is acquiring hospitals and other health care businesses. we may encounter difficulty acquiring new facilities as a result of competition from other purchasers that may be willing to pay purchase prices that are higher than we believe are reasonable. some states require cons in order to acquire a hospital or other facility or to expand facilities or services. in addition, the acquisition of health care facilities often involves licensure approvals or reviews and complex change of ownership processes for medicare and other payers. further, many states have laws that restrict the conversion or sale of not-for-profit hospitals to for-profit entities. these laws may require prior approval from the state attorney general, advance notification of the attorney general or other regulators and community involvement. attorneys general in states without specific requirements may exercise broad discretionary authority over transactions involving the sale of not-for-profits under their general obligations to protect the use of charitable assets. these conversion legislative and administrative efforts often focus on the appropriate valuation of the assets divested and the use of the proceeds of the sale by the non-profit seller and may include consideration of commitments for capital improvements and charity care by the purchaser. also, the increasingly challenging regulatory and enforcement environment may negatively impact our ability to acquire health care businesses if they are found to have material unresolved compliance issues, such as repayment obligations. resolving compliance issues as well as completion of oversight, review or approval processes could seriously delay or even prevent our ability to acquire hospitals or other businesses and increase our acquisition costs. we may be unable to timely and effectively integrate hospitals and other businesses that we acquire with our ongoing operations, or we may experience delays implementing operating procedures and systems. hospitals and other health care businesses that we acquire may have unknown or contingent liabilities, including liabilities for failure to comply with health care and other laws and regulations, medical and general professional liabilities, workers compensation liabilities and tax liabilities. although we typically exclude significant liabilities from our acquisition transactions and seek indemnification from the sellers for these matters, we could experience difficulty enforcing those obligations, experience liability in excess of any indemnification obtained or otherwise incur material liabilities for the pre-acquisition conduct of acquired businesses. such liabilities and related legal or other costs could harm our business and results of operations. 51 table of contents our facilities are heavily concentrated in florida and texas, which makes us sensitive to regulatory, economic, environmental and competitive conditions and changes in those states. we operated 162 hospitals at december 31, 2012, and 74 of those hospitals are located in florida and texas. our florida and texas facilities combined revenues represented approximately 47% of our consolidated revenues for the year ended december 31, 2012. this concentration makes us particularly sensitive to regulatory, economic, environmental and competitive conditions and changes in those states. any material change in the current payment programs or regulatory, economic, environmental or competitive conditions in those states could have a disproportionate effect on our overall business results. in addition, our hospitals in florida, texas and other areas across the gulf coast are located in hurricane-prone areas. in the past, hurricanes have had a disruptive effect on the operations of our hospitals in florida, texas and other coastal states, and the patient populations in those states. our business activities could be harmed by a particularly active hurricane season or even a single storm, and the property insurance we obtain may not be adequate to cover losses from future hurricanes or other natural disasters. we may be subject to liabilities from claims by the internal revenue service. the irs examination division is conducting an audit of hca inc. 2007, 2008 and 2009 federal income tax returns. we expect the irs examination division will begin an audit of hca holdings, inc. 2010 and 2011 federal income tax returns in 2013. management believes hca holdings, inc., its predecessors, subsidiaries and affiliates properly reported taxable income and paid taxes in accordance with applicable laws and agreements established with the irs and final resolution of any disputes will not have a material, adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. however, if payments due upon final resolution of any issues exceed our recorded estimates, such resolutions could have a material, adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. we may be subject to liabilities from claims brought against our facilities. we are subject to litigation relating to our business practices, including claims and legal actions by patients and others in the ordinary course of business alleging malpractice, product liability or other legal theories. many of these actions seek large sums of money as damages and involve significant defense costs. we insure a portion of our professional liability risks through a wholly-owned subsidiary. management believes our reserves for self-insured retentions and insurance coverage are sufficient to cover insured claims arising out of the operation of our facilities. our wholly-owned liability insurance subsidiary has entered into certain reinsurance contracts, and the obligations covered by the reinsurance contracts are included in its reserves for professional liability risks, as the subsidiary remains liable to the extent that the reinsurers do not meet their obligations under the reinsurance contracts. if payments for claims exceed actuarially determined estimates, are not covered by insurance, or reinsurers, if any, fail to meet their obligations, our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected. we are exposed to market risks related to changes in the market values of securities and interest rate changes. we are exposed to market risk related to changes in market values of securities. the investments in debt and equity securities of our wholly-owned insurance subsidiaries were $567 million and $3 million, respectively, at december 31, 2012. these investments are carried at fair value, with changes in unrealized gains and losses being recorded as adjustments to other comprehensive income. at december 31, 2012, we had a net unrealized gain of $18 million on the insurance subsidiaries investment securities. we are exposed to market risk related to market illiquidity. investments in debt and equity securities of our wholly-owned insurance subsidiaries could be impaired by the inability to access the capital markets. should the 52 table of contents wholly-owned insurance subsidiaries require significant amounts of cash in excess of normal cash requirements to pay claims and other expenses on short notice, we may have difficulty selling these investments in a timely manner or be forced to sell them at a price less than what we might otherwise have been able to in a normal market environment. we may be required to recognize other-than-temporary impairments on long-term investments in future periods should issuers default on interest payments or should the fair market valuations of the securities deteriorate due to ratings downgrades or other issue specific factors. we are also exposed to market risk related to changes in interest rates, and we periodically enter into interest rate swap agreements to manage our exposure to these fluctuations. our interest rate swap agreements involve the exchange of fixed and variable rate interest payments between two parties, based on common notional principal amounts and maturity dates. the notional amounts of the swap agreements represent balances used to calculate the exchange of cash flows and are not our assets or liabilities. the investors continue to have influence over us and may have conflicts of interest with us in the future. on february 15, 2013, upon completion of a secondary offering of our shares held by certain of the investors, we ceased to qualify as a controlled company under applicable new york stock exchange listing standards and are required to appoint a board of directors comprised of a majority of independent members within one year, which will necessitate a transition in our existing governance structure. however, as of february 15, 2013, the investors continued to indirectly own approximately 39% of our capital stock. in addition, representatives of the investors have the continued right to designate certain of the members of our board of directors. as a result, the investors have the continued ability to influence our decisions to enter into corporate transactions (and the terms thereof) and to potentially prevent changes in the composition of our board of directors and any transaction that requires stockholder approval. additionally, the investors are in the business of making investments in companies and may acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. one or more of the investors may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. 53 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 88 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information with respect to this item is provided under the caption market risk under item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations.risk factors 37 risk factors if any of the events discussed in the following risk factors were to occur, our business, financial position, results of operations, cash flows or prospects could be materially, adversely affected. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known, or currently deemed immaterial, may also constrain our business and operations. our substantial leverage could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry, expose us to interest rate risk to the extent of our variable rate debt and prevent us from meeting our obligations. we are highly leveraged. as of december 31, 2013, our total indebtedness was $28.376 billion. as of december 31, 2013, we had availability of $1.942 billion under our senior secured revolving credit facility and $60 million under our asset-based revolving credit facility, after giving effect to letters of credit and borrowing base limitations. our high degree of leverage could have important consequences, including: increasing our vulnerability to downturns or adverse changes in general economic, industry or competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulations; requiring a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, therefore reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities; exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our unhedged borrowings are at variable rates of interest; limiting our ability to make strategic acquisitions or causing us to make nonstrategic divestitures; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product or service line development, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who are less highly leveraged. we and our subsidiaries have the ability to incur additional indebtedness in the future, subject to the restrictions contained in our senior secured credit facilities and the indentures governing our outstanding notes. if new indebtedness is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could intensify. we may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may not be able to refinance our indebtedness on favorable terms. if we are unable to do so, we may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. we cannot assure you we will maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. 37 table of contents in addition, we conduct our operations through our subsidiaries. accordingly, repayment of our indebtedness is dependent on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise. our subsidiaries may not be able to, or may not be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness. each subsidiary is a distinct legal entity, and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. we may find it necessary or prudent to refinance our outstanding indebtedness with longer-maturity debt at a higher interest rate. our ability to refinance our indebtedness on favorable terms, or at all, is directly affected by the current global economic and financial conditions. in addition, our ability to incur secured indebtedness (which would generally enable us to achieve better pricing than the incurrence of unsecured indebtedness) depends in part on the value of our assets, which depends, in turn, on the strength of our cash flows and results of operations, and on economic and market conditions and other factors. if our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations or we are unable to refinance our indebtedness, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure our indebtedness. these alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. if our operating results and available cash are insufficient to meet our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. we may not be able to consummate those dispositions, or the proceeds from the dispositions may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. our debt agreements contain restrictions that limit our flexibility in operating our business. our senior secured credit facilities and the indentures governing our outstanding notes contain various covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions. these covenants limit our and certain of our subsidiaries ability to, among other things: incur additional indebtedness or issue certain preferred shares; pay dividends on, repurchase or make distributions in respect of our capital stock or make other restricted payments; make certain investments; sell or transfer assets; create liens; consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and enter into certain transactions with our affiliates. under our asset-based revolving credit facility, when (and for as long as) the combined availability under our asset-based revolving credit facility and our senior secured revolving credit facility is less than a specified amount for a certain period of time or, if a payment or bankruptcy event of default has occurred and is continuing, funds deposited into any of our depository accounts will be transferred on a daily basis into a blocked account with the administrative agent and applied to prepay loans under the asset-based revolving credit facility and to cash collateralize letters of credit issued thereunder. under our senior secured credit facilities, we are required to satisfy and maintain specified financial ratios. our ability to meet those financial ratios can be affected by events beyond our control, and there can be no assurance we will continue to meet those ratios. a breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under both the cash flow credit facility and the asset-based revolving credit facility. upon the occurrence of an event of default under the senior secured credit facilities, the lenders thereunder could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the senior secured credit facilities to be immediately due and payable and terminate 38 table of contents all commitments to extend further credit. if we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under the senior secured credit facilities could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure such indebtedness. we have pledged a significant portion of our assets under our senior secured credit facilities and that collateral is also pledged as collateral under our first lien notes. if any of the lenders under the senior secured credit facilities accelerate the repayment of borrowings, there can be no assurance there will be sufficient assets to repay the senior secured credit facilities, the first lien notes and our other indebtedness. our hospitals face competition for patients from other hospitals and health care providers. the health care business is highly competitive, and competition among hospitals and other health care providers for patients has intensified in recent years. generally, other hospitals in the local communities we serve provide services similar to those offered by our hospitals. in addition, cms publicizes on its hospital compare website performance data related to quality measures and data on patient satisfaction surveys hospitals submit in connection with their medicare reimbursement. federal law provides for the future expansion of the number of quality measures that must be reported. additional quality measures and future trends toward clinical transparency may have an unanticipated impact on our competitive position and patient volumes. further, the health reform law requires every hospital to establish and update annually a public listing of the hospital standard charges for items and services. if any of our hospitals achieve poor results (or results that are lower than our competitors) on these quality measures or on patient satisfaction surveys or if our standard charges are higher than our competitors, our patient volumes could decline. in addition, the number of freestanding specialty hospitals, surgery centers, emergency departments, urgent care centers and diagnostic and imaging centers in the geographic areas in which we operate has increased significantly. as a result, most of our hospitals operate in a highly competitive environment. some of the facilities that compete with our hospitals are physician-owned or are owned by governmental agencies or not-for-profit corporations supported by endowments, charitable contributions and/or tax revenues and can finance capital expenditures and operations on a tax-exempt basis. our hospitals face competition from competitors that are implementing physician alignment strategies, such as employing physicians, acquiring physician practice groups and participating in acos or other clinical integration models. our hospitals compete with specialty hospitals and with both our own and unaffiliated freestanding surgery centers for market share in certain high margin services and for quality physicians and personnel. if ambulatory surgery centers are better able to compete in this environment than our hospitals, our hospitals may experience a decline in patient volume, and we may experience a decrease in margin, even if those patients use our ambulatory surgery centers. in states that do not require a con or other type of approval for the purchase, construction or expansion of health care facilities or services, competition in the form of new services, facilities and capital spending is more prevalent. further, if our competitors are better able to attract patients, make capital expenditures and maintain modern and technologically upgraded facilities and equipment, recruit physicians, expand services or obtain favorable managed care contracts at their facilities than our hospitals and ambulatory surgery centers, we may experience an overall decline in patient volume. see item 1, business competition. the growth of uninsured and patient due accounts and a deterioration in the collectability of these accounts could adversely affect our results of operations. the primary collection risks of our accounts receivable relate to the uninsured patient accounts and patient accounts for which the primary insurance carrier has paid the amounts covered by the applicable agreement, but patient responsibility amounts (exclusions, deductibles and copayments) remain outstanding. the provision for doubtful accounts relates primarily to amounts due directly from patients. although medicare reimburses hospitals for a portion of medicare bad debts, the jobs creation act reduced the reimbursement level from 70% of eligible bad debts to 65% beginning in federal fiscal year 2013. the amount of the provision for doubtful accounts is based upon management assessment of historical write-offs and expected net collections, business and economic conditions, trends in federal and state 39 table of contents governmental and private employer health care coverage, the rate of growth in uninsured patient admissions and other collection indicators. at december 31, 2013, our allowance for doubtful accounts represented approximately 93% of the $5.927 billion patient due accounts receivable balance. the sum of the provision for doubtful accounts, uninsured discounts and charity care increased from $11.214 billion for 2011 to $13.841 billion for 2012 and to $15.565 billion for 2013. any increase in the amount or deterioration in the collectability of uninsured accounts receivable will adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations. our facilities may experience growth in bad debts, uninsured discounts and charity care as a result of a number of factors, including conditions impacting the overall economy and continued high unemployment. the health reform law seeks to decrease, over time, the number of uninsured individuals through reforms, most of which became effective january 1, 2014, but it is difficult to predict the full impact of the health reform law. for example, a number of states have opted out of the medicaid expansion. these states could choose to implement the expansion at a later date, and it is unclear how many states will ultimately decline to implement the medicaid expansion provisions of the law. further, the president has delayed until january 1, 2015, implementation of the employer mandate, which requires firms with 50 or more full-time employees to offer health insurance or pay fines. for employers with 50 to 99 employees, this mandate has been further delayed until january 1, 2016. even after full implementation of the health reform law, we may continue to experience bad debts and have to provide uninsured discounts and charity care for individuals residing in states that choose not to implement the medicaid expansion, for undocumented aliens who are not permitted to enroll in an exchange or government health care programs and for certain others who may not have insurance coverage. further, implementation of the health reform law could result in some patients terminating their current insurance plans in favor of lower cost medicaid plans or other insurance coverage with lower reimbursement levels. we may also be adversely affected by the growth in patient responsibility accounts as a result of increases in the adoption of plan structures, including health savings accounts, narrow networks and tiered networks, which shift greater responsibility for care to individuals through greater exclusions and copayment and deductible amounts. changes in government health care programs may adversely affect our revenues. a significant portion of our patient volume is derived from government health care programs, principally medicare and medicaid. specifically, we derived 42% of our revenues from the medicare and medicaid programs in 2013. changes in government health care programs may reduce the reimbursement we receive and could adversely affect our business and results of operations. in recent years, legislative and regulatory changes have resulted in limitations on and, in some cases, reductions in levels of payments to health care providers for certain services under the medicare program. the budget control act of 2011 (the bca ) provides for new spending on program integrity initiatives intended to reduce fraud and abuse under the medicare program. the bca requires automatic spending reductions of $1.2 trillion for federal fiscal years 2013 through 2021, minus any deficit reductions enacted by congress and debt service costs. however, the percentage reduction for medicare may not be more than 2% for a fiscal year, with a uniform percentage reduction across all medicare programs. the bca spending reductions began on march 1, 2013, with cms imposing a 2% reduction on medicare claims beginning on april 1, 2013. these reductions have been extended by congress through 2024. we are unable to predict what other deficit reduction initiatives may be proposed by congress or whether congress will attempt to suspend or restructure the automatic budget cuts. these reductions are in addition to reductions mandated by the health reform law, which provides for material reductions in the growth of medicare program spending, including reductions in medicare market basket updates and medicare dsh funding. further, from time to time, cms revises the reimbursement systems used to reimburse health care providers, including changes to the ms-drg system and other payment systems, which may result in reduced medicare payments. for example, cms has established what is referred to as the two midnight rule, which provides that medicare beneficiaries are only to be admitted as inpatients when there is a reasonable expectation that the hospital care is medically necessary and will be required across two midnights 40 table of contents absent unusual circumstances. compliance with the rule became required for admissions beginning october 1, 2013 and will become subject to rac audits beginning october 1, 2014. because most states must operate with balanced budgets and because the medicaid program is often a state largest program, some states have enacted or may consider enacting legislation designed to reduce their medicaid expenditures. further, many states have also adopted, or are considering, legislation designed to reduce coverage, enroll medicaid recipients in managed care programs and/or impose additional taxes on hospitals to help finance or expand the states medicaid systems. the economic downturn increased the budgetary pressures on many states, and these budgetary pressures have resulted, and likely may continue to result, in decreased spending, or decreased spending growth, for medicaid programs and the children health insurance program in many states. some states that provide medicaid supplemental payments are reviewing these programs or have filed waiver requests with cms to replace these programs, which could result in medicaid supplemental payments being reduced or eliminated. cms approved a five-year medicaid waiver in december 2011 that allows texas to continue receiving supplemental medicaid reimbursement while expanding its medicaid managed care program. however, we cannot predict whether the texas private supplemental medicaid waiver program will continue or guarantee that revenues recognized from the program will not decrease. the health reform law made changes to the medicaid program and will likely cause additional changes in the future. for example, the health reform law provides for material reductions to medicaid dsh funding. the health reform law will result in increased state legislative and regulatory changes in order for states to comply with new federal mandates, such as the requirement to establish or participate in exchanges and to participate in grants and other incentive opportunities. a number of states have opted out of the medicaid expansion provisions of the health reform law, but these states could choose to implement the expansion at a later date. it is unclear how many states will ultimately decline to implement the medicaid expansion provisions of the law. in some cases, commercial third-party payers rely on all or portions of medicare payment systems to determine payment rates. changes to government health care programs that reduce payments under these programs may negatively impact payments from commercial third-party payers. current or future health care reform and deficit reduction efforts, changes in laws or regulations regarding government health care programs, other changes in the administration of government health care programs and changes to commercial third-party payers in response to health care reform and other changes to government health care programs could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. we are unable to predict the impact of the health reform law, which represents a significant change to the health care industry. the health reform law changes how health care services are covered, delivered, and reimbursed through expanded coverage of uninsured individuals, reduced growth in medicare program spending, reductions in medicare and medicaid dsh payments and the establishment and expansion of programs that tie reimbursement to quality and integration. in addition, the law reforms certain aspects of health insurance, contains provisions intended to strengthen fraud and abuse enforcement and establishes acos and bundled payment pilot programs. the expansion of health insurance coverage under the health reform law may result in an increase in the number of patients using our facilities who have either private or public program coverage, and our facilities may benefit from health reform law initiatives that create possible sources of additional revenue. however, any positive effects of the health reform law could be offset and the company could be significantly impacted by reductions to the medicare and medicaid programs. substantial uncertainty remains regarding the net effect of the health reform law on the company because the resolution of a number of material factors remains unclear, including the following: how many states will ultimately implement the medicaid expansion provisions and under what terms; the potential for and impact of further delays in or complications related to implementation of the health reform law (for example, there were significant problems during the initial implementation of 41 table of contents the exchanges that negatively impacted the ability of individuals to enroll in medicaid and to purchase health insurance); the possibility of enactment of additional federal or state health care reforms and possible changes to the health reform law; our ability to participate in health insurance plans offered through the exchanges and the terms of our participation as well as treatment of out of network claims; how many previously uninsured individuals will obtain coverage as a result of the health reform law (based on the cbo february 2014 estimates, by 2022, the health reform law will expand coverage to 25 million additional individuals); what percentage of the newly insured patients will be covered under the medicaid program and what percentage will be covered by private health insurers; the extent to which states will enroll new medicaid participants in managed care programs; the pace at which insurance coverage expands, including the pace of different types of coverage expansion; the change, if any, in the volume of inpatient and outpatient hospital services that are sought by and provided to previously uninsured individuals; the rate paid to hospitals by private payers for newly covered individuals and individuals with existing coverage including those covered through the exchanges, and those who might be covered under the medicaid program; the rate paid by state governments under the medicaid program for newly covered individuals; the effect of the value-based purchasing provisions of the health reform law on our hospitals revenues and the effects of other quality programs; the percentage of individuals in the exchanges who select the high deductible plans, since health insurers offering those kinds of products have traditionally sought to pay lower rates to hospitals; the amount of overall revenues the company will generate from medicare and medicaid business when the reductions are implemented (42% of our revenues in 2013 were from medicare and medicaid); the size of the health reform law annual productivity adjustment to the market basket; the amount of the medicare dsh reductions and the allocation of the medicaid dsh reductions to our hospitals; how successful acos will be at coordinating care and reducing costs or whether they will decrease reimbursement; the scope and nature of potential changes to medicare reimbursement methods, such as an emphasis on bundling payments or coordination of care programs; whether the company revenues from medicaid supplemental programs developed through a federally approved waiver program ( waiver program ), will be adversely affected because there may be reductions in available state and local government funding for the programs; and the impact of efforts to repeal or revise the health reform law and remaining or new federal lawsuits challenging its constitutionality. if we are unable to retain and negotiate favorable contracts with nongovernment payers, including managed care plans, our revenues may be reduced. our ability to obtain favorable contracts with nongovernment payers, including hmos, ppos and other managed care plans significantly affects the revenues and operating results of our facilities. revenues derived 42 table of contents from these entities and other insurers (domestic only) accounted for 54.6%, 54.5% and 52.9% of our revenues for 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. nongovernment payers, including managed care payers, continue to demand discounted fee structures, and the trend toward consolidation among nongovernment payers tends to increase their bargaining power over fee structures. as various provisions of the health reform law are implemented, including the exchanges, nongovernment payers increasingly may demand reduced fees and utilize plan structures such as narrow networks and tiered networks that limit beneficiary provider choices or impose significantly higher cost sharing obligations when care is obtained from providers in a disfavored tier. other health care providers may impact our ability to enter into managed care contracts or negotiate increases in our reimbursement and other favorable terms and conditions. for example, some of our competitors may negotiate exclusivity provisions with managed care plans or otherwise restrict the ability of managed care companies to contract with us. our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to retain and renew our managed care contracts and enter into new managed care contracts on terms favorable to us. it is not clear what impact, if any, the increased obligations on managed care payers and other payers imposed by the health reform law will have on our ability to negotiate reimbursement increases and participate in plan networks on favorable terms. if we are unable to retain and negotiate favorable contracts with managed care plans or experience reductions in payment increases or amounts received from nongovernment payers, our revenues may be reduced. our performance depends on our ability to recruit and retain quality physicians. the success of our hospitals depends in part on the number and quality of the physicians on the medical staffs of our hospitals, the admitting and utilization practices of those physicians, maintaining good relations with those physicians and controlling costs related to the employment of physicians. although we employ some physicians, physicians are often not employees of the hospitals at which they practice and, in many of the markets we serve, most physicians have admitting privileges at other hospitals in addition to our hospitals. such physicians may terminate their affiliation with our hospitals at any time. if we are unable to provide adequate support personnel or technologically advanced equipment and hospital facilities that meet the needs of those physicians and their patients, they may be discouraged from referring patients to our facilities, admissions may decrease and our operating performance may decline. our hospitals face competition for staffing, which may increase labor costs and reduce profitability. our operations are dependent on the efforts, abilities and experience of our management and medical support personnel, such as nurses, pharmacists and lab technicians, as well as our physicians. we compete with other health care providers in recruiting and retaining qualified management and support personnel responsible for the daily operations of each of our hospitals, including nurses and other nonphysician health care professionals. in some markets, the availability of nurses and other medical support personnel has been a significant operating issue to health care providers. we may be required to continue to enhance wages and benefits to recruit and retain nurses and other medical support personnel or to hire more expensive temporary or contract personnel. as a result, our labor costs could increase. we also depend on the available labor pool of semi-skilled and unskilled employees in each of the markets in which we operate. certain proposed changes in federal labor laws and the nlrb modification of its election procedures could increase the likelihood of employee unionization attempts. to the extent a significant portion of our employee base unionizes, it is possible our labor costs could increase materially. when negotiating collective bargaining agreements with unions, whether such agreements are renewals or first contracts, there is the possibility that strikes could occur during the negotiation process, and our continued operation during any strikes could increase our labor costs. in addition, the states in which we operate could adopt mandatory nurse-staffing ratios or could reduce mandatory nurse staffing ratios already in place. state-mandated nurse-staffing ratios could significantly affect labor costs and have an adverse impact on revenues if we are required to limit admissions in order to meet the required ratios. if our labor costs increase, we may not be able to raise rates to offset these increased costs. because a significant percentage of our revenues consists of fixed, prospective payments, our ability to pass along increased labor costs is constrained. our failure to recruit and retain qualified management, nurses and other medical support personnel, or to control labor costs, could have a material, adverse effect on our results of operations. 43 table of contents if we fail to comply with extensive laws and government regulations, we could suffer penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations. the health care industry is required to comply with extensive and complex laws and regulations at the federal, state and local government levels relating to, among other things: billing and coding for services and properly handling overpayments; classification of level of care provided, including proper classification of inpatient admissions, observation services and outpatient care; relationships with physicians and other referral sources and referral recipients; necessity and adequacy of medical care; quality of medical equipment and services; qualifications of medical and support personnel; confidentiality, maintenance, data breach, identity theft and security issues associated with health-related and personal information and medical records; screening, stabilization and transfer of individuals who have emergency medical conditions; licensure and certification; hospital rate or budget review; preparing and filing of cost reports; operating policies and procedures; activities regarding competitors; and addition of facilities and services. among these laws are the federal anti-kickback statute, the federal stark law, the federal fca and similar state laws. we have a variety of financial relationships with physicians and others who either refer or influence the referral of patients to our hospitals, other health care facilities and employed physicians or who are the recipients of referrals, and these laws govern those relationships. the oig has enacted safe harbor regulations that outline practices deemed protected from prosecution under the anti-kickback statute. while we endeavor to comply with the applicable safe harbors, certain of our current arrangements, including joint ventures and financial relationships with physicians and other referral sources and persons and entities to which we refer patients, do not qualify for safe harbor protection. failure to qualify for a safe harbor does not mean the arrangement necessarily violates the anti-kickback statute but may subject the arrangement to greater scrutiny. however, we cannot offer assurance that practices outside of a safe harbor will not be found to violate the anti-kickback statute. allegations of violations of the anti-kickback statute may be brought under the federal civil monetary penalty law, which requires a lower burden of proof than other fraud and abuse laws, including the anti-kickback statute. our financial relationships with referring physicians and their immediate family members must comply with the stark law by meeting an exception. we attempt to structure our relationships to meet an exception to the stark law, but the regulations implementing the exceptions are detailed and complex, and we cannot provide assurance that every relationship complies fully with the stark law. unlike the anti-kickback statute, failure to meet an exception under the stark law results in a violation of the stark law, even if such violation is technical in nature. additionally, if we violate the anti-kickback statute or stark law, or if we improperly bill for our services, we may be found to violate the fca, either under a suit brought by the government or by a private person under a qui tam , or whistleblower, suit. see item 1, business regulation and other factors. 44 table of contents we also operate health care facilities in the united kingdom and have operations and commercial relationships with companies in other foreign jurisdictions and, as a result, are subject to certain u.s. and foreign laws applicable to businesses generally, including anti-corruption laws. the foreign corrupt practices act regulates u.s. companies in their dealings with foreign officials, prohibiting bribes and similar practices, and requires that they maintain records that fairly and accurately reflect transactions and appropriate internal accounting controls. in addition, the united kingdom bribery act has wide jurisdiction over certain activities that affect the united kingdom. if we fail to comply with the anti-kickback statute, the stark law, the fca or other applicable laws and regulations, we could be subjected to liabilities, including civil penalties (including the loss of our licenses to operate one or more facilities), exclusion of one or more facilities from participation in the medicare, medicaid and other federal and state health care programs and, for violations of certain laws and regulations, criminal penalties. we do not always have the benefit of significant regulatory or judicial interpretation of these laws and regulations. in the future, different interpretations or enforcement of, or amendment to, these laws and regulations could subject our current or past practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality or could require us to make changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel, services, capital expenditure programs and operating expenses. a determination that we have violated these laws, or the public announcement that we are being investigated for possible violations of these laws, could have a material, adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects, and our business reputation could suffer significantly. in addition, other legislation or regulations at the federal or state level may be adopted that adversely affect our business. we have been and could become the subject of governmental investigations, claims and litigation. health care companies are subject to numerous investigations by various governmental agencies. further, under the fca, private parties have the right to bring qui tam , or whistleblower, suits against companies that submit false claims for payments to, or improperly retain overpayments from, the government. some states have adopted similar state whistleblower and false claims provisions. certain of our individual facilities have received, and other facilities may receive, government inquiries from, and may be subject to investigation by, federal and state agencies. depending on whether the underlying conduct in these or future inquiries or investigations could be considered systemic, their resolution could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. governmental agencies and their agents, such as the medicare administrative contractors, fiscal intermediaries and carriers, as well as the oig, cms and state medicaid programs, conduct audits of our health care operations. private payers may conduct similar post-payment audits, and we also perform internal audits and monitoring. depending on the nature of the conduct found in such audits and whether the underlying conduct could be considered systemic, the resolution of these audits could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. cms contracts with racs on a contingency fee basis to conduct post-payment reviews to detect and correct improper payments in the fee-for-service medicare program. in february 2012, cms initiated a rac prepayment demonstration program in 11 states. the health reform law expands the rac program scope to include managed medicare plans and medicaid claims. rac denials are appealable; however, hhs has imposed a suspension of assignment of new medicare appeals to administrative law judges for at least two years beginning july 16, 2013. this suspension will delay our ability to appeal rac payment denials during this period. in addition, cms employs mics to perform post-payment audits of medicaid claims and identify overpayments. the health reform law increases federal funding for the mic program. in addition to racs and mics, the state medicaid agencies and other contractors have increased their review activities. should we be found out of compliance with any of these laws, regulations or programs, depending on the nature of the findings, our business, our financial position and our results of operations could be negatively impacted. 45 table of contents physician utilization practices and treatment methodologies or governmental or managed care controls designed to reduce inpatient services or surgical procedures may reduce our revenues. controls imposed by medicare, managed medicare, medicaid, managed medicaid and commercial third-party payers designed to reduce admissions, intensity of services, surgical volumes and lengths of stay, in some instances referred to as utilization review, have affected and are expected to continue to affect our facilities. utilization review entails the review of the admission and course of treatment of a patient by health plans. inpatient utilization, average lengths of stay and occupancy rates continue to be negatively affected by payer-required preadmission authorization and utilization review and by payer pressure to maximize outpatient and alternative health care delivery services for less acutely ill patients. efforts to impose more stringent cost controls are expected to continue. for example, the health reform law expanded the use of prepayment review by medicare contractors by eliminating statutory restrictions on their use. although we are unable to predict the effect these changes will have on our operations, significant limits on the scope of services reimbursed and on reimbursement rates and fees could have a material, adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. additionally, trends in physician treatment protocols and managed care health plan design, such as plans that shift increased costs and accountability for care to patients, could reduce our surgical volumes and admissions in favor of lower intensity and lower cost treatment methodologies. our overall business results may suffer during periods of general economic weakness. budget deficits at federal, state and local government entities have had a negative impact on spending, and may continue to negatively impact spending, for health and human service programs, including medicare, medicaid and similar programs, which represent significant payer sources for our hospitals. other risks we face during periods of economic weakness and high unemployment include potential declines in the population covered under managed care agreements, patient decisions to postpone or cancel elective and nonemergency health care procedures (including delaying surgical procedures), potential increases in the uninsured and underinsured populations and further difficulties in our collecting patient copayment and deductible receivables. the industry trend toward value-based purchasing may negatively impact our revenues. there is a trend in the health care industry toward value-based purchasing of health care services. these value-based purchasing programs include both public reporting of quality data and preventable adverse events tied to the quality and efficiency of care provided by facilities. governmental programs including medicare currently require hospitals to report certain quality data to receive full reimbursement updates. in addition, medicare does not reimburse for care related to certain preventable adverse events (also called never events ). the health reform law also prohibits the use of federal funds under the medicaid program to reimburse providers for medical assistance provided to treat hacs. beginning in federal fiscal year 2015, the 25% of hospitals with the worst national risk-adjusted hac rates in the previous year will receive a 1% reduction in their total inpatient operating medicare payments. hospitals with excess readmission rates for conditions designated by hhs will receive a reduction in operating payments for all medicare inpatient discharges, not just discharges relating to the conditions subject to the excess readmission standard. the reduction in payments to hospitals with excess readmissions is capped at 2% for federal fiscal year 2014 and 3% for federal fiscal year 2015 and thereafter. as required by the health reform law, hhs has implemented a value-based purchasing program for inpatient hospital services that reduces inpatient hospital payments for all discharges by 1.25% in federal fiscal year 2014. this percentage will increase by 0.25% each fiscal year up to 2% in federal fiscal year 2017 and subsequent years. hhs pools the amount collected from these reductions to fund payments to reward hospitals that meet or exceed certain quality performance standards established by hhs. hhs estimates that it will distribute $1.1 billion to hospitals in federal fiscal year 2014 based on their achievement (relative to other 46 table of contents hospitals) and improvement ranges (relative to the hospital own past performance). hospitals that meet or exceed the quality performance standards will receive greater reimbursement under the value-based purchasing program than they would have otherwise. many large commercial payers currently require hospitals to report quality data, and several commercial payers do not reimburse hospitals for certain preventable adverse events. further, we have implemented a policy pursuant to which we do not bill patients or third-party payers for fees or expenses incurred due to certain preventable adverse events. we expect value-based purchasing programs, including programs that condition reimbursement on patient outcome measures, to become more common and to involve a higher percentage of reimbursement amounts. we are unable at this time to predict our future reductions and payments under these programs or how this trend will affect our results of operations, but it could negatively impact our revenues. our operations could be impaired by a failure of our information systems. any system failure that causes an interruption in service or availability of our systems could adversely affect operations or delay the collection of revenues. we have implemented multiple layers of security measures through technology, processes, and our people; utilize current security technologies; and our defenses are monitored and routinely tested internally and by external parties. despite these efforts, threats from malicious persons and groups, new vulnerabilities, and advanced new attacks against information technology systems create risk of cyber security incidents that could impact availability of systems. the occurrence of any of these events could result in interruptions, delays, the loss or corruption of data, cessations in the availability of systems or liability under privacy and security laws, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations and harm our business reputation. the performance of our information technology and systems is critical to our business operations. in addition to our shared services initiatives, our information systems are essential to a number of critical areas of our operations, including: accounting and financial reporting; billing and collecting accounts; coding and compliance; clinical systems; medical records and document storage; inventory management; negotiating, pricing and administering managed care contracts and supply contracts; and monitoring quality of care and collecting data on quality measures necessary for full medicare payment updates. if we fail to effectively and timely implement electronic health record systems and transition to the icd-10 coding system, our operations could be adversely affected. as required by arra, the secretary of hhs has developed and implemented an incentive payment program for eligible hospitals and health care professionals that adopt and meaningfully use certified ehr technology. hhs uses the provider enrollment, chain and ownership system ( pecos ) to verify medicare enrollment prior to making ehr incentive program payments. during 2013, we received medicare and medicaid incentive payments for being a meaningful user of certified ehr technology and recorded incentive income of $216 million for the year. we have incurred and will continue to incur both capital costs and operating expenses in order to implement our certified ehr technology and meet meaningful use requirements. these expenses are ongoing and are projected to continue over all stages of implementation of meaningful use. the timing of expenses will not 47 table of contents correlate with the receipt of the incentive payments and the recognition of incentive income. during 2013, we incurred $113 million of operating expenses to implement our certified ehr technology and to meet meaningful use. if our eligible hospitals and employed professionals are unable to meet the requirements for participation in the incentive payment program, including having an enrollment record in pecos, we will not be eligible to receive incentive payments that could offset some of the costs of implementing certified ehr technology. further, eligible providers that have failed to demonstrate meaningful use of certified ehr technology in an applicable prior reporting period will be subject to reduced payments from medicare, beginning in federal fiscal year 2015 for eligible hospitals and calendar year 2015 for eligible professionals. failure to implement and continue to demonstrate meaningful use of certified ehr technology could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. health plans and providers, including our hospitals, are required to transition to the new icd-10 coding system, which greatly expands the number and detail of billing codes used for inpatient claims. use of the icd-10 system is required beginning october 1, 2014. transition to the new icd-10 system requires significant investment in training of staff and physicians involved in the coding and billing process as well as investment in coding technology and software. in addition to these upfront costs of transition to icd-10, it is possible that our hospitals could experience disruption or delays in payment due to technical or coding errors or other implementation issues involving our systems or the systems and implementation efforts of health plans and their business partners. further, the transition to the more detailed icd-10 coding system could result in decreased reimbursement if the use of icd-10 codes results in conditions being reclassified to ms-drgs or commercial payer payment groupings with lower levels of reimbursement than assigned under the previous system. state efforts to regulate the construction or expansion of health care facilities could impair our ability to operate and expand our operations. some states, particularly in the eastern part of the country, require health care providers to obtain prior approval, often known as a con, for the purchase, construction or expansion of health care facilities, to make certain capital expenditures or to make changes in services or bed capacity. in giving approval, these states consider the need for additional or expanded health care facilities or services. we currently operate health care facilities in a number of states with con laws or that require other types of approvals for the establishment or expansion of certain facility types or services. the failure to obtain any requested con or other required approval could impair our ability to operate or expand operations. any such failure could, in turn, adversely affect our ability to attract patients and physicians to our facilities and grow our revenues, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. we may encounter difficulty acquiring hospitals and other health care businesses, encounter challenges integrating the operations of acquired hospitals and other health care businesses and become liable for unknown or contingent liabilities as a result of acquisitions. a component of our business strategy is acquiring hospitals and other health care businesses. we may encounter difficulty acquiring new facilities as a result of competition from other purchasers that may be willing to pay purchase prices that are higher than we believe are reasonable. some states require cons in order to acquire a hospital or other facility or to expand facilities or services. in addition, the acquisition of health care facilities often involves licensure approvals or reviews and complex change of ownership processes for medicare and other payers. further, many states have laws that restrict the conversion or sale of not-for-profit hospitals to for-profit entities. these laws may require prior approval from the state attorney general, advance notification of the attorney general or other regulators and community involvement. attorneys general in states without specific requirements may exercise broad discretionary authority over transactions involving the sale of not-for-profits under their general obligations to protect the use of charitable assets. these conversion legislative and administrative efforts often focus on the appropriate valuation of the assets divested and the use of the proceeds of the sale by the non-profit seller and may include consideration of commitments for capital improvements and charity care by the purchaser. also, the increasingly challenging regulatory and enforcement environment may 48 table of contents negatively impact our ability to acquire health care businesses if they are found to have material unresolved compliance issues, such as repayment obligations. resolving compliance issues as well as completion of oversight, review or approval processes could seriously delay or even prevent our ability to acquire hospitals or other businesses and increase our acquisition costs. we may be unable to timely and effectively integrate hospitals and other businesses that we acquire with our ongoing operations, or we may experience delays implementing operating procedures and systems. hospitals and other health care businesses that we acquire may have unknown or contingent liabilities, including liabilities for failure to comply with health care and other laws and regulations, medical and general professional liabilities, workers compensation liabilities and tax liabilities. although we typically exclude significant liabilities from our acquisition transactions and seek indemnification from the sellers for these matters, we could experience difficulty enforcing those obligations, experience liability in excess of any indemnification obtained or otherwise incur material liabilities for the pre-acquisition conduct of acquired businesses. such liabilities and related legal or other costs could harm our business and results of operations. our facilities are heavily concentrated in florida and texas, which makes us sensitive to regulatory, economic, environmental and competitive conditions and changes in those states. we operated 165 hospitals at december 31, 2013, and 78 of those hospitals are located in florida and texas. our florida and texas facilities combined revenues represented approximately 46% of our consolidated revenues for the year ended december 31, 2013. this concentration makes us particularly sensitive to regulatory, economic, environmental and competitive conditions and changes in those states. any material change in the current payment programs or regulatory, economic, environmental or competitive conditions in those states could have a disproportionate effect on our overall business results. in addition, our hospitals in florida, texas and other areas across the gulf coast are located in hurricane-prone areas. in the past, hurricanes have had a disruptive effect on the operations of our hospitals in florida, texas and other coastal states and the patient populations in those states. our business activities could be harmed by a particularly active hurricane season or even a single storm, and the property insurance we obtain may not be adequate to cover losses from future hurricanes or other natural disasters. we may be subject to liabilities from claims by the internal revenue service. we expect the irs examination division will begin an audit of hca holdings, inc. 2011 federal income tax return in 2014. management believes hca holdings, inc., its predecessors, subsidiaries and affiliates properly reported taxable income and paid taxes in accordance with applicable laws and agreements established with the irs and final resolution of any disputes will not have a material, adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. however, if payments due upon final resolution of any issues exceed our recorded estimates, such resolutions could have a material, adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. we may be subject to liabilities from claims brought against our facilities. we are subject to litigation relating to our business practices, including claims and legal actions by patients and others in the ordinary course of business alleging malpractice, product liability or other legal theories. many of these actions seek large sums of money as damages and involve significant defense costs. we insure a portion of our professional liability risks through a 100% owned subsidiary. management believes our reserves for self-insured retentions and insurance coverage are sufficient to cover insured claims arising out of the operation of our facilities. our 100% owned liability insurance subsidiary has entered into certain reinsurance contracts, and the obligations covered by the reinsurance contracts are included in its reserves for professional liability risks, as the subsidiary remains liable to the extent that the reinsurers do not meet their obligations under the reinsurance 49 table of contents contracts. if payments for claims exceed actuarially determined estimates, are not covered by insurance, or reinsurers, if any, fail to meet their obligations, our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected. we are exposed to market risks related to changes in the market values of securities and interest rate changes. we are exposed to market risk related to changes in market values of securities. the investments in debt and equity securities of our 100% owned insurance subsidiaries were $506 million and $4 million, respectively, at december 31, 2013. these investments are carried at fair value, with changes in unrealized gains and losses being recorded as adjustments to other comprehensive income. at december 31, 2013, we had a net unrealized gain of $10 million on the insurance subsidiaries investment securities. we are exposed to market risk related to market illiquidity. investments in debt and equity securities of our 100% owned insurance subsidiaries could be impaired by the inability to access the capital markets. should the 100% owned insurance subsidiaries require significant amounts of cash in excess of normal cash requirements to pay claims and other expenses on short notice, we may have difficulty selling these investments in a timely manner or be forced to sell them at a price less than what we might otherwise have been able to in a normal market environment. we may be required to recognize other-than-temporary impairments on long-term investments in future periods should issuers default on interest payments or should the fair market valuations of the securities deteriorate due to ratings downgrades or other issue specific factors. we are also exposed to market risk related to changes in interest rates, and we periodically enter into interest rate swap agreements to manage our exposure to these fluctuations. our interest rate swap agreements involve the exchange of fixed and variable rate interest payments between two parties, based on common notional principal amounts and maturity dates. the notional amounts of the swap agreements represent balances used to calculate the exchange of cash flows and are not our assets or liabilities. the investors continue to have influence over us and may have conflicts of interest with us in the future. through their investment in hercules holdings ii, llc, the investors continue to hold a significant interest in our outstanding common stock (approximately 29% as of january 31, 2014). in addition, pursuant to a shareholders agreement we entered into with hercules holdings ii, llc, representatives of the investors have the continued right to designate certain of the members of our board of directors. as a result, the investors potentially have the ability to influence our decisions to enter into corporate transactions (and the terms thereof) and to potentially prevent changes in the composition of our board of directors and any transaction that requires stockholder approval. additionally, the investors are in the business of making investments in companies and may acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. one or more of the investors may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 82 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information with respect to this item is provided under the caption market risk under item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations.risk factors 36 risk factors if any of the events discussed in the following risk factors were to occur, our business, financial position, results of operations, cash flows or prospects could be materially, adversely affected. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known, or currently deemed immaterial, may also constrain our business and operations. our substantial leverage could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry, expose us to interest rate risk to the extent of our variable rate debt and prevent us from meeting our obligations. we are highly leveraged. as of december 31, 2014, our total indebtedness was $29.645 billion. as of december 31, 2014, we had availability of $1.944 billion under our senior secured revolving credit facility and $168 million under our asset-based revolving credit facility, after giving effect to letters of credit and borrowing base limitations. our high degree of leverage could have important consequences, including: increasing our vulnerability to downturns or adverse changes in general economic, industry or competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulations; requiring a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, therefore reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities; exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our unhedged borrowings are at variable rates of interest; limiting our ability to make strategic acquisitions or causing us to make nonstrategic divestitures; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product or service line development, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who are less highly leveraged. 36 table of contents we and our subsidiaries have the ability to incur additional indebtedness in the future, subject to the restrictions contained in our senior secured credit facilities and the indentures governing our outstanding notes. if new indebtedness is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could intensify. we may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may not be able to refinance our indebtedness on favorable terms. if we are unable to do so, we may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. we cannot assure you we will maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. in addition, we conduct our operations through our subsidiaries. accordingly, repayment of our indebtedness is dependent on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise. our subsidiaries may not be able to, or may not be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness. each subsidiary is a distinct legal entity, and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. we may find it necessary or prudent to refinance our outstanding indebtedness with longer-maturity debt at a higher interest rate. our ability to refinance our indebtedness on favorable terms, or at all, is directly affected by the current global economic and financial conditions. in addition, our ability to incur secured indebtedness (which would generally enable us to achieve better pricing than the incurrence of unsecured indebtedness) depends in part on the value of our assets, which depends, in turn, on the strength of our cash flows and results of operations, and on economic and market conditions and other factors. if our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations or we are unable to refinance our indebtedness, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure our indebtedness. these alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. if our operating results and available cash are insufficient to meet our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. we may not be able to consummate those dispositions, or the proceeds from the dispositions may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. our debt agreements contain restrictions that limit our flexibility in operating our business. our senior secured credit facilities and, to a lesser extent, the indentures governing our outstanding notes contain various covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions. these covenants limit our and certain of our subsidiaries ability to, among other things: incur additional indebtedness or issue certain preferred shares; pay dividends on, repurchase or make distributions in respect of our capital stock or make other restricted payments; make certain investments; sell or transfer assets; create liens; consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and enter into certain transactions with our affiliates. 37 table of contents under our asset-based revolving credit facility, when (and for as long as) the combined availability under our asset-based revolving credit facility and our senior secured revolving credit facility is less than a specified amount for a certain period of time or, if a payment or bankruptcy event of default has occurred and is continuing, funds deposited into any of our depository accounts will be transferred on a daily basis into a blocked account with the administrative agent and applied to prepay loans under the asset-based revolving credit facility and to cash collateralize letters of credit issued thereunder. under our senior secured credit facilities, we are required to satisfy and maintain specified financial ratios. our ability to meet those financial ratios can be affected by events beyond our control, and there can be no assurance we will continue to meet those ratios. a breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under both the cash flow credit facility and the asset-based revolving credit facility. upon the occurrence of an event of default under the senior secured credit facilities, the lenders thereunder could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the senior secured credit facilities to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. if we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under the senior secured credit facilities could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure such indebtedness. we have pledged a significant portion of our assets under our senior secured credit facilities and that collateral is also pledged as collateral under our first lien notes. if any of the lenders under the senior secured credit facilities accelerate the repayment of borrowings, there can be no assurance there will be sufficient assets to repay the senior secured credit facilities, the first lien notes and our other indebtedness. our hospitals face competition for patients from other hospitals and health care providers. the health care business is highly competitive, and competition among hospitals and other health care providers for patients has intensified in recent years. generally, other hospitals in the communities we serve provide services similar to those offered by our hospitals. in addition, cms publicizes on its hospital compare website performance data related to quality measures and data on patient satisfaction surveys hospitals submit in connection with their medicare reimbursement. federal law provides for the future expansion of the number of quality measures that must be reported. additional quality measures and future trends toward clinical transparency may have an unanticipated impact on our competitive position and patient volumes. further, every hospital must establish and update annually a public listing of the hospital standard charges for items and services. if any of our hospitals achieve poor results (or results that are lower than our competitors) on these quality measures or on patient satisfaction surveys or if our standard charges are higher than our competitors, our patient volumes could decline. in addition, the number of freestanding specialty hospitals, surgery centers, emergency departments, urgent care centers and diagnostic and imaging centers in the geographic areas in which we operate has increased significantly. as a result, most of our hospitals operate in a highly competitive environment. some of the facilities that compete with our hospitals are physician-owned or are owned by governmental agencies or not-for-profit corporations supported by endowments, charitable contributions and/or tax revenues and can finance capital expenditures and operations on a tax-exempt basis. our hospitals face competition from competitors that are implementing physician alignment strategies, such as employing physicians, acquiring physician practice groups and participating in acos or other clinical integration models. our hospitals compete with specialty hospitals and with both our own and unaffiliated freestanding surgery centers for market share in certain high margin services and for quality physicians and personnel. if ambulatory surgery centers are better able to compete in this environment than our hospitals, our hospitals may experience a decline in patient volume, and we may experience a decrease in margin, even if those patients use our ambulatory surgery centers. in states that do not require a con or other type of approval for the purchase, construction or expansion of health care facilities or services, competition in the form of new services, facilities and capital spending is more prevalent. further, if our competitors are better able to attract patients, make capital expenditures and maintain modern and technologically upgraded facilities and equipment, recruit physicians, expand services or obtain favorable managed care contracts at their facilities than our hospitals and ambulatory surgery centers, we may experience an overall decline in patient volume. see item 1, business competition. 38 table of contents a deterioration in the collectability of uninsured and patient due accounts could adversely affect our results of operations. the primary collection risks of our accounts receivable relate to the uninsured patient accounts and patient accounts for which the primary insurance carrier has paid the amounts covered by the applicable agreement, but patient responsibility amounts (exclusions, deductibles and copayments) remain outstanding. the provision for doubtful accounts relates primarily to amounts due directly from patients. medicare reimburses hospitals for 65% of eligible medicare bad debts. to be eligible for reimbursement, the amounts claimed must meet certain criteria, including that the debt is related to unpaid deductible or coinsurance amounts and that the hospital first attempted to collect the fees from the medicare beneficiary. the amount of the provision for doubtful accounts is based upon management assessment of historical write-offs and expected net collections, business and economic conditions, trends in federal and state governmental and private employer health care coverage, the rate of growth in uninsured patient admissions and other collection indicators. at december 31, 2014, our allowance for doubtful accounts represented approximately 91.4% of the $5.482 billion patient due accounts receivable balance. the sum of the provision for doubtful accounts, uninsured discounts and charity care increased from $13.841 billion for 2012 to $15.565 billion for 2013 and to $15.943 billion for 2014. any increase in the amount or deterioration in the collectability of uninsured accounts receivable will adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations. our facilities may experience growth in bad debts, uninsured discounts and charity care as a result of a number of factors, including conditions impacting the overall economy and high unemployment. the health reform law contains provisions that seek to decrease, over time, the number of uninsured individuals through reforms, most of which became effective january 1, 2014, but it is difficult to predict the full impact of the health reform law. for example, a number of states have opted out of the medicaid expansion. further, the employer mandate, which requires firms with 50 or more full-time employees to offer health insurance or pay fines, will not be fully implemented until january 1, 2016. even after full implementation of the health reform law, we may continue to experience bad debts and have to provide uninsured discounts and charity care for individuals residing in states that choose not to implement the medicaid expansion, for undocumented aliens who are not permitted to enroll in an exchange or government health care programs and for certain others who may not have insurance coverage. further, implementation of the health reform law could result in some patients terminating their current insurance plans in favor of lower cost medicaid plans or other insurance coverage with lower reimbursement levels. we may also be adversely affected by the growth in patient responsibility accounts as a result of increases in the adoption of plan structures that shift greater responsibility for care to individuals through greater exclusions and copayment and deductible amounts. changes in government health care programs may adversely affect our revenues. a significant portion of our patient volume is derived from government health care programs, principally medicare and medicaid. specifically, we derived 42.6% of our revenues from the medicare and medicaid programs in 2014. changes in government health care programs may reduce the reimbursement we receive and could adversely affect our business and results of operations. in recent years, legislative and regulatory changes have resulted in limitations on and, in some cases, reductions in levels of payments to health care providers for certain services under the medicare program. the budget control act of 2011 (the bca ) requires automatic spending reductions of $1.2 trillion for federal fiscal years 2013 through 2021, minus any deficit reductions enacted by congress and debt service costs. however, the percentage reduction for medicare may not be more than 2% for a fiscal year, with a uniform percentage reduction across all medicare programs. these reductions have been extended by congress through 2024. we are unable to predict what other deficit reduction initiatives may be proposed by congress or whether congress will attempt to suspend or restructure the automatic budget cuts. these reductions are in addition to reductions mandated by the health reform law, which provides for material reductions in the growth of medicare program spending, including reductions in medicare market basket updates and medicare dsh funding. further, from 39 table of contents time to time, cms revises the reimbursement systems used to reimburse health care providers, including changes to the ms-drg system and other payment systems, which may result in reduced medicare payments. for example, cms has established what is referred to as the two midnight rule, which provides that medicare beneficiaries are only to be admitted as inpatients when there is a reasonable expectation that the hospital care is medically necessary and will be required across two midnights, absent unusual circumstances. compliance with the rule became required for admissions beginning october 1, 2013 and will become subject to rac audits for admissions on or after april 1, 2015. because most states must operate with balanced budgets and because the medicaid program is often a state largest program, some states have enacted or may consider enacting legislation designed to reduce their medicaid expenditures. further, many states have also adopted, or are considering, legislation designed to reduce coverage, enroll medicaid recipients in managed care programs and/or impose additional taxes on hospitals to help finance or expand the states medicaid systems. the economic downturn increased the budgetary pressures on many states, and these budgetary pressures have resulted, and likely may continue to result, in decreased spending, or decreased spending growth, for medicaid programs and the children health insurance program in many states. some states that provide medicaid supplemental payments are reviewing these programs or have filed waiver requests with cms to replace these programs, which could result in medicaid supplemental payments being reduced or eliminated. cms approved a five-year medicaid waiver in december 2011 that allows texas to continue receiving supplemental medicaid reimbursement while expanding its medicaid managed care program. on october 1, 2014, the texas health and human services commission ( thhsc ) issued a notice to hospitals participating in the texas medicaid waiver program. according to the notice, a review conducted by cms identified certain local government/hospital affiliations it believes may be inconsistent with the waiver. in addition, cms notified thhsc that it would defer the federal portion of the medicaid payments associated with the affiliations while it completes the review. cms announced on january 7, 2015 that the payment deferral has been released, but the review is continuing. we cannot predict whether the texas private supplemental medicaid waiver program will continue or guarantee that revenues recognized from the program will not decrease. the health reform law made changes to the medicaid program and will likely cause additional changes in the future. for example, the health reform law provides for material reductions to medicaid dsh funding. the health reform law will result in increased state legislative and regulatory changes in order for states to comply with new federal mandates, such as the requirement to establish or participate in exchanges and to participate in grants and other incentive opportunities. a number of states have opted out of the medicaid expansion provisions of the health reform law, but these states could choose to implement the expansion at a later date. it is unclear how many states will ultimately implement the medicaid expansion provisions of the law. in some cases, commercial third-party payers rely on all or portions of medicare payment systems to determine payment rates. changes to government health care programs that reduce payments under these programs may negatively impact payments from commercial third-party payers. current or future health care reform and deficit reduction efforts, changes in laws or regulations regarding government health care programs, other changes in the administration of government health care programs and changes to commercial third-party payers in response to health care reform and other changes to government health care programs could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. we are unable to predict the ultimate impact of the health reform law, which represents a significant change to the health care industry. the health reform law changes how health care services are covered, delivered, and reimbursed through expanded coverage of uninsured individuals, reduced growth in medicare program spending, reductions in medicare and medicaid dsh payments and the establishment and expansion of programs that tie reimbursement to quality and integration. in addition, the law reforms certain aspects of health insurance, contains provisions intended to strengthen fraud and abuse enforcement and establishes acos and bundled payment pilot programs. 40 table of contents the expansion of health insurance coverage under the health reform law may result in an increase in the number of patients using our facilities who have either private or public program coverage, and our facilities may benefit from health reform law initiatives that create possible sources of additional revenue. however, any positive effects of the health reform law could be offset and the company could be significantly impacted by reductions to the medicare and medicaid programs. substantial uncertainty remains regarding the net effect of the health reform law on the company because the resolution of a number of material factors remains unclear, including the following: how many states will ultimately implement the medicaid expansion provisions and under what terms; the potential for and impact of further delays in or complications related to implementation of the health reform law (for example, there were significant problems during the initial implementation of the exchanges that negatively impacted the ability of individuals to purchase health insurance); the possibility of enactment of additional federal or state health care reforms and possible changes to the health reform law; our ability to participate in health insurance plans offered through the exchanges and the terms of our participation as well as treatment of out of network claims; how many previously uninsured individuals will obtain coverage as a result of the health reform law (based on the cbo january 2015 estimates, by 2025, the health reform law will expand coverage to 27 million additional individuals); what percentage of the newly insured patients will be covered under the medicaid program and what percentage will be covered by private health insurers; the extent to which states will enroll new medicaid participants in managed care programs; the pace at which insurance coverage expands, including the pace of different types of coverage expansion; the change, if any, in the volume of inpatient and outpatient hospital services that are sought by and provided to previously uninsured individuals; the rate paid to hospitals by private payers for newly covered individuals and individuals with existing coverage including those covered through health insurance plans offered through the exchanges, some of whom may have been previously covered by employer-sponsored plans; the rate paid by state governments and private payers pursuant to contracts with the state under the medicaid program for newly covered individuals; the effect of the value-based purchasing provisions of the health reform law on our hospitals revenues and the effects of other quality programs; the percentage of individuals in the exchanges who select restricted network plans, since health insurers offering those kinds of products have traditionally sought to pay lower rates to hospitals; the amount of overall revenues the company will generate from medicare and medicaid business when the reductions are implemented (42.6% of our revenues in 2014 were from medicare and medicaid); the size of the health reform law annual productivity adjustment to the market basket; the amount of the medicare dsh reductions and the allocation of the medicaid dsh reductions to our hospitals; how successful acos will be at coordinating care and reducing costs or whether they will decrease reimbursement; the scope and nature of potential changes to medicare reimbursement methods, such as an emphasis on bundling payments or coordination of care programs; 41 table of contents whether the company revenues from medicaid supplemental programs developed through a federally approved waiver program ( waiver program ), will be adversely affected because there may be reductions in available state and local government funding for the programs; and the impact of court challenges, including the king v. burwell challenge to the extension of premium subsidies to plans purchased through federally-operated exchanges, and efforts to repeal or revise the health reform law. if we are unable to retain and negotiate favorable contracts with nongovernment payers, including managed care plans, our revenues may be reduced. our ability to obtain favorable contracts with nongovernment payers, including hmos, ppos and other managed care plans significantly affects the revenues and operating results of our facilities. revenues derived from these entities and other insurers (domestic only) accounted for 54.4%, 54.6% and 54.5% of our revenues for 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. nongovernment payers, including managed care payers, continue to demand discounted fee structures, and the trend toward consolidation among nongovernment payers tends to increase their bargaining power over fee structures. as various provisions of the health reform law are implemented, including the exchanges, nongovernment payers increasingly may demand reduced fees and utilize plan structures such as narrow networks and tiered networks that limit beneficiary provider choices or impose significantly higher cost sharing obligations when care is obtained from providers in a disfavored tier. other health care providers may impact our ability to enter into managed care contracts or negotiate increases in our reimbursement and other favorable terms and conditions. for example, some of our competitors may negotiate exclusivity provisions with managed care plans or otherwise restrict the ability of managed care companies to contract with us. our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to retain and renew our managed care contracts and enter into new managed care contracts on terms favorable to us. it is not clear what impact, if any, the increased obligations on managed care payers and other payers imposed by the health reform law will have on our ability to negotiate reimbursement increases and participate in plan networks on favorable terms. if we are unable to retain and negotiate favorable contracts with managed care plans or experience reductions in payment increases or amounts received from nongovernment payers, our revenues may be reduced. our performance depends on our ability to recruit and retain quality physicians. the success of our hospitals depends in part on the number and quality of the physicians on the medical staffs of our hospitals, the admitting and utilization practices of those physicians, maintaining good relations with those physicians and controlling costs related to the employment of physicians. although we employ some physicians, physicians are often not employees of the hospitals at which they practice and, in many of the markets we serve, most physicians have admitting privileges at other hospitals in addition to our hospitals. such physicians may terminate their affiliation with our hospitals at any time. if we are unable to provide adequate support personnel or technologically advanced equipment and hospital facilities that meet the needs of those physicians and their patients, they may be discouraged from referring patients to our facilities, admissions may decrease and our operating performance may decline. our hospitals face competition for staffing, which may increase labor costs and reduce profitability. our operations are dependent on the efforts, abilities and experience of our management and medical support personnel, such as nurses, pharmacists and lab technicians, as well as our physicians. we compete with other health care providers in recruiting and retaining qualified management and support personnel responsible for the daily operations of each of our hospitals, including nurses and other nonphysician health care professionals. in some markets, the availability of nurses and other medical support personnel has been a significant operating issue to health care providers. we may be required to continue to enhance wages and benefits to recruit and retain nurses and other medical support personnel or to hire more expensive temporary or contract personnel. as a result, our labor costs could increase. we also depend on the available labor pool of semi-skilled and unskilled employees in each of the markets in which we operate. certain proposed changes in federal labor laws and the nlrb modification of its election procedures could increase the likelihood of 42 table of contents employee unionization attempts. to the extent a significant portion of our employee base unionizes, it is possible our labor costs could increase materially. when negotiating collective bargaining agreements with unions, whether such agreements are renewals or first contracts, there is the possibility that strikes could occur during the negotiation process, and our continued operation during any strikes could increase our labor costs. in addition, the states in which we operate could adopt mandatory nurse-staffing ratios or could reduce mandatory nurse staffing ratios already in place. state-mandated nurse-staffing ratios could significantly affect labor costs and have an adverse impact on revenues if we are required to limit admissions in order to meet the required ratios. if our labor costs increase, we may not be able to raise rates to offset these increased costs. because a significant percentage of our revenues consists of fixed, prospective payments, our ability to pass along increased labor costs is constrained. our failure to recruit and retain qualified management, nurses and other medical support personnel, or to control labor costs, could have a material, adverse effect on our results of operations. if we fail to comply with extensive laws and government regulations, we could suffer penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations. the health care industry is required to comply with extensive and complex laws and regulations at the federal, state and local government levels relating to, among other things: billing and coding for services and properly handling overpayments; appropriateness and classification of level of care provided, including proper classification of inpatient admissions, observation services and outpatient care; relationships with physicians and other referral sources and referral recipients; necessity and adequacy of medical care; quality of medical equipment and services; qualifications of medical and support personnel; confidentiality, maintenance, data breach, identity theft and security issues associated with health-related and personal information and medical records; screening, stabilization and transfer of individuals who have emergency medical conditions; licensure, certification and enrollment with government programs; hospital rate or budget review; debt collection; preparing and filing of cost reports; operating policies and procedures; activities regarding competitors; addition of facilities and services; and environmental protection. among these laws are the federal anti-kickback statute, the federal stark law, the federal fca and similar state laws. we have a variety of financial relationships with physicians and others who either refer or influence the referral of patients to our hospitals, other health care facilities and employed physicians or who are the recipients of referrals, and these laws govern those relationships. the oig has enacted safe harbor regulations that outline practices deemed protected from prosecution under the anti-kickback statute. while we endeavor to comply with the applicable safe harbors, certain of our current arrangements, including joint ventures and financial relationships with physicians and other referral sources and persons and entities to which we refer patients, do not qualify for safe harbor protection. failure to qualify for a safe harbor does not mean the arrangement necessarily violates the anti-kickback statute but may subject the arrangement to greater scrutiny. however, we cannot offer assurance that practices outside of a safe harbor will not be found to violate the anti- 43 table of contents kickback statute. allegations of violations of the anti-kickback statute may be brought under the federal civil monetary penalty law, which requires a lower burden of proof than other fraud and abuse laws, including the anti-kickback statute. our financial relationships with referring physicians and their immediate family members must comply with the stark law by meeting an exception. we attempt to structure our relationships to meet an exception to the stark law, but the regulations implementing the exceptions are detailed and complex, and we cannot provide assurance that every relationship complies fully with the stark law. unlike the anti-kickback statute, failure to meet an exception under the stark law results in a violation of the stark law, even if such violation is technical in nature. additionally, if we violate the anti-kickback statute or stark law, or if we improperly bill for our services, we may be found to violate the fca, either under a suit brought by the government or by a private person under a qui tam , or whistleblower, suit. see item 1, business regulation and other factors. we also operate health care facilities in the united kingdom and have operations and commercial relationships with companies in other foreign jurisdictions and, as a result, are subject to certain u.s. and foreign laws applicable to businesses generally, including anti-corruption laws. the foreign corrupt practices act regulates u.s. companies in their dealings with foreign officials, prohibiting bribes and similar practices, and requires that they maintain records that fairly and accurately reflect transactions and appropriate internal accounting controls. in addition, the united kingdom bribery act has wide jurisdiction over certain activities that affect the united kingdom. if we fail to comply with these or other applicable laws and regulations, we could be subject to liabilities, including civil penalties, the loss of our licenses to operate one or more facilities, exclusion of one or more facilities from participation in the medicare, medicaid and other federal and state health care programs and criminal penalties. we do not always have the benefit of significant regulatory or judicial interpretation of these laws and regulations. in the future, different interpretations or enforcement of, or amendment to, these or other laws and regulations could subject our current or past practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality or could require us to make changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel, services, capital expenditure programs and operating expenses. a determination that we have violated these or other laws, or the public announcement that we are being investigated for possible violations of these or other laws, could have a material, adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects, and our business reputation could suffer significantly. in addition, other legislation or regulations at the federal or state level may be adopted that adversely affect our business. we have been and could become the subject of governmental investigations, claims and litigation. health care companies are subject to numerous investigations by various governmental agencies. further, under the fca, private parties have the right to bring qui tam , or whistleblower, suits against companies that submit false claims for payments to, or improperly retain overpayments from, the government. some states have adopted similar state whistleblower and false claims provisions. certain of our individual facilities have received, and other facilities may receive, government inquiries from, and may be subject to investigation by, federal and state agencies. depending on whether the underlying conduct in these or future inquiries or investigations could be considered systemic, their resolution could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. governmental agencies and their agents, such as the medicare administrative contractors, fiscal intermediaries and carriers, as well as the oig, cms and state medicaid programs, conduct audits of our health care operations. private payers may conduct similar post-payment audits, and we also perform internal audits and monitoring. depending on the nature of the conduct found in such audits and whether the underlying conduct could be considered systemic, the resolution of these audits could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. 44 table of contents cms contracts with racs on a contingency fee basis to conduct post-payment reviews to detect and correct improper payments in the fee-for-service medicare program. the health reform law expands the rac program scope to include managed medicare plans and medicaid claims. rac denials are appealable; however, hhs has imposed a suspension of assignment of new medicare appeals to administrative law judges for at least two years beginning july 16, 2013, which negatively impacts our ability to appeal rac payment denials. hhs recently offered to pay hospitals 68% of the net allowable amount associated with inpatient status claims denials in exchange for the withdrawal of all medical claims appealed. we accepted the settlement offer and executed an administrative agreement with hhs. in addition, cms employs mics to perform post-payment audits of medicaid claims and identify overpayments. the health reform law increases federal funding for the mic program. in addition to racs and mics, the state medicaid agencies and other contractors have increased their review activities. should we be found out of compliance with any of these laws, regulations or programs, depending on the nature of the findings, our business, our financial position and our results of operations could be negatively impacted. changes to physician utilization practices and treatment methodologies or governmental or managed care controls designed to reduce inpatient services or surgical procedures may reduce our revenues. controls imposed by medicare, managed medicare, medicaid, managed medicaid and commercial third-party payers designed to reduce admissions, intensity of services, surgical volumes and lengths of stay, in some instances referred to as utilization review, have affected and are expected to continue to affect our facilities. utilization review entails the review of the admission and course of treatment of a patient by health plans. the medicare program also issues national or local coverage determinations that restrict the circumstances under which medicare pays for certain services. inpatient utilization, average lengths of stay and occupancy rates continue to be negatively affected by payer-required preadmission authorization, coverage restrictions and utilization review and by payer pressure to maximize outpatient and alternative health care delivery services for less acutely ill patients. efforts to impose more stringent cost controls are expected to continue. for example, the health reform law expanded the use of prepayment review by medicare contractors by eliminating statutory restrictions on their use. additionally, trends in physician treatment protocols and managed care health plan design, such as plans that shift increased costs and accountability for care to patients, could reduce our surgical volumes and admissions in favor of lower intensity and lower cost treatment methodologies. changes in treatment regimens and medical technology advances may reduce the demand for services we offer and decrease the reimbursement that we receive. significant limits on the scope of services reimbursed, cost controls, and changes to physician utilization practices, treatment methodologies, reimbursement rates and fees could have a material, adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. our overall business results may suffer during periods of general economic weakness. budget deficits at federal, state and local government entities have had a negative impact on spending, and may continue to negatively impact spending, for health and human service programs, including medicare, medicaid and similar programs, which represent significant payer sources for our hospitals. other risks we face during periods of economic weakness and high unemployment include potential declines in the population covered under managed care agreements, patient decisions to postpone or cancel elective and nonemergency health care procedures (including delaying surgical procedures), potential increases in the uninsured and underinsured populations and further difficulties in collecting patient copayment and deductible receivables. the industry trend toward value-based purchasing may negatively impact our revenues. there is a trend in the health care industry toward value-based purchasing of health care services. these value-based purchasing programs include both public reporting of quality data and preventable adverse events 45 table of contents tied to the quality and efficiency of care provided by facilities. governmental programs including medicare currently require hospitals to report certain quality data to receive full reimbursement updates. in addition, medicare does not reimburse for care related to certain preventable adverse events (also called never events ). the health reform law also prohibits the use of federal funds under the medicaid program to reimburse providers for medical assistance provided to treat hacs. beginning in federal fiscal year 2015, the 25% of hospitals with the worst risk-adjusted hac rates in the designated performance period will receive a 1% reduction in their inpatient pps medicare payments. hospitals with excess readmission rates for conditions designated by hhs will receive a reduction in their inpatient pps operating medicare payments for all medicare inpatient discharges, not just discharges relating to the conditions subject to the excess readmission standard. the reduction in payments to hospitals with excess readmissions is capped at 3% for federal fiscal year 2015 and subsequent years. as required by the health reform law, hhs has implemented a value-based purchasing program for inpatient hospital services that reduces inpatient hospital payments for all discharges by 1.5% in federal fiscal year 2015. this percentage increases by 0.25% each fiscal year up to 2% in federal fiscal year 2017 and subsequent years. hhs pools the amount collected from these reductions to fund payments to reward hospitals that meet or exceed certain quality performance standards established by hhs. hhs estimates that it will distribute $1.4 billion to hospitals in federal fiscal year 2015 based on their achievement (relative to other hospitals) and improvement (relative to the hospital own past performance). hospitals that meet or exceed the quality performance standards will receive greater reimbursement under the value-based purchasing program than they would have otherwise. many large commercial payers currently require hospitals to report quality data, and several commercial payers do not reimburse hospitals for certain preventable adverse events. further, we have implemented a policy pursuant to which we do not bill patients or third-party payers for fees or expenses incurred due to certain preventable adverse events. we expect value-based purchasing programs, including programs that condition reimbursement on patient outcome measures, to become more common and to involve a higher percentage of reimbursement amounts. we are unable at this time to predict our future reductions and payments under these programs or how this trend will affect our results of operations, but it could negatively impact our revenues. our operations could be impaired by a failure of our information systems. the performance of our information systems is critical to our business operations. in addition to our shared services initiatives, our information systems are essential to a number of critical areas of our operations, including: accounting and financial reporting; billing and collecting accounts; coding and compliance; clinical systems; medical records and document storage; inventory management; negotiating, pricing and administering managed care contracts and supply contracts; and monitoring quality of care and collecting data on quality measures necessary for full medicare payment updates. 46 table of contents information systems may be vulnerable to damage from a variety of sources, including telecommunications or network failures, human acts and natural disasters. we have taken precautionary measures to prevent unanticipated problems that could affect our information systems. nevertheless, we may experience system failures. the occurrence of any system failure could result in interruptions, delays, the loss or corruption of data and cessations or interruptions in the availability of systems, all of which could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations and harm our business reputation. a cyber security incident could result in a loss of confidential data, give rise to remediation and other expenses, expose us to liability under hipaa, consumer protection laws, or other common law theories, subject us to litigation and federal and state governmental inquiries, damage our reputation, and otherwise be disruptive to our business. we collect and store on our networks sensitive information, including intellectual property, proprietary business information and personally identifiable information of our patients and employees. in addition, we have made significant investments in technology to adopt and utilize electronic health records and to become meaningful users of health information technology. the secure maintenance of this information is critical to our business operations. we have implemented multiple layers of security measures to protect the confidentiality, integrity and availability of this data through technology, processes, and our people. we utilize current security technologies, and our defenses are monitored and routinely tested internally and by external parties. despite these efforts, threats from malicious persons and groups, new vulnerabilities and advanced new attacks against information systems create risk of cyber security incidents. there can be no assurance that we will not be subject to cyber security incidents that bypass our security measures, result in loss of personal health information or other data subject to privacy laws or disrupt our information systems or business. as a result, cyber security and the continued development and enhancement of our controls, processes and practices designed to protect our information systems from attack, damage or unauthorized access remain a priority for us. as cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any cyber security vulnerabilities. the occurrence of any of these events could result in (i) business interruptions and delays; (ii) the loss, misappropriation, corruption or unauthorized access of data; (iii) litigation and potential liability under privacy, security and consumer protection laws or other applicable laws; and (iv) federal and state governmental inquiries, any of which could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations and harm our business reputation. if we fail to effectively and timely implement electronic health record systems and transition to the icd-10 coding system, our operations could be adversely affected. as required by arra, the secretary of hhs has developed and implemented an incentive payment program for eligible hospitals and health care professionals that adopt and meaningfully use certified ehr technology. hhs uses the provider enrollment, chain and ownership system ( pecos ) to verify medicare enrollment prior to making ehr incentive program payments. during 2014, we received medicare and medicaid incentive payments for being a meaningful user of certified ehr technology and recorded incentive income of $125 million for the year. we have incurred and will continue to incur both capital costs and operating expenses in order to implement and maintain our certified ehr technology and meet meaningful use requirements. these expenses are ongoing and are projected to continue over all stages of implementation of meaningful use. the timing of expenses will not correlate with the receipt of the incentive payments and the recognition of incentive income. during 2014, we incurred $112 million of operating expenses to implement our certified ehr technology and to meet meaningful use. if our eligible hospitals and eligible employed professionals are unable to meet the requirements for participation in the incentive payment program, including having an enrollment record in pecos, we will not be eligible to receive incentive payments that could offset some of the costs of implementing certified ehr 47 table of contents technology. further, eligible hospitals and eligible professionals that have failed to demonstrate meaningful use of certified ehr technology in an applicable prior reporting period will be subject to reduced payments from medicare, beginning in federal fiscal year 2015 for eligible hospitals and calendar year 2015 for eligible professionals. failure to implement and continue to demonstrate meaningful use of certified ehr technology could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. health plans and providers, including our hospitals, are required to transition to the new icd-10 coding system, which greatly expands the number and detail of billing codes used for inpatient claims. use of the icd-10 system is required beginning october 1, 2015. transition to the new icd-10 system requires significant investment in training of staff and physicians involved in the coding and billing process as well as investment in coding technology and software. in addition to these upfront costs of transition to icd-10, it is possible that our hospitals could experience disruption or delays in payment due to technical or coding errors or other implementation issues involving our systems or the systems and implementation efforts of health plans and their business partners. further, the transition to the more detailed icd-10 coding system could result in decreased reimbursement if the use of icd-10 codes results in conditions being reclassified to ms-drgs or commercial payer payment groupings with lower levels of reimbursement than assigned under the previous system. the emergence and effects related to a pandemic, epidemic or outbreak of an infectious disease, such as the ebola virus, could adversely affect our operations. if a pandemic, epidemic, outbreak of an infectious disease, such as the ebola virus, or other public health crisis were to occur in an area in which we operate, our operations could be adversely affected. such a crisis could diminish the public trust in health care facilities, especially hospitals that fail to accurately or timely diagnose, or are treating (or have treated) patients affected by infectious diseases. if any of our facilities were involved, or perceived as being involved, in treating patients from such an infectious disease, patients might cancel elective procedures or fail to seek needed care at our facilities. further, a pandemic, epidemic or outbreak might adversely affect our operations by causing a temporary shutdown or diversion of patients, by disrupting or delaying production and delivery of materials and products in the supply chain or by causing staffing shortages in our facilities. we have disaster plans in place and operate pursuant to infectious disease protocols, but the potential emergence of a pandemic, epidemic or outbreak is difficult to predict and could adversely affect our operations. state efforts to regulate the construction or expansion of health care facilities could impair our ability to operate and expand our operations. some states, particularly in the eastern part of the country, require health care providers to obtain prior approval, often known as a con, for the purchase, construction or expansion of health care facilities, to make certain capital expenditures or to make changes in services or bed capacity. in giving approval, these states consider the need for additional or expanded health care facilities or services. we currently operate health care facilities in a number of states with con laws or that require other types of approvals for the establishment or expansion of certain facility types or services. the failure to obtain any requested con or other required approval could impair our ability to operate or expand operations. any such failure could, in turn, adversely affect our ability to attract patients and physicians to our facilities and grow our revenues, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. we may encounter difficulty acquiring hospitals and other health care businesses, encounter challenges integrating the operations of acquired hospitals and other health care businesses and become liable for unknown or contingent liabilities as a result of acquisitions. a component of our business strategy is acquiring hospitals and other health care businesses. we may encounter difficulty acquiring new facilities or other businesses as a result of competition from other purchasers that may be willing to pay purchase prices that are higher than we believe are reasonable. some states require cons in order to acquire a hospital or other facility or to expand facilities or services. in addition, the acquisition 48 table of contents of health care facilities often involves licensure approvals or reviews and complex change of ownership processes for medicare and other payers. further, many states have laws that restrict the conversion or sale of not-for-profit hospitals to for-profit entities. these laws may require prior approval from the state attorney general, advance notification of the attorney general or other regulators and community involvement. attorneys general in states without specific requirements may exercise broad discretionary authority over transactions involving the sale of not-for-profits under their general obligations to protect the use of charitable assets. these conversion legislative and administrative efforts often focus on the appropriate valuation of the assets divested and the use of the proceeds of the sale by the non-profit seller and may include consideration of commitments for capital improvements and charity care by the purchaser. also, the increasingly challenging regulatory and enforcement environment may negatively impact our ability to acquire health care businesses if they are found to have material unresolved compliance issues, such as repayment obligations. resolving compliance issues as well as completion of oversight, review or approval processes could seriously delay or even prevent our ability to acquire hospitals or other businesses and increase our acquisition costs. we may be unable to timely and effectively integrate hospitals and other businesses that we acquire with our ongoing operations, or we may experience delays implementing operating procedures and systems. hospitals and other health care businesses that we acquire may have unknown or contingent liabilities, including liabilities for failure to comply with health care and other laws and regulations, medical and general professional liabilities, workers compensation liabilities and tax liabilities. although we typically exclude significant liabilities from our acquisition transactions and seek indemnification from the sellers for these matters, we could experience difficulty enforcing those obligations, experience liability in excess of any indemnification obtained or otherwise incur material liabilities for the pre-acquisition conduct of acquired businesses. such liabilities and related legal or other costs could harm our business and results of operations. our facilities are heavily concentrated in florida and texas, which makes us sensitive to regulatory, economic, environmental and competitive conditions and changes in those states. we operated 166 hospitals at december 31, 2014, and 78 of those hospitals are located in florida and texas. our florida and texas facilities combined revenues represented approximately 46% of our consolidated revenues for the year ended december 31, 2014. this concentration makes us particularly sensitive to regulatory, economic, environmental and competitive conditions and changes in those states. any material change in the current payment programs or regulatory, economic, environmental or competitive conditions in those states could have a disproportionate effect on our overall business results. in addition, our hospitals in florida, texas and other areas across the gulf coast are located in hurricane-prone areas. in the past, hurricanes have had a disruptive effect on the operations of our hospitals in florida, texas and other coastal states and the patient populations in those states. our business activities could be harmed by a particularly active hurricane season or even a single storm, and the property insurance we obtain may not be adequate to cover losses from future hurricanes or other natural disasters. we may be subject to liabilities from claims by taxing authorities. the irs examination division began an audit of hca holdings, inc. 2011 and 2012 federal income tax returns during 2014. we are also subject to examination by state and foreign taxing authorities. management believes hca holdings, inc., its predecessors, subsidiaries and affiliates properly reported taxable income and paid taxes in accordance with applicable laws and agreements established with the irs, state and foreign taxing authorities and final resolution of any disputes will not have a material, adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. however, if payments due upon final resolution of any issues exceed our recorded estimates, such resolutions could have a material, adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. 49 table of contents we may be subject to liabilities from claims brought against our facilities. we are subject to litigation relating to our business practices, including claims and legal actions by patients and others in the ordinary course of business alleging malpractice, product liability or other legal theories. many of these actions seek large sums of money as damages and involve significant defense costs. we insure a portion of our professional liability risks through a 100% owned subsidiary. management believes our reserves for self-insured retentions and insurance coverage are sufficient to cover insured claims arising out of the operation of our facilities. our 100% owned liability insurance subsidiary has entered into certain reinsurance contracts, and the obligations covered by the reinsurance contracts are included in its reserves for professional liability risks, as the subsidiary remains liable to the extent that the reinsurers do not meet their obligations under the reinsurance contracts. if payments for claims exceed actuarially determined estimates, are not covered by insurance, or reinsurers, if any, fail to meet their obligations, our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected. we are exposed to market risk related to changes in the market values of securities and interest rate changes. we are exposed to market risk related to changes in market values of securities. the investments in debt and equity securities of our 100% owned insurance subsidiaries were $555 million and $3 million, respectively, at december 31, 2014. these investments are carried at fair value, with changes in unrealized gains and losses being recorded as adjustments to other comprehensive income. at december 31, 2014, we had a net unrealized gain of $19 million on the insurance subsidiaries investment securities. we are exposed to market risk related to market illiquidity. investments in debt and equity securities of our 100% owned insurance subsidiaries could be impaired by the inability to access the capital markets. should the 100% owned insurance subsidiaries require significant amounts of cash in excess of normal cash requirements to pay claims and other expenses on short notice, we may have difficulty selling these investments in a timely manner or be forced to sell them at a price less than what we might otherwise have been able to in a normal market environment. we may be required to recognize other-than-temporary impairments on long-term investments in future periods should issuers default on interest payments or should the fair market valuations of the securities deteriorate due to ratings downgrades or other issue specific factors. we are also exposed to market risk related to changes in interest rates, and we periodically enter into interest rate swap agreements to manage our exposure to these fluctuations. our interest rate swap agreements involve the exchange of fixed and variable rate interest payments between two parties, based on common notional principal amounts and maturity dates. the notional amounts of the swap agreements represent balances used to calculate the exchange of cash flows and are not our assets or liabilities. the investors may continue to have influence over us and may have conflicts of interest with us in the future. on november 17, 2006, hca inc. was acquired by a private investor group, including affiliates of or funds sponsored by bain capital partners, llc, kohlberg kravis roberts &amp; co., baml capital partners and hca founder, dr. thomas f. frist, jr. (collectively, the investors ) and by members of management and certain other investors. through their investment in hercules holding ii, llc, certain of the investors continue to hold a significant interest in our outstanding common stock (approximately 22% as of january 31, 2015). in addition, pursuant to a shareholders agreement we entered into with hercules holding ii, llc, certain representatives of the investors have the continued right to designate certain of the members of our board of directors. as a result, certain of the investors potentially have the ability to influence our decisions to enter into corporate transactions (and the terms thereof) and prevent changes in the composition of our board of directors and any transaction that requires stockholder approval. additionally, the investors are in the business of making investments in companies and may acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. one or more of the investors may also 50 table of contents pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 83 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information with respect to this item is provided under the caption market risk under item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations.risk factors 33 risk factors . general economic and demographic factors the health care industry is impacted by the overall united states economy. budget deficits at federal, state and local government entities have had a negative impact on spending for many health and human service programs, including medicare, medicaid and similar programs, which represent significant payer sources for our hospitals. we anticipate that the federal deficit, the growing magnitude of medicare expenditures and the aging of the united states population will continue to place pressure on federal health care programs. other risks we face during periods of economic weakness and high unemployment include potential declines in the population covered under managed care agreements, increased patient decisions to postpone or cancel elective and nonemergency health care procedures, increases in the uninsured and underinsured populations, increased adoption of health plan structures that shift financial responsibility to patients and further difficulties in our collecting patient receivables for copayment and deductible amounts. the health reform law seeks to decrease 27 table of contents over time the number of uninsured individuals, but it is difficult to predict the full impact of the health reform law. compliance program we maintain a comprehensive ethics and compliance program that is designed to meet or exceed applicable federal guidelines and industry standards. the program is intended to monitor and raise awareness of various regulatory issues among employees and to emphasize the importance of complying with governmental laws and regulations. as part of the ethics and compliance program, we provide annual ethics and compliance training to our employees and encourage all employees to report any violations to their supervisor, an ethics and compliance officer or a toll-free telephone ethics line. the health reform law requires providers to implement core elements of compliance program criteria to be established by hhs, on a timeline to be established by hhs, as a condition of enrollment in the medicare or medicaid programs, and we may have to modify our compliance programs to comply with these new criteria. antitrust laws the federal government and most states have enacted antitrust laws that prohibit certain types of conduct deemed to be anti-competitive. these laws prohibit price fixing, market allocation, bid-rigging, concerted refusal to deal, market monopolization, price discrimination, tying arrangements, acquisitions of competitors and other practices that have, or may have, an adverse effect on competition. violations of federal or state antitrust laws can result in various sanctions, including criminal and civil penalties. antitrust enforcement in the health care industry is currently a priority of the federal trade commission and the doj. we believe we are in compliance with such federal and state laws, but courts or regulatory authorities may reach a determination in the future that could adversely affect our operations. environmental matters we are subject to various federal, state and local statutes and ordinances regulating the discharge of materials into the environment. we do not believe that we will be required to expend any material amounts in order to comply with these laws and regulations. insurance as is typical in the health care industry, we are subject to claims and legal actions by patients in the ordinary course of business. subject, in most cases, to a $15 million per occurrence self-insured retention, our facilities are insured by our 100% owned insurance subsidiary for losses up to $50 million per occurrence. the insurance subsidiary has obtained reinsurance for professional liability risks generally above a retention level of $25 million per occurrence. we also maintain professional liability insurance with unrelated commercial carriers for losses in excess of amounts insured by our insurance subsidiary. we purchase, from unrelated insurance companies, coverage for cyber security incidents, directors and officers liability and property loss in amounts we believe are adequate. the cyber security and directors and officers liability coverage each include a $5 million corporate deductible. in addition, we will continue to purchase coverage for our directors and officers on an ongoing basis. the property coverage includes varying deductibles depending on the cause of the property damage. these deductibles range from $500,000 per claim up to 5% of the affected property values for certain flood and wind and earthquake related incidents. employees and medical staffs at december 31, 2015, we had approximately 233,000 employees, including approximately 59,000 part-time employees. references herein to employees refer to employees of our affiliates. we are subject to various 28 table of contents state and federal laws that regulate wages, hours, benefits and other terms and conditions relating to employment. at december 31, 2015, certain employees at 38 of our domestic hospitals are represented by various labor unions. while no elections are expected in 2016, it is possible additional hospitals may unionize in the future. we consider our employee relations to be good and have not experienced work stoppages that have materially, adversely affected our business or results of operations. our hospitals, like most hospitals, have experienced rising labor costs. in some markets, nurse and medical support personnel availability has become a significant operating issue to health care providers. to address this challenge, we have implemented several initiatives to improve retention, recruiting, compensation programs and productivity. our hospitals are staffed by licensed physicians, including both employed physicians and physicians who are not employees of our hospitals. some physicians provide services in our hospitals under contracts, which generally describe a term of service, provide and establish the duties and obligations of such physicians, require the maintenance of certain performance criteria and fix compensation for such services. any licensed physician may apply to be accepted to the medical staff of any of our hospitals, but the hospital medical staff and the appropriate governing board of the hospital, in accordance with established credentialing criteria, must approve acceptance to the staff. members of the medical staffs of our hospitals often also serve on the medical staffs of other hospitals and may terminate their affiliation with one of our hospitals at any time. we may be required to continue to enhance wages and benefits to recruit and retain nurses and other medical support personnel or to hire more expensive temporary or contract personnel. as a result, our labor costs could increase. we also depend on the available labor pool of semi-skilled and unskilled employees in each of the markets in which we operate. certain proposed changes in federal labor laws and the national labor relations board (the nlrb ) modification of its election procedures could increase the likelihood of employee unionization attempts. to the extent a significant portion of our employee base unionizes, our costs could increase materially. in addition, the states in which we operate could adopt mandatory nurse-staffing ratios or could reduce mandatory nurse-staffing ratios already in place. state-mandated nurse-staffing ratios could significantly affect labor costs, and have an adverse impact on revenues if we are required to limit patient admissions in order to meet the required ratios. 29 table of contents executive officers of the registrant as of january 31, 2016, our executive officers were as follows: name age position(s) r. milton johnson 59 chairman, chief executive officer and director david g. anderson 68 senior vice president finance victor l. campbell 69 senior vice president ravi s. chari, m.d. 50 senior vice president clinical excellence michael s. cuffe, m.d. 50 president physician services group jana j. davis 57 senior vice president corporate affairs jane d. englebright 57 senior vice president and chief nursing officer jon m. foster 54 president american group charles j. hall 62 president national group samuel n. hazen 55 chief operating officer a. bruce moore, jr. 55 president service line and operations integration sandra l. morgan 53 senior vice president provider relations p. martin paslick 56 senior vice president and chief information officer jonathan b. perlin, m.d. 54 president clinical services group and chief medical officer william b. rutherford 52 executive vice president and chief financial officer joseph a. sowell, iii 59 senior vice president and chief development officer joseph n. steakley 61 senior vice president internal audit services john m. steele 60 senior vice president human resources donald w. stinnett 59 senior vice president and controller juan vallarino 55 senior vice president employer and payer engagement robert a. waterman 62 senior vice president, general counsel and chief labor relations officer alan r. yuspeh 66 senior vice president and chief ethics and compliance officer r. milton johnson was appointed chairman and chief executive officer effective december 31, 2014. mr. johnson served as president and chief executive officer from january 1, 2014 to december 31, 2014 and has been a director of the company since december 2009. mr. johnson previously served the company as president and chief financial officer from february 2011 through december 2013 and executive vice president and chief financial officer from july 2004 to february 2011. prior to that time, he served as senior vice president and controller from july 1999 until july 2004 and as vice president and controller of the company from november 1998 to july 1999. from april 1995 to october 1998, mr. johnson served as vice president tax of the company. prior to that time, mr. johnson served as director of tax for healthtrust, inc. the hospital company from september 1987 to april 1995. david g. anderson has served as senior vice president finance since july 1999 and also served as treasurer of the company from november 1996 to july 2014. mr. anderson also served as vice president finance from september 1993 to july 1999. from march 1993 until september 1993, mr. anderson served as vice president finance and treasurer of galen health care, inc. from july 1988 to march 1993, mr. anderson served as vice president finance and treasurer of humana inc. mr. anderson is a member of the board of directors of avenue financial holdings, inc. victor l. campbell has served as senior vice president of the company since february 1994. he is responsible for government and investor relations. prior to that time, mr. campbell served as hca-hospital corporation of america vice president for investor, corporate and government relations. mr. campbell joined hca-hospital corporation of america in 1972. mr. campbell serves on the board of the coalition to protect america health care, as a member of the american hospital association president forum, and on the board and executive committee of the federation of american hospitals. 30 table of contents dr. ravi s. chari was appointed senior vice president clinical excellence in january 2015. prior to that time, dr. chari served as vice president clinical excellence from september 2011 to january 2015 and chief medical officer of hca tristar division from october 2010 to september 2011. he served as chief medical officer at centennial medical center from september 2008 to october 2010 and also served as interim chief operating officer of the sarah cannon cancer centers for the tristar division from october 2009 to march 2010. dr. chari has also served as clinical professor of surgery at vanderbilt university school of medicine since november 2008 and previously served as professor of surgery from 2005 to 2008 and associate professor from 2001 to 2005. dr. michael s. cuffe has served as president physician services group since october 2011. from october 2011 to january 2015, dr. cuffe also served as a vice president of the company. prior to that time, dr. cuffe served duke university health system as vice president for ambulatory services and chief medical officer from march 2011 to october 2011 and vice president medical affairs from june 2005 to march 2011. he also served duke university school of medicine as vice dean for medical affairs from june 2008 to march 2011, deputy chair of the department of medicine from august 2009 to august 2010 and associate professor of medicine from march 2005 to october 2011. prior that time, dr. cuffe served in various leadership roles with the duke clinical research institute, duke university medical center and duke university school of medicine. jana j. davis was appointed senior vice president corporate affairs of the company in december 2012. prior to that time, she served as the company senior vice president communications from february 2011 to december 2012 and vice president of communications from november 1997 to february 2011. ms. davis joined hca in 1997 from burson-marsteller, where she was a managing director and served as corporate practice chair for latin american operations. ms. davis also held a number of public affairs positions in the george h.w. bush and reagan administrations. ms. davis is an attorney and serves as chair of the public relations committee for the federation of american hospitals. dr. jane d. englebright was appointed senior vice president and chief nursing officer in january 2015. dr. englebright previously served as vice president and chief nursing officer from 2007 to january 2015. dr. englebright joined hca in 1992 as a critical care nurse at lewisville medical center in texas and became chief nursing officer of hca san antonio community hospital in 1996. dr. englebright currently serves as the at-large nursing representative to the joint commission board of commissioners and chairs the board of governors of the national patient safety foundation. jon m. foster was appointed president american group in january 2013. prior to that, mr. foster served as president southwest group from february 2011 to january 2013 and as division president for the central and west texas division from january 2006 to february 2011. mr. foster joined hca in march 2001 as president and ceo of st. david healthcare in austin, texas and served in that position until february 2011. prior to joining the company, mr. foster served in various executive capacities within the baptist health system, knoxville, tennessee and the methodist hospital system in houston, texas. charles j. hall was appointed president national group in february 2011. prior to that, mr. hall served as president eastern group from october 2006 to february 2011. mr. hall had previously served the company as president north florida division from april 2003 until october 2006, as president of the east florida division from january 1999 until april 2003, as a market president in the east florida division from january 1998 until december 1998, as president of the south florida division from february 1996 until december 1997, and as president of the southwest florida division from october 1994 until february 1996, and in various other capacities since 1987. samuel n. hazen was appointed chief operating officer in january 2015. prior to that time, he served as president operations of the company from february 2011 to january 2015. mr. hazen served as president western group from july 2001 to february 2011 and as chief financial officer western group of the company from august 1995 to july 2001. mr. hazen served as chief financial officer north texas division 31 table of contents of the company from february 1994 to july 1995. prior to that time, mr. hazen served in various hospital and regional chief financial officer positions with humana inc. and galen health care, inc. a. bruce moore, jr. was appointed president service line and operations integration in february 2011. prior to that, mr. moore had served as president outpatient services group since january 2006. mr. moore served as senior vice president and as chief operating officer outpatient services group from july 2004 to january 2006 and as senior vice president operations administration from july 1999 until july 2004. mr. moore served as vice president operations administration of the company from september 1997 to july 1999, as vice president benefits from october 1996 to september 1997, and as vice president compensation from march 1995 until october 1996. sandra l. morgan was appointed senior vice president provider relations in january 2015. prior to that time, she served as vice president national sales from april 2008 to january 2015. from 2000 to 2008, ms. morgan served in various capacities with pfizer inc., including vice president of sales for the customer business unit from 2005 to 2008. p. martin paslick was appointed senior vice president and chief information officer of the company in june 2012. prior to that time, he served as vice president and chief operating officer of information technology &amp; services from march 2010 to may 2012 and vice president information technology &amp; services field operations from september 2006 to february 2010. from january 1998 to september 2006, he served in various vice president roles in the company information technology &amp; services department. mr. paslick joined the company in 1985. dr. jonathan b. perlin was appointed president clinical services group and chief medical officer in november 2007. dr. perlin had served as chief medical officer and senior vice president quality of the company from august 2006 to november 2007. prior to joining the company, dr. perlin served as under secretary for health in the u.s. department of veterans affairs since april 2004. dr. perlin joined the veterans health administration in november 1999 where he served in various capacities, including as deputy under secretary for health from july 2002 to april 2004, and as chief quality and performance officer from november 1999 to september 2002. he also served as senior advisor to the acting secretary of the u.s. department of veterans affairs from july 2014 to september 2014 and is the immediate past chairman for the american hospital association. william b. rutherford has served as the company executive vice president and chief financial officer since january 2014. mr. rutherford previously served as chief operating officer of the company clinical and physician services group from january 2011 to january 2014 and chief financial officer of the company outpatient services group from november 2008 to january 2011. prior to that time, mr. rutherford was employed by summit consulting group of tennessee from july 2007 to november 2008 and was chief operating officer of psychiatric solutions, inc. from march 2006 to june 2007. mr. rutherford also previously served in various positions with the company from 1986 to 2005, including chief financial officer of what was then the company eastern group, director of internal audit and director of operations support. joseph a. sowell, iii was appointed as senior vice president and chief development officer of the company in december 2009. from 1987 to 1996 and again from 1999 to 2009, mr. sowell was a partner at the law firm of waller lansden dortch &amp; davis where he specialized in the areas of health care law, mergers and acquisitions, joint ventures, private equity financing, tax law and general corporate law. he also co-managed the firm corporate and commercial transactions practice. from 1996 to 1999, mr. sowell served as the head of development, and later as the chief operating officer of arcon healthcare. joseph n. steakley has served as senior vice president internal audit services of the company since july 1999. mr. steakley served as vice president internal audit services from november 1997 to july 1999. from october 1989 until october 1997, mr. steakley was a partner with ernst &amp; young llp. 32 table of contents john m. steele has served as senior vice president human resources of the company since november 2003. mr. steele served as vice president compensation and recruitment of the company from november 1997 to october 2003. from march 1995 to november 1997, mr. steele served as assistant vice president recruitment. donald w. stinnett has served as senior vice president and controller since december 2008. mr. stinnett served as chief financial officer eastern group from october 2005 to december 2008 and chief financial officer of the far west division from july 1999 to october 2005. mr. stinnett served as chief financial officer and vice president of finance of franciscan health system of the ohio valley from 1995 until 1999, and served in various capacities with franciscan health system of cincinnati and providence hospital in cincinnati prior to that time. juan vallarino was appointed senior vice president employer and payer engagement (former senior vice president strategic pricing and analytics) in february 2011. from october 2006 to february 2011, mr. vallarino served as vice president strategic pricing and analytics. prior to that, mr. vallarino served as vice president of managed care for the western group of the company from january 1998 to october 2006. robert a. waterman has served as senior vice president and general counsel of the company since november 1997 and chief labor relations officer since march 2009. mr. waterman served as a partner in the law firm of latham &amp; watkins from september 1993 to october 1997; he was chair of the firm health care group during 1997. alan r. yuspeh has served as senior vice president and chief ethics and compliance officer of the company since may 2007. from october 1997 to may 2007, mr. yuspeh served as senior vice president ethics, compliance and corporate responsibility of the company. from september 1991 until october 1997, mr. yuspeh was a partner with the law firm of howrey &amp; simon. as a part of his law practice, mr. yuspeh served from 1987 to 1997 as coordinator of the defense industry initiative on business ethics and conduct. item 1a. risk factors if any of the events discussed in the following risk factors were to occur, our business, financial position, results of operations, cash flows or prospects could be materially, adversely affected. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known, or currently deemed immaterial, may also constrain our business and operations. our substantial leverage could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry, expose us to interest rate risk to the extent of our variable rate debt and prevent us from meeting our obligations. we are highly leveraged. as of december 31, 2015, our total indebtedness was $30.488 billion. as of december 31, 2015, we had availability of $1.959 billion under our senior secured revolving credit facility and $220 million under our asset-based revolving credit facility, after giving effect to letters of credit and borrowing base limitations. our high degree of leverage could have important consequences, including: increasing our vulnerability to downturns or adverse changes in general economic, industry or competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulations; requiring a substantial portion of cash flows from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, therefore reducing our ability to use our cash flows to fund our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities; exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our unhedged borrowings are at variable rates of interest; limiting our ability to make strategic acquisitions or causing us to make nonstrategic divestitures; 33 table of contents limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, share repurchases, product or service line development, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who are less highly leveraged. we and our subsidiaries have the ability to incur additional indebtedness in the future, subject to the restrictions contained in our senior secured credit facilities and the indentures governing our outstanding notes. if new indebtedness is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could intensify. we may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may not be able to refinance our indebtedness on favorable terms. if we are unable to do so, we may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. we cannot assure you we will maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. in addition, we conduct our operations through our subsidiaries. accordingly, repayment of our indebtedness is dependent on the generation of cash flows by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise. our subsidiaries may not be able to, or may not be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness. each subsidiary is a distinct legal entity, and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. we may find it necessary or prudent to refinance our outstanding indebtedness, the terms of which may not be favorable to us. our ability to refinance our indebtedness on favorable terms, or at all, is directly affected by the then current global economic and financial conditions. in addition, our ability to incur secured indebtedness (which would generally enable us to achieve better pricing than the incurrence of unsecured indebtedness) depends in part on the value of our assets, which depends, in turn, on the strength of our cash flows and results of operations, and on economic and market conditions and other factors. if our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations or we are unable to refinance our indebtedness, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure our indebtedness. these alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. if our operating results and available cash are insufficient to meet our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. we may not be able to consummate those dispositions, or the proceeds from the dispositions may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. our debt agreements contain restrictions that limit our flexibility in operating our business. our senior secured credit facilities and, to a lesser extent, the indentures governing our outstanding notes contain various covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions. these covenants limit our and certain of our subsidiaries ability to, among other things: incur additional indebtedness or issue certain preferred shares; pay dividends on, repurchase or make distributions in respect of our capital stock or make other restricted payments; 34 table of contents make certain investments; sell or transfer assets; create liens; consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and enter into certain transactions with our affiliates. under our asset-based revolving credit facility, when (and for as long as) the combined availability under our asset-based revolving credit facility and our senior secured revolving credit facility is less than a specified amount for a certain period of time or, if a payment or bankruptcy event of default has occurred and is continuing, funds deposited into any of our depository accounts will be transferred on a daily basis into a blocked account with the administrative agent and applied to prepay loans under the asset-based revolving credit facility and to collateralize letters of credit issued thereunder. under our senior secured credit facilities, we are required to satisfy and maintain specified financial ratios. our ability to meet those financial ratios can be affected by events beyond our control, and there can be no assurance we will continue to meet those ratios. a breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under both the cash flow credit facility and the asset-based revolving credit facility. upon the occurrence of an event of default under these senior secured credit facilities, the lenders thereunder could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the senior secured credit facilities to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit, which would also result in an event of default under a significant portion of our outstanding indebtedness. if we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under the senior secured credit facilities could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure such indebtedness. we have pledged a significant portion of our assets under our senior secured credit facilities and that collateral is also pledged as collateral under our first lien notes. if any of the lenders under the senior secured credit facilities accelerate the repayment of borrowings, there can be no assurance there will be sufficient assets to repay the senior secured credit facilities, the first lien notes and our other indebtedness. our hospitals face competition for patients from other hospitals and health care providers. the health care business is highly competitive, and competition among hospitals and other health care providers for patients has intensified in recent years. generally, other hospitals in the communities we serve provide services similar to those offered by our hospitals. in addition, cms publicizes on its hospital compare website performance data related to quality measures and data on patient satisfaction surveys hospitals submit in connection with their medicare reimbursement. federal law provides for the future expansion of the number of quality measures that must be reported. additional quality measures and future trends toward clinical transparency may have an unanticipated impact on our competitive position and patient volumes. further, every hospital must establish and update annually a public listing of the hospital standard charges for items and services. if any of our hospitals achieve poor results (or results that are lower than our competitors) on these quality measures or on patient satisfaction surveys or if our standard charges are higher than our competitors, our patient volumes could decline. in addition, the number of freestanding specialty hospitals, surgery centers, emergency departments, urgent care centers and diagnostic and imaging centers in the geographic areas in which we operate has increased significantly. as a result, most of our hospitals operate in a highly competitive environment. some of the facilities that compete with our hospitals are physician-owned or are owned by governmental agencies or not-for-profit corporations supported by endowments, charitable contributions and/or tax revenues and can finance capital expenditures and operations on a tax-exempt basis. our hospitals face competition from competitors that are implementing physician alignment strategies, such as employing physicians, acquiring physician practice groups and participating in acos or other clinical integration models. our hospitals compete with specialty hospitals and with both our own and unaffiliated freestanding surgery centers for market share in certain high margin services and for quality physicians and personnel. if ascs are better able to compete in this environment 35 table of contents than our hospitals, our hospitals may experience a decline in patient volume, and we may experience a decrease in margin, even if those patients use our ascs. in states that do not require a con or other type of approval for the purchase, construction or expansion of health care facilities or services, competition in the form of new services, facilities and capital spending is more prevalent. further, if our competitors are better able to attract patients, make capital expenditures and maintain modern and technologically upgraded facilities and equipment, recruit physicians, expand services or obtain favorable managed care contracts at their facilities than our hospitals and ascs, we may experience an overall decline in patient volume. see item 1, business competition. a deterioration in the collectability of uninsured and patient due accounts could adversely affect our results of operations. the primary collection risks of our accounts receivable relate to the uninsured patient accounts and patient accounts for which the primary insurance carrier has paid the amounts covered by the applicable agreement, but patient responsibility amounts (exclusions, deductibles and copayments) remain outstanding. the provision for doubtful accounts relates primarily to amounts due directly from patients. medicare reimburses hospitals for 65% of eligible medicare bad debts. to be eligible for reimbursement, the amounts claimed must meet certain criteria, including that the debt is related to unpaid deductible or coinsurance amounts and that the hospital first attempted to collect the fees from the medicare beneficiary. the amount of the provision for doubtful accounts is based upon management assessment of historical write-offs and expected net collections, business and economic conditions, trends in federal and state governmental and private employer health care coverage, the rate of growth in uninsured patient admissions and other collection indicators. at december 31, 2015, our allowance for doubtful accounts represented approximately 94.5% of the $5.636 billion patient due accounts receivable balance. the sum of the provision for doubtful accounts, uninsured discounts and charity care increased from $15.565 billion for 2013 to $15.943 billion for 2014 and to $18.287 billion for 2015. any increase in the amount or deterioration in the collectability of uninsured accounts receivable will adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations. our facilities may experience growth in bad debts, uninsured discounts and charity care as a result of a number of factors, including conditions impacting the overall economy and high unemployment. the health reform law contains provisions that seek to decrease, over time, the number of uninsured individuals through reforms, most of which became effective january 1, 2014, but it is difficult to predict the full impact of the health reform law. for example, a number of states have opted out of the medicaid expansion. further, certain provisions have been delayed. for example, the employer mandate, which requires firms with 50 or more full-time employees to offer health insurance or pay fines, was not fully implemented until january 1, 2016. even after full implementation of the health reform law, we may continue to experience bad debts and have to provide uninsured discounts and charity care for individuals residing in states that choose not to implement the medicaid expansion, for undocumented aliens who are not permitted to enroll in an exchange or government health care programs and for certain others who may not have insurance coverage. further, implementation of the health reform law could result in some patients terminating their current insurance plans in favor of lower cost medicaid plans or other insurance coverage with lower reimbursement levels. we may also be adversely affected by the growth in patient responsibility accounts as a result of increases in the adoption of plan structures that shift greater responsibility for care to individuals through greater exclusions and copayment and deductible amounts. changes in government health care programs may adversely affect our revenues. a significant portion of our patient volume is derived from government health care programs, principally medicare and medicaid. specifically, we derived 42.1% of our revenues from the medicare and medicaid programs in 2015. changes in government health care programs may reduce the reimbursement we receive and could adversely affect our business and results of operations. 36 table of contents in recent years, legislative and regulatory changes have resulted in limitations on and, in some cases, reductions in levels of payments to health care providers for certain services under the medicare program. the bca requires automatic spending reductions of $1.2 trillion for federal fiscal years 2013 through 2021, minus any deficit reductions enacted by congress and debt service costs. however, the percentage reduction for medicare may not be more than 2% for a fiscal year, with a uniform percentage reduction across all medicare programs. these reductions have been extended by congress through 2025. we are unable to predict what other deficit reduction initiatives may be proposed by congress or whether congress will attempt to suspend or restructure the automatic budget cuts. these reductions are in addition to reductions mandated by the health reform law, which provides for material reductions in the growth of medicare program spending, including reductions in medicare market basket updates and medicare dsh funding. further, from time to time, cms revises the reimbursement systems used to reimburse health care providers, including changes to the ms-drg system and other payment systems, which may result in reduced medicare payments. for example, cms has established what is referred to as the two midnight rule. under the rule, for admissions on or after october 1, 2013, services provided to medicare beneficiaries are only payable as inpatient hospital services when there is a reasonable expectation that the hospital care is medically necessary and will be required across two midnights, absent unusual circumstances. stays expected to need fewer than two midnights of hospital care will be subject to medical review on a case-by-case basis. qios are handling the reviews of short inpatient stays, and enforcement through rac audits potentially will begin in 2016. because most states must operate with balanced budgets and because the medicaid program is often a state largest program, some states have enacted or may consider enacting legislation designed to reduce their medicaid expenditures. further, many states have also adopted, or are considering, legislation designed to reduce coverage, enroll medicaid recipients in managed care programs and/or impose additional taxes on hospitals to help finance or expand the states medicaid systems. the economic downturn increased the budgetary pressures on many states, and these budgetary pressures have resulted, and likely may continue to result, in decreased spending, or decreased spending growth, for medicaid programs and chip in many states. some states that provide medicaid supplemental payments are reviewing these programs or have filed waiver requests with cms to replace these programs, and cms has performed and continues to perform compliance reviews of some states programs, which could result in medicaid supplemental payments being reduced or eliminated. currently, texas operates a medicaid waiver program pursuant to a waiver that expires on september 30, 2016. texas has submitted an application to extend its waiver program, but cms has not yet issued a decision. we cannot predict whether the texas medicaid waiver program will be extended, continue in its current form or guarantee that revenues recognized from the program will not decrease. the health reform law made changes to the medicaid program and will likely cause additional changes in the future. for example, the health reform law provides for material reductions to medicaid dsh funding. the health reform law may require further state legislative and regulatory changes in order for states to comply with federal mandates and to participate in grants and other incentive opportunities. a number of states have opted out of the medicaid expansion provisions of the health reform law, but these states could choose to implement the expansion at a later date. it is unclear how many states will ultimately implement the medicaid expansion provisions of the law. in some cases, commercial third-party payers rely on all or portions of medicare payment systems to determine payment rates. changes to government health care programs that reduce payments under these programs may negatively impact payments from commercial third-party payers. current or future health care reform and deficit reduction efforts, changes in laws or regulations regarding government health care programs, other changes in the administration of government health care programs and changes by commercial third-party payers in response to health care reform and other changes to government health care programs could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. 37 table of contents we are unable to predict the ultimate impact of the health reform law, which represents a significant change to the health care industry. the health reform law changes how health care services are covered, delivered, and reimbursed through expanded coverage of uninsured individuals, reduced growth in medicare program spending, reductions in medicare and medicaid dsh payments and the establishment and expansion of programs that tie reimbursement to quality and integration. in addition, the law reforms certain aspects of health insurance, contains provisions intended to strengthen fraud and abuse enforcement and establishes acos and bundled payment pilot programs. the expansion of health insurance coverage under the health reform law may result in an increase in the number of patients using our facilities who have either private or public program coverage, and our facilities may benefit from health reform law initiatives that create possible sources of additional revenue. however, any positive effects of the health reform law could be offset and the company could be significantly impacted by reductions to the medicare and medicaid programs. although the health reform law has had a net positive effect on the company to date, before considering the impact of medicare reductions that began in 2010, substantial uncertainty remains regarding the ongoing net effect of the health reform law on the company because the resolution of a number of material factors remains unclear, including the following: how many states will ultimately implement the medicaid expansion provisions and under what terms; the potential for and impact of further delays in or complications related to implementation of the health reform law (for example, there were significant problems during the initial implementation of the exchanges that negatively impacted the ability of individuals to purchase health insurance); the possibility of enactment of additional federal or state health care reforms and possible changes to the health reform law; the success and long-term viability of the exchanges, which may be impacted by whether a sufficient number of payers participate in the exchanges; our ability to participate in health insurance plans offered through the exchanges and the terms of our participation as well as treatment of out of network claims; how many previously uninsured individuals will obtain coverage as a result of the health reform law; what percentage of the newly insured patients will be covered under the medicaid program and what percentage will be covered by private health insurers; the extent to which states will enroll new medicaid participants in managed care programs; the pace at which insurance coverage expands, including the pace of different types of coverage expansion; the change, if any, in the volume of inpatient and outpatient hospital services that are sought by and provided to previously uninsured individuals; the rate paid to hospitals by private payers for newly covered individuals and individuals with existing coverage including those covered through health insurance plans offered through the exchanges, some of whom may have been previously covered by employer-sponsored plans; the rate paid by state governments and private payers pursuant to contracts with the state under the medicaid program for newly covered individuals; the effect of the value-based purchasing provisions of the health reform law on our hospitals revenues and the effects of other quality programs; the percentage of individuals in the exchanges who select restricted network plans, since health insurers offering those kinds of products have traditionally sought to pay lower rates to hospitals; the amount of overall revenues the company will generate from medicare and medicaid business when the reductions are implemented (42.1% of our revenues in 2015 were from medicare and medicaid); 38 table of contents the size of the health reform law annual productivity adjustment to the market basket; the implementation and amounts of medicare dsh reductions and the allocation of the medicaid dsh reductions to our hospitals; the effect of aco efforts to coordinate care and reduce costs, including the possibility that they will decrease reimbursement; the scope and nature of potential changes to medicare reimbursement methods, such as an emphasis on bundling payments or coordination of care programs; whether the company revenues from medicaid supplemental programs developed through a federally approved waiver program will be adversely affected because there may be reductions in available state and local government funding for the programs or the programs may be discontinued or modified; and the impact of court challenges, the 2016 federal election and efforts to repeal or revise the health reform law. if our volume of patients with commercial insurance declines or we are unable to retain and negotiate favorable contracts with nongovernment payers, including managed care plans, our revenues may be reduced. nongovernment payers, including hmos, ppos and other managed care plans, typically reimburse health care providers at a higher rate than medicare, medicaid or other government health care programs. reimbursement rates are set forth by contract when our facilities are in-network, and payers utilize plan structures to encourage or require the use of in-network providers. revenues derived from nongovernment payers (domestic only) accounted for 55.2%, 54.4% and 54.6% of our revenues for 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. as a result, our ability to maintain or increase patient volumes covered by nongovernment payers and to maintain and obtain favorable contracts with nongovernment payers significantly affects the revenues and operating results of our facilities. nongovernment payers, including managed care payers, continue to demand discounted fee structures, and the trend toward consolidation among nongovernment payers tends to increase their bargaining power over fee structures. as various provisions of the health reform law are implemented, including the exchanges, nongovernment payers increasingly may demand reduced fees and utilize plan structures such as narrow networks and tiered networks that limit beneficiary provider choices or impose significantly higher cost sharing obligations when care is obtained from providers in a disfavored tier. other health care providers may impact our ability to enter into managed care contracts or negotiate increases in our reimbursement and other favorable terms and conditions. for example, some of our competitors may negotiate exclusivity provisions with managed care plans or otherwise restrict the ability of managed care companies to contract with us. our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to retain and renew our managed care contracts and enter into new managed care contracts on terms favorable to us. it is not clear what impact, if any, the increased obligations on managed care payers and other payers imposed by the health reform law will have on our ability to negotiate reimbursement increases and participate in plan networks on favorable terms. if we are unable to retain and negotiate favorable contracts with managed care plans or experience reductions in payment increases or amounts received from nongovernment payers, our revenues may be reduced. our performance depends on our ability to recruit and retain quality physicians. the success of our hospitals depends in part on the number and quality of the physicians on the medical staffs of our hospitals, the admitting and utilization practices of those physicians, maintaining good relations with those physicians and controlling costs related to the employment of physicians. although we employ some physicians, physicians are often not employees of the hospitals at which they practice and, in many of the markets we serve, most physicians have admitting privileges at other hospitals in addition to our hospitals. such physicians may terminate their affiliation with our hospitals at any time. if we are unable to provide adequate support personnel or technologically advanced equipment and hospital facilities that meet the needs of those 39 table of contents physicians and their patients, they may be discouraged from referring patients to our facilities, admissions may decrease and our operating performance may decline. our hospitals face competition for staffing, which may increase labor costs and reduce profitability. our operations are dependent on the efforts, abilities and experience of our management and medical support personnel, such as nurses, pharmacists and lab technicians, as well as our physicians. we compete with other health care providers in recruiting and retaining qualified management and support personnel responsible for the daily operations of each of our hospitals, including nurses and other nonphysician health care professionals. in some markets, the availability of nurses and other medical support personnel has been a significant operating issue to health care providers. we may be required to continue to enhance wages and benefits to recruit and retain nurses and other medical support personnel or to hire more expensive temporary or contract personnel. as a result, our labor costs could increase. we also depend on the available labor pool of semi-skilled and unskilled employees in each of the markets in which we operate. certain proposed changes in federal labor laws and the nlrb modification of its election procedures could increase the likelihood of employee unionization attempts. to the extent a significant portion of our employee base unionizes, it is possible our labor costs could increase materially. when negotiating collective bargaining agreements with unions, whether such agreements are renewals or first contracts, there is the possibility that strikes could occur during the negotiation process, and our continued operation during any strikes could increase our labor costs. in addition, the states in which we operate could adopt mandatory nurse-staffing ratios or could reduce mandatory nurse staffing ratios already in place. state-mandated nurse-staffing ratios could significantly affect labor costs and have an adverse impact on revenues if we are required to limit admissions in order to meet the required ratios. if our labor costs increase, we may not be able to raise rates to offset these increased costs. because a significant percentage of our revenues consists of fixed, prospective payments, our ability to pass along increased labor costs is constrained. our failure to recruit and retain qualified management, nurses and other medical support personnel, or to control labor costs, could have a material, adverse effect on our results of operations. if we fail to comply with extensive laws and government regulations, we could suffer penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations. the health care industry is required to comply with extensive and complex laws and regulations at the federal, state and local government levels relating to, among other things: billing and coding for services and properly handling overpayments; appropriateness and classification of level of care provided, including proper classification of inpatient admissions, observation services and outpatient care; relationships with physicians and other referral sources and referral recipients; necessity and adequacy of medical care; quality of medical equipment and services; qualifications of medical and support personnel; confidentiality, maintenance, data breach, identity theft and security issues associated with health-related and personal information and medical records; screening, stabilization and transfer of individuals who have emergency medical conditions; licensure, certification and enrollment with government programs; hospital rate or budget review; debt collection; preparing and filing of cost reports; operating policies and procedures; 40 table of contents activities regarding competitors; addition of facilities and services; and environmental protection. among these laws are the federal anti-kickback statute, the federal stark law, the fca and similar state laws. we have a variety of financial relationships with physicians and others who either refer or influence the referral of patients to our hospitals, other health care facilities and employed physicians or who are the recipients of referrals, and these laws govern those relationships. the oig has enacted safe harbor regulations that outline practices deemed protected from prosecution under the anti-kickback statute. while we endeavor to comply with the applicable safe harbors, certain of our current arrangements, including joint ventures and financial relationships with physicians and other referral sources and persons and entities to which we refer patients, do not qualify for safe harbor protection. failure to qualify for a safe harbor does not mean the arrangement necessarily violates the anti-kickback statute but may subject the arrangement to greater scrutiny. however, we cannot offer assurance that practices outside of a safe harbor will not be found to violate the anti-kickback statute. allegations of violations of the anti-kickback statute may be brought under the federal civil monetary penalty law, which requires a lower burden of proof than other fraud and abuse laws, including the anti-kickback statute. our financial relationships with referring physicians and their immediate family members must comply with the stark law by meeting an exception. we attempt to structure our relationships to meet an exception to the stark law, but the regulations implementing the exceptions are detailed and complex, and we cannot provide assurance that every relationship complies fully with the stark law. unlike the anti-kickback statute, failure to meet an exception under the stark law results in a violation of the stark law, even if such violation is technical in nature. additionally, if we violate the anti-kickback statute or stark law, or if we improperly bill for our services, we may be found to violate the fca, either under a suit brought by the government or by a private person under a qui tam , or whistleblower, suit. see item 1, business regulation and other factors. we also operate health care facilities in the united kingdom and have operations and commercial relationships with companies in other foreign jurisdictions and, as a result, are subject to certain u.s. and foreign laws applicable to businesses generally, including anti-corruption laws. the foreign corrupt practices act regulates u.s. companies in their dealings with foreign officials, prohibiting bribes and similar practices, and requires that they maintain records that fairly and accurately reflect transactions and appropriate internal accounting controls. in addition, the united kingdom bribery act has wide jurisdiction over certain activities that affect the united kingdom. if we fail to comply with these or other applicable laws and regulations, we could be subject to liabilities, including civil penalties, the loss of our licenses to operate one or more facilities, exclusion of one or more facilities from participation in the medicare, medicaid and other federal and state health care programs and criminal penalties. we do not always have the benefit of significant regulatory or judicial interpretation of these laws and regulations. in the future, different interpretations or enforcement of, or amendment to, these or other laws and regulations could subject our current or past practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality or could require us to make changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel, services, capital expenditure programs and operating expenses. a determination that we have violated these or other laws, or the public announcement that we are being investigated for possible violations of these or other laws, could have a material, adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects, and our business reputation could suffer significantly. in addition, other legislation or regulations at the federal or state level may be adopted that adversely affect our business. 41 table of contents we have been and could become the subject of governmental investigations, claims and litigation. health care companies are subject to numerous investigations by various governmental agencies. further, under the fca, private parties have the right to bring qui tam , or whistleblower, suits against companies that submit false claims for payments to, or improperly retain overpayments from, the government. some states have adopted similar state whistleblower and false claims provisions. certain of our individual facilities have received, and other facilities may receive, government inquiries from, and may be subject to investigation by, federal and state agencies. depending on whether the underlying conduct in these or future inquiries or investigations could be considered systemic, their resolution could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. governmental agencies and their agents, such as the macs, fiscal intermediaries and carriers, as well as the oig, cms and state medicaid programs, conduct audits of our health care operations. private payers may conduct similar post-payment audits, and we also perform internal audits and monitoring. depending on the nature of the conduct found in such audits and whether the underlying conduct could be considered systemic, the resolution of these audits could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. cms contracts with racs on a contingency fee basis to conduct post-payment reviews to detect and correct improper payments in the fee-for-service medicare program. the health reform law expands the rac program scope to include managed medicare plans and medicaid claims. rac denials are appealable; however, there are currently significant delays in the assignment of new medicare appeals to administrative law judges, which negatively impacts our ability to appeal rac payment denials. in 2014, hhs offered to pay hospitals 68% of the net allowable amount associated with inpatient status claims denials in exchange for the withdrawal of all medical claims appealed. we accepted the settlement offer and executed an administrative agreement with hhs. in addition, cms employs mics to perform post-payment audits of medicaid claims and identify overpayments. the health reform law increases federal funding for the mic program. in addition to racs and mics, the state medicaid agencies and other contractors have increased their review activities. should we be found out of compliance with any of these laws, regulations or programs, depending on the nature of the findings, our business, our financial position and our results of operations could be negatively impacted. changes to physician utilization practices and treatment methodologies, governmental or managed care controls designed to reduce inpatient services or surgical procedures and other factors outside our control that impact demand for medical services may reduce our revenues. controls imposed by medicare, managed medicare, medicaid, managed medicaid and commercial third-party payers designed to reduce admissions, intensity of services, surgical volumes and lengths of stay, in some instances referred to as utilization review, have affected and are expected to continue to affect our facilities. utilization review entails the review of the admission and course of treatment of a patient by health plans. the medicare program also issues national or local coverage determinations that restrict the circumstances under which medicare pays for certain services. inpatient utilization, average lengths of stay and occupancy rates continue to be negatively affected by payer-required preadmission authorization, coverage restrictions and utilization review and by payer pressure to maximize outpatient and alternative health care delivery services for less acutely ill patients. efforts to impose more stringent cost controls are expected to continue. for example, the health reform law expanded the use of prepayment review by medicare contractors by eliminating statutory restrictions on their use. additionally, trends in physician treatment protocols and managed care health plan design, such as plans that shift increased costs and accountability for care to patients, could reduce our surgical volumes and admissions in favor of lower intensity and lower cost treatment methodologies. 42 table of contents volume, admission and case-mix trends may be impacted by other factors beyond our control, such as changes in volume of certain high acuity services, variations in the prevalence and severity of outbreaks of influenza and other illnesses and medical conditions, seasonal and severe weather conditions, changes in treatment regimens and medical technology and other advances. these factors may reduce the demand for services we offer and decrease the reimbursement that we receive. significant limits on the scope of services reimbursed, cost controls, changes to physician utilization practices, treatment methodologies, reimbursement rates and fees and other factors beyond our control could have a material, adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. our overall business results may suffer during periods of general economic weakness. budget deficits at federal, state and local government entities have had a negative impact on spending, and may continue to negatively impact spending, for health and human service programs, including medicare, medicaid and similar programs, which represent significant payer sources for our hospitals. other risks we face during periods of economic weakness and high unemployment include potential declines in the population covered under managed care agreements, patient decisions to postpone or cancel elective and nonemergency health care procedures (including delaying surgical procedures), potential increases in the uninsured and underinsured populations and further difficulties in collecting patient copayment and deductible receivables. the industry trend toward value-based purchasing may negatively impact our revenues. there is a trend in the health care industry toward value-based purchasing of health care services. these value-based purchasing programs include both public reporting of quality data and preventable adverse events tied to the quality and efficiency of care provided by facilities. governmental programs including medicare currently require hospitals to report certain quality data to receive full reimbursement updates. in addition, medicare does not reimburse for care related to certain preventable adverse events (also called never events ). the health reform law also prohibits the use of federal funds under the medicaid program to reimburse providers for medical assistance provided to treat hacs. as of federal fiscal year 2015, the 25% of hospitals with the worst risk-adjusted hac rates in the designated performance period receive a 1% reduction in their inpatient pps medicare payments. hospitals with excess readmission rates for conditions designated by hhs will receive a reduction in their inpatient pps operating medicare payments for all medicare inpatient discharges, not just discharges relating to the conditions subject to the excess readmission standard. the reduction in payments to hospitals with excess readmissions is capped at 3% for federal fiscal year 2015 and subsequent years. as required by the health reform law, hhs has implemented a value-based purchasing program for inpatient hospital services that reduces inpatient hospital payments for all discharges by 1.75% in federal fiscal year 2016. this percentage increases to 2% in federal fiscal year 2017 and for subsequent years. hhs pools the amount collected from these reductions to fund payments to reward hospitals that meet or exceed certain quality performance standards established by hhs. hhs estimates that it will distribute $1.5 billion to hospitals in federal fiscal year 2016 based on their achievement (relative to other hospitals) and improvement (relative to the hospital own past performance). hospitals that meet or exceed the quality performance standards will receive greater reimbursement under the value-based purchasing program than they would have otherwise. beginning in april 2016, hospitals located in markets selected by cms will be required to participate in the cjr model, a five-year mandatory bundled payment initiative focused on knee and hip replacements. participating hospitals will be evaluated against quality standards and medicare spending targets established by cms for each episode of care. depending on whether overall cms spending per episode exceeds or falls below the target and whether quality standards are met, hospitals may receive supplemental medicare payments or owe repayments to cms. mandatory participation in demonstration projects, particularly demonstrations with the potential to affect payment, may negatively impact our results of operations. 43 table of contents many large commercial payers currently require hospitals to report quality data, and several commercial payers do not reimburse hospitals for certain preventable adverse events. further, we have implemented a policy pursuant to which we do not bill patients or third-party payers for fees or expenses incurred due to certain preventable adverse events. we expect value-based purchasing programs, including programs that condition reimbursement on patient outcome measures, to become more common and to involve a higher percentage of reimbursement amounts. cms has announced aggressive goals for adopting alternative payment models, which may include additional mandatory bundled or other alternative payment programs, and commercial insurers may also transition away from fee-for-service payment models. we are unable at this time to predict our future reductions and payments under these programs or how this trend will affect our results of operations, but it could negatively impact our revenues. our operations could be impaired by a failure of our information systems. the performance of our information systems is critical to our business operations. in addition to our shared services initiatives, our information systems are essential to a number of critical areas of our operations, including: accounting and financial reporting; billing and collecting accounts; coding and compliance; clinical systems; medical records and document storage; inventory management; negotiating, pricing and administering managed care contracts and supply contracts; and monitoring quality of care and collecting data on quality measures necessary for full medicare payment updates. information systems may be vulnerable to damage from a variety of sources, including telecommunications or network failures, human acts and natural disasters. we have taken precautionary measures to prevent unanticipated problems that could affect our information systems. nevertheless, we may experience system failures. the occurrence of any system failure could result in interruptions, delays, the loss or corruption of data and cessations or interruptions in the availability of systems, all of which could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations and harm our business reputation. a cybersecurity incident could result in a loss of confidential data, give rise to remediation and other expenses, expose us to liability under hipaa, consumer protection laws, or other common law theories, subject us to litigation and federal and state governmental inquiries, damage our reputation, and otherwise be disruptive to our business. we collect and store on our networks sensitive information, including intellectual property, proprietary business information and personally identifiable information of our patients and employees. in addition, we have made significant investments in technology to adopt and utilize ehr and to become meaningful users of health information technology. the secure maintenance of this information is critical to our business operations. we have implemented multiple layers of security measures to protect the confidentiality, integrity and availability of this data through technology, processes, and our people. we utilize current security technologies, and our defenses are monitored and routinely tested internally and by external parties. despite these efforts, threats from malicious persons and groups, new vulnerabilities and advanced new attacks against information systems create risk of cybersecurity incidents. there can be no assurance that we will not be subject to cybersecurity incidents 44 table of contents that bypass our security measures, result in loss of personal health information or other data subject to privacy laws or disrupt our information systems or business. as a result, cybersecurity and the continued development and enhancement of our controls, processes and practices designed to protect our information systems from attack, damage or unauthorized access remain a priority for us. as cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any cybersecurity vulnerabilities. the occurrence of any of these events could result in (i) business interruptions and delays; (ii) the loss, misappropriation, corruption or unauthorized access of data; (iii) litigation and potential liability under privacy, security and consumer protection laws or other applicable laws; and (iv) federal and state governmental inquiries, any of which could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations and harm our business reputation. if we fail to continue to demonstrate meaningful use of certified electronic health record systems, or if the transition to the icd-10 coding system affects our billing or collections, our operations could be adversely affected. as of 2015, eligible hospitals and eligible professionals that have failed to demonstrate meaningful use of certified ehr technology in an applicable prior reporting period are subject to reduced payments from medicare. failure to continue to demonstrate meaningful use of certified ehr technology could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. health plans and providers, including our hospitals, were required to transition by october 1, 2015 to the new icd-10 coding system, which greatly expands the number and detail of billing codes used for inpatient claims. the transition to the more detailed icd-10 coding system could result in decreased reimbursement if the use of icd-10 codes results in conditions being reclassified to ms-drgs or commercial payer payment groupings with lower levels of reimbursement than assigned under the previous system. the emergence and effects related to a pandemic, epidemic or outbreak of an infectious disease could adversely affect our operations. if a pandemic, epidemic, outbreak of an infectious disease or other public health crisis were to occur in an area in which we operate, our operations could be adversely affected. such a crisis could diminish the public trust in health care facilities, especially hospitals that fail to accurately or timely diagnose, or are treating (or have treated) patients affected by infectious diseases. if any of our facilities were involved, or perceived as being involved, in treating patients from such an infectious disease, patients might cancel elective procedures or fail to seek needed care at our facilities. further, a pandemic, epidemic or outbreak might adversely affect our operations by causing a temporary shutdown or diversion of patients, by disrupting or delaying production and delivery of materials and products in the supply chain or by causing staffing shortages in our facilities. we have disaster plans in place and operate pursuant to infectious disease protocols, but the potential emergence of a pandemic, epidemic or outbreak is difficult to predict and could adversely affect our operations. state efforts to regulate the construction or expansion of health care facilities could impair our ability to operate and expand our operations. some states, particularly in the eastern part of the country, require health care providers to obtain prior approval, often known as a con, for the purchase, construction or expansion of health care facilities, to make certain capital expenditures or to make changes in services or bed capacity. in giving approval, these states consider the need for additional or expanded health care facilities or services. we currently operate health care facilities in a number of states with con laws or that require other types of approvals for the establishment or expansion of certain facility types or services. the failure to obtain any requested con or other required approval could impair our ability to operate or expand operations. any such failure could, in turn, adversely affect our ability to attract patients and physicians to our facilities and grow our revenues, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. 45 table of contents we may encounter difficulty acquiring hospitals and other health care businesses, encounter challenges integrating the operations of acquired hospitals and other health care businesses and become liable for unknown or contingent liabilities as a result of acquisitions. a component of our business strategy is acquiring hospitals and other health care businesses. we may encounter difficulty acquiring new facilities or other businesses as a result of competition from other purchasers that may be willing to pay purchase prices that are higher than we believe are reasonable. some states require cons in order to acquire a hospital or other facility or to expand facilities or services. in addition, the acquisition of health care facilities often involves licensure approvals or reviews and complex change of ownership processes for medicare and other payers. further, many states have laws that restrict the conversion or sale of not-for-profit hospitals to for-profit entities. these laws may require prior approval from the state attorney general, advance notification of the attorney general or other regulators and community involvement. attorneys general in states without specific requirements may exercise broad discretionary authority over transactions involving the sale of not-for-profits under their general obligations to protect the use of charitable assets. these conversion legislative and administrative efforts often focus on the appropriate valuation of the assets divested and the use of the proceeds of the sale by the non-profit seller and may include consideration of commitments for capital improvements and charity care by the purchaser. also, the increasingly challenging regulatory and enforcement environment may negatively impact our ability to acquire health care businesses if they are found to have material unresolved compliance issues, such as repayment obligations. resolving compliance issues as well as completion of oversight, review or approval processes could seriously delay or even prevent our ability to acquire hospitals or other businesses and increase our acquisition costs. we may be unable to timely and effectively integrate hospitals and other businesses that we acquire with our ongoing operations, or we may experience delays implementing operating procedures and systems. hospitals and other health care businesses that we acquire may have unknown or contingent liabilities, including liabilities for failure to comply with health care and other laws and regulations, medical and general professional liabilities, workers compensation liabilities and tax liabilities. although we typically exclude significant liabilities from our acquisition transactions and seek indemnification from the sellers for these matters, we could experience difficulty enforcing those obligations, experience liability in excess of any indemnification obtained or otherwise incur material liabilities for the pre-acquisition conduct of acquired businesses. such liabilities and related legal or other costs could harm our business and results of operations. our facilities are heavily concentrated in florida and texas, which makes us sensitive to regulatory, economic, environmental and competitive conditions and changes in those states. we operated 168 hospitals at december 31, 2015, and 81 of those hospitals are located in florida and texas. our florida and texas facilities combined revenues represented approximately 47% of our consolidated revenues for the year ended december 31, 2015. this concentration makes us particularly sensitive to regulatory, economic, environmental and competitive conditions and changes in those states. any material change in the current payment programs or regulatory, economic, environmental or competitive conditions in those states could have a disproportionate effect on our overall business results. in addition, our hospitals in florida, texas and other areas across the gulf coast are located in hurricane-prone areas. in the past, hurricanes have had a disruptive effect on the operations of our hospitals in florida, texas and other coastal states and the patient populations in those states. our business activities could be harmed by a particularly active hurricane season or even a single storm, and the property insurance we obtain may not be adequate to cover losses from future hurricanes or other natural disasters. we may be subject to liabilities from claims by taxing authorities. the irs examination division began an audit of hca holdings, inc. 2011 and 2012 federal income tax returns during 2014. we are also subject to examination by state and foreign taxing authorities. 46 table of contents management believes hca holdings, inc., its predecessors, subsidiaries and affiliates properly reported taxable income and paid taxes in accordance with applicable laws and agreements established with the irs, state and foreign taxing authorities and final resolution of any disputes will not have a material, adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. however, if payments due upon final resolution of any issues exceed our recorded estimates, such resolutions could have a material, adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. we may be subject to liabilities from claims brought against our facilities. we are subject to litigation relating to our business practices, including claims and legal actions by patients and others in the ordinary course of business alleging malpractice, product liability or other legal theories. many of these actions seek large sums of money as damages and involve significant defense costs. we insure a portion of our professional liability risks through a 100% owned subsidiary. management believes our reserves for self-insured retentions and insurance coverage are sufficient to cover insured claims arising out of the operation of our facilities. our 100% owned liability insurance subsidiary has entered into certain reinsurance contracts; however, the subsidiary remains liable to the extent that the reinsurers do not meet their obligations under the reinsurance contracts. if payments for claims exceed actuarially determined estimates, are not covered by insurance, or reinsurers, if any, fail to meet their obligations, our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected. we are exposed to market risk related to changes in the market values of securities and interest rate changes. we are exposed to market risk related to changes in market values of securities. the investments in debt and equity securities of our 100% owned insurance subsidiaries were $478 million and $4 million, respectively, at december 31, 2015. these investments are carried at fair value, with changes in unrealized gains and losses being recorded as adjustments to other comprehensive income. at december 31, 2015, we had a net unrealized gain of $20 million on the insurance subsidiaries investment securities. we are exposed to market risk related to market illiquidity. investments in debt and equity securities of our 100% owned insurance subsidiaries could be impaired by the inability to access the capital markets. should the 100% owned insurance subsidiaries require significant amounts of cash in excess of normal cash requirements to pay claims and other expenses on short notice, we may have difficulty selling these investments in a timely manner or be forced to sell them at a price less than what we might otherwise have been able to in a normal market environment. we may be required to recognize other-than-temporary impairments on long-term investments in future periods should issuers default on interest payments or should the fair market valuations of the securities deteriorate due to ratings downgrades or other issue specific factors. we are also exposed to market risk related to changes in interest rates, and we periodically enter into interest rate swap agreements to manage our exposure to these fluctuations. our interest rate swap agreements involve the exchange of fixed and variable rate interest payments between two parties, based on common notional principal amounts and maturity dates. the notional amounts of the swap agreements represent balances used to calculate the exchange of cash flows and are not our assets or liabilities. the investors may continue to have influence over us and may have conflicts of interest with us in the future. on november 17, 2006, hca inc. was acquired by a private investor group, including affiliates of or funds sponsored by bain capital partners, llc, kohlberg kravis roberts &amp; co., baml capital partners and hca founder, dr. thomas f. frist, jr. (collectively, the investors ) and by members of management and certain other investors. through their investment in hercules holding ii, llc, certain of the investors continue to hold a significant interest in our outstanding common stock (approximately 21% as of january 31, 2016). in addition, pursuant to a shareholders agreement we entered into with hercules holding ii, llc, certain representatives of the investors have the continued right to nominate certain of the members of our board of directors. as a result, certain of the investors potentially have the ability to influence our decisions to enter into corporate transactions 47 table of contents (and the terms thereof) and prevent changes in the composition of our board of directors and any transaction that requires stockholder approval. additionally, the investors are in the business of making investments in companies and may acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. one or more of the investors may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 81 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information with respect to this item is provided under the caption market risk under item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations.risk factors 31 risk factors if any of the events discussed in the following risk factors were to occur, our business, financial position, results of operations, cash flows or prospects could be materially, adversely affected. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known, or currently deemed immaterial, may also constrain our business and operations. our substantial leverage could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry, expose us to interest rate risk to the extent of our variable rate debt and prevent us from meeting our obligations. we are highly leveraged. as of december 31, 2016, our total indebtedness was $31.376 billion. as of december 31, 2016, we had availability of $1.767 billion under our senior secured revolving credit facility and $330 million under our asset-based revolving credit facility, after giving effect to letters of credit and borrowing base limitations. our high degree of leverage could have important consequences, including: increasing our vulnerability to downturns or adverse changes in general economic, industry or competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulations; requiring a substantial portion of cash flows from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, therefore reducing our ability to use our cash flows to fund our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities; exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our unhedged borrowings are at variable rates of interest; limiting our ability to make strategic acquisitions or causing us to make nonstrategic divestitures; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, share repurchases, product or service line development, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and 31 table of contents limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who are less highly leveraged. we and our subsidiaries have the ability to incur additional indebtedness in the future, subject to the restrictions contained in our senior secured credit facilities and the indentures governing our outstanding notes. if new indebtedness is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could intensify. we may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may not be able to refinance our indebtedness on favorable terms. if we are unable to do so, we may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. we cannot assure you we will maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. in addition, we conduct our operations through our subsidiaries. accordingly, repayment of our indebtedness is dependent on the generation of cash flows by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise. our subsidiaries may not be able to, or may not be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness. each subsidiary is a distinct legal entity, and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. we may find it necessary or prudent to refinance our outstanding indebtedness, the terms of which may not be favorable to us. our ability to refinance our indebtedness on favorable terms, or at all, is directly affected by the then current global economic and financial conditions. in addition, our ability to incur secured indebtedness (which would generally enable us to achieve better pricing than the incurrence of unsecured indebtedness) depends in part on the value of our assets, which depends, in turn, on the strength of our cash flows and results of operations, and on economic and market conditions and other factors. if our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations or we are unable to refinance our indebtedness, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure our indebtedness. these alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. if our operating results and available cash are insufficient to meet our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. we may not be able to consummate those dispositions, or the proceeds from the dispositions may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. our debt agreements contain restrictions that limit our flexibility in operating our business. our senior secured credit facilities and, to a lesser extent, the indentures governing our outstanding notes contain various covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions. these covenants limit our and certain of our subsidiaries ability to, among other things: incur additional indebtedness or issue certain preferred shares; pay dividends on, repurchase or make distributions in respect of our capital stock or make other restricted payments; make certain investments; sell or transfer assets; 32 table of contents create liens; consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and enter into certain transactions with our affiliates. under our asset-based revolving credit facility, when (and for as long as) the combined availability under our asset-based revolving credit facility and our senior secured revolving credit facility is less than a specified amount for a certain period of time or, if a payment or bankruptcy event of default has occurred and is continuing, funds deposited into any of our depository accounts will be transferred on a daily basis into a blocked account with the administrative agent and applied to prepay loans under the asset-based revolving credit facility and to collateralize letters of credit issued thereunder. under our senior secured credit facilities, we are required to satisfy and maintain specified financial ratios. our ability to meet those financial ratios can be affected by events beyond our control, and there can be no assurance we will continue to meet those ratios. a breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under both the cash flow credit facility and the asset-based revolving credit facility. upon the occurrence of an event of default under these senior secured credit facilities, the lenders thereunder could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the senior secured credit facilities to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit, which would also result in an event of default under a significant portion of our outstanding indebtedness. if we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under the senior secured credit facilities could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure such indebtedness. we have pledged a significant portion of our assets under our senior secured credit facilities and that collateral is also pledged as collateral under our first lien notes. if any of the lenders under the senior secured credit facilities accelerate the repayment of borrowings, there can be no assurance there will be sufficient assets to repay the senior secured credit facilities, the first lien notes and our other indebtedness. our hospitals face competition for patients from other hospitals and health care providers. the health care business is highly competitive, and competition among hospitals and other health care providers for patients has intensified in recent years. generally, other hospitals in the communities we serve provide services similar to those offered by our hospitals. in addition, cms publicizes on its hospital compare website performance data related to quality measures and data on patient satisfaction surveys hospitals submit in connection with their medicare reimbursement. federal law provides for the future expansion of the number of quality measures that must be reported. additional quality measures and future trends toward clinical transparency may have an unanticipated impact on our competitive position and patient volumes. further, every hospital must establish and update annually a public listing of the hospital standard charges for items and services. if any of our hospitals achieve poor results (or results that are lower than our competitors) on these quality measures or on patient satisfaction surveys or if our standard charges are higher than our competitors, our patient volumes could decline. in addition, the number of freestanding specialty hospitals, surgery centers, emergency departments, urgent care centers and diagnostic and imaging centers in the geographic areas in which we operate has increased significantly. as a result, most of our hospitals operate in a highly competitive environment. some of the facilities that compete with our hospitals are physician-owned or are owned by governmental agencies or not-for-profit corporations supported by endowments, charitable contributions and/or tax revenues and can finance capital expenditures and operations on a tax-exempt basis. our hospitals face competition from competitors that are implementing physician alignment strategies, such as employing physicians, acquiring physician practice groups and participating in acos or other clinical integration models. our hospitals compete with specialty hospitals and with both our own and unaffiliated freestanding surgery centers for market share in certain high margin services and for quality physicians and personnel. if ascs are better able to compete in this environment than our hospitals, our hospitals may experience a decline in patient volume, and we may experience a decrease in margin, even if those patients use our ascs. in states that do not require a con or other 33 table of contents type of approval for the purchase, construction or expansion of health care facilities or services, competition in the form of new services, facilities and capital spending is more prevalent. further, if our competitors are better able to attract patients, make capital expenditures and maintain modern and technologically upgraded facilities and equipment, recruit physicians, expand services or obtain favorable managed care contracts at their facilities than our hospitals and ascs, we may experience an overall decline in patient volume. see item 1, business competition. a deterioration in the collectability of uninsured and patient due accounts could adversely affect our results of operations. the primary collection risks for our accounts receivable relate to the uninsured patient accounts and patient accounts for which the primary insurance carrier has paid the amounts covered by the applicable agreement, but patient responsibility amounts (exclusions, deductibles and copayments) remain outstanding. the provision for doubtful accounts relates primarily to amounts due directly from patients. medicare reimburses hospitals for 65% of eligible medicare bad debts. to be eligible for reimbursement, the amounts claimed must meet certain criteria, including that the debt is related to unpaid deductible or coinsurance amounts and that the hospital first attempted to collect the fees from the medicare beneficiary. the amount of the provision for doubtful accounts is based upon management assessment of historical write-offs and expected net collections, business and economic conditions, trends in federal and state governmental and private employer health care coverage, the rate of growth in uninsured patient admissions and other collection indicators. at december 31, 2016, our allowance for doubtful accounts represented approximately 97.5% of the $5.116 billion patient due accounts receivable balance. the sum of the provision for doubtful accounts, uninsured discounts and charity care increased from $15.943 billion for 2014 to $18.287 billion for 2015 and to $20.455 billion for 2016. any increase in the amount or deterioration in the collectability of uninsured accounts receivable will adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations. our facilities may experience growth in bad debts, uninsured discounts and charity care as a result of a number of factors, including conditions impacting the overall economy and high unemployment. as a result of the 2016 federal elections, the provisions of the health reform law that have reduced the number of uninsured individuals may be repealed or significantly changed. even if the health reform law remains in effect, we will continue to experience collectability issues and provide uninsured discounts and charity care for individuals residing in states that choose not to implement the medicaid expansion, for undocumented aliens who are not permitted to enroll in an exchange or government health care programs and for certain others who may not have insurance coverage. further, some patients may choose to enroll in lower cost medicaid plans or other insurance plans with lower reimbursement levels. we may also be adversely affected by the growth in patient responsibility accounts as a result of increases in the adoption of plan structures that shift greater responsibility for care to individuals through greater exclusions and copayment and deductible amounts. changes in government health care programs may adversely affect our revenues. a significant portion of our patient volume is derived from government health care programs, principally medicare and medicaid. specifically, we derived 41.7% of our revenues from the medicare and medicaid programs in 2016. changes in government health care programs may reduce the reimbursement we receive and could adversely affect our business and results of operations. the health reform law has made significant changes to medicare and medicaid, and future health reform efforts or efforts to repeal or significantly change the health reform law may impact these programs. in recent years, legislative and regulatory changes have resulted in limitations on and, in some cases, reductions in levels of payments to health care providers for certain services under the medicare program. the bca requires automatic spending reductions of $1.2 trillion for federal fiscal years 2013 through 2021, minus 34 table of contents any deficit reductions enacted by congress and debt service costs. however, the percentage reduction for medicare may not be more than 2% for a fiscal year, with a uniform percentage reduction across all medicare programs. these reductions have been extended by congress through 2025. we are unable to predict what other deficit reduction initiatives may be proposed by congress or whether congress will attempt to suspend or restructure the automatic budget cuts. these reductions are in addition to reductions mandated by the health reform law, which provides for material reductions in the growth of medicare program spending, including reductions in medicare market basket updates and medicare dsh funding. further, from time to time, cms revises the reimbursement systems used to reimburse health care providers, including changes to the ms-drg system and other payment systems, which may result in reduced medicare payments. for example, cms has established what is referred to as the two midnight rule. under the rule, services provided to medicare beneficiaries are only payable as inpatient hospital services when there is a reasonable expectation that the hospital care is medically necessary and will be required across two midnights, absent unusual circumstances. stays expected to need fewer than two midnights of hospital care will be subject to medical review by qios on a case-by-case basis. providers that exhibit persistent noncompliance with the two midnight rule may be referred to racs. because most states must operate with balanced budgets and because the medicaid program is often a state largest program, some states have enacted or may consider enacting legislation designed to reduce their medicaid expenditures. further, many states have also adopted, or are considering, legislation designed to reduce coverage, enroll medicaid recipients in managed care programs and/or impose additional taxes on hospitals to help finance or expand the states medicaid systems. periods of economic weakness may increase the budgetary pressures on many states, and these budgetary pressures may result in decreased spending, or decreased spending growth, for medicaid programs and chip in many states. some states that provide medicaid supplemental payments are reviewing these programs or have filed waiver requests with cms to replace these programs, and cms has performed and continues to perform compliance reviews of some states programs, which could result in medicaid supplemental payments being reduced or eliminated. currently, texas operates a medicaid waiver program pursuant to a waiver that cms agreed to extend through december 31, 2017. texas has requested an additional extension of the waiver through september 30, 2019. we cannot predict whether the texas medicaid waiver program will be further extended, continue in its current form or guarantee that revenues recognized from the program will not decrease. further, legislation and administrative actions at the federal level may significantly alter the funding for, or structure of, the medicaid program. for example, from time to time, congress considers proposals to restructure the medicaid program to involve block grants that would be administered by the states. in some cases, commercial third-party payers rely on all or portions of medicare payment systems to determine payment rates. changes to government health care programs that reduce payments under these programs may negatively impact payments from commercial third-party payers. current or future health care reform and deficit reduction efforts, changes in laws or regulations regarding government health care programs, other changes in the administration of government health care programs and changes by commercial third-party payers in response to health care reform and other changes to government health care programs could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. our results of operations may be adversely affected if the health reform law is repealed, replaced or otherwise significantly changed. we are unable to predict what, if any, and when such changes will be made in the future. the health reform law has reduced the number of uninsured patients to whom we provide health care services. it has done so primarily through the exchanges and medicaid expansion. it also, however, reduced our medicare and medicaid reimbursement, including reductions to market basket increases that took effect before the effective date of the market reforms and medicaid expansion. some of those decreases were substantial. nevertheless, it is expected that the health reform law, as presently implemented, will continue to have a meaningful contribution to the company results of operations. 35 table of contents however, many insurers have exited the exchanges in the markets served by the company. to the extent some markets lack a sufficient number of insurers participating in the exchanges, it could threaten the continued viability of the exchanges in those markets. in addition, it has been publicly reported that there are proposals being discussed in congress and the administration to repeal, amend or replace the law. some of those proposals include age-based rather than income-based tax credits, as well as risk pools for those with pre-existing conditions. further, there are proposals to create block grants to states for medicaid or to establish per capita caps on state medicaid programs. those block grants or per capita caps could apply not only to the medicaid expansion under the health reform law, but also to medicaid as a whole. we cannot predict whether any such repeal, amend or replace proposals, or any parts of them, will become law, and if they do what their substance or timing will be. the president of the united states has also signed an executive order that directs agencies to minimize economic and regulatory burdens of the health reform law. it is unclear what regulations or policies will be proposed and implemented pursuant to that executive order. if any of the foregoing events were to occur, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. if our volume of patients with commercial insurance declines or we are unable to retain and negotiate favorable contracts with nongovernment payers, including managed care plans, our revenues may be reduced. nongovernment payers, including hmos, ppos and other managed care plans, typically reimburse health care providers at a higher rate than medicare, medicaid or other government health care programs. reimbursement rates are set forth by contract when our facilities are in-network, and payers utilize plan structures to encourage or require the use of in-network providers. revenues derived from nongovernment payers (domestic only) accounted for 56.5%, 55.2% and 54.4% of our revenues for 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. as a result, our ability to maintain or increase patient volumes covered by nongovernment payers and to maintain and obtain favorable contracts with nongovernment payers significantly affects the revenues and operating results of our facilities. nongovernment payers, including managed care payers, continue to demand discounted fee structures, and the trend toward consolidation among nongovernment payers tends to increase their bargaining power over fee structures. nongovernment payers may utilize plan structures such as narrow networks and tiered networks that limit beneficiary provider choices or impose significantly higher cost sharing obligations when care is obtained from providers in a disfavored tier. other health care providers may impact our ability to enter into managed care contracts or negotiate increases in our reimbursement and other favorable terms and conditions. for example, some of our competitors may negotiate exclusivity provisions with managed care plans or otherwise restrict the ability of managed care companies to contract with us. our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to 36 table of contents retain and renew our managed care contracts and enter into new managed care contracts on terms favorable to us. it is not clear what impact, if any, future health reform efforts or the repeal of, or changes to, the health reform law will have on our ability to negotiate reimbursement increases and participate in plan networks on favorable terms. if we are unable to retain and negotiate favorable contracts with managed care plans or experience reductions in payment increases or amounts received from nongovernment payers, our revenues may be reduced. our performance depends on our ability to recruit and retain quality physicians. the success of our hospitals depends in part on the number and quality of the physicians on the medical staffs of our hospitals, the admitting and utilization practices of those physicians, maintaining good relations with those physicians and controlling costs related to the employment of physicians. although we employ some physicians, physicians are often not employees of the hospitals at which they practice, and, in many of the markets we serve, most physicians have admitting privileges at other hospitals in addition to our hospitals. such physicians may terminate their affiliation with our hospitals at any time. we may face increased challenges in this area as the physician population reaches retirement age, especially if there is a shortage of physicians willing and able to provide comparable services. if we are unable to provide adequate support personnel or technologically advanced equipment and hospital facilities that meet the needs of those physicians and their patients, they may be discouraged from referring patients to our facilities, admissions may decrease and our operating performance may decline. our hospitals face competition for staffing, which may increase labor costs and reduce profitability. our operations are dependent on the efforts, abilities and experience of our management and medical support personnel, such as nurses, pharmacists and lab technicians, as well as our physicians. we compete with other health care providers in recruiting and retaining qualified management and support personnel responsible for the daily operations of each of our hospitals, including nurses and other nonphysician health care professionals. in some markets, the availability of nurses and other medical support personnel has been a significant operating issue to health care providers. we may be required to continue to enhance wages and benefits to recruit and retain nurses and other medical support personnel or to hire more expensive temporary or contract personnel. as a result, our labor costs could increase. we also depend on the available labor pool of semi-skilled and unskilled employees in each of the markets in which we operate. certain proposed changes in federal labor laws and the nlrb modification of its election procedures could increase the likelihood of employee unionization attempts. to the extent a significant portion of our employee base unionizes, it is possible our labor costs could increase materially. when negotiating collective bargaining agreements with unions, whether such agreements are renewals or first contracts, there is the possibility that strikes could occur during the negotiation process, and our continued operation during any strikes could increase our labor costs. in addition, the states in which we operate could adopt mandatory nurse-staffing ratios or could reduce mandatory nurse staffing ratios already in place. state-mandated nurse-staffing ratios could significantly affect labor costs and have an adverse impact on revenues if we are required to limit admissions in order to meet the required ratios. if our labor costs increase, we may not be able to raise rates to offset these increased costs. because a significant percentage of our revenues consists of fixed, prospective payments, our ability to pass along increased labor costs is constrained. our failure to recruit and retain qualified management, nurses and other medical support personnel, or to control labor costs, could have a material, adverse effect on our results of operations. if we fail to comply with extensive laws and government regulations, we could suffer penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations. the health care industry is required to comply with extensive and complex laws and regulations at the federal, state and local government levels relating to, among other things: billing and coding for services and properly handling overpayments; appropriateness and classification of level of care provided, including proper classification of inpatient admissions, observation services and outpatient care; 37 table of contents relationships with physicians and other referral sources and referral recipients; necessity and adequacy of medical care; quality of medical equipment and services; qualifications of medical and support personnel; confidentiality, maintenance, data breach, identity theft and security issues associated with health-related and personal information and medical records; screening, stabilization and transfer of individuals who have emergency medical conditions; licensure, certification and enrollment with government programs; hospital rate or budget review; debt collection; preparing and filing of cost reports; operating policies and procedures; activities regarding competitors; addition of facilities and services; and environmental protection. among these laws are the federal anti-kickback statute, the federal stark law, the fca and similar state laws. we have a variety of financial relationships with physicians and others who either refer or influence the referral of patients to our hospitals, other health care facilities and employed physicians or who are the recipients of referrals, and these laws govern those relationships. the oig has enacted safe harbor regulations that outline practices deemed protected from prosecution under the anti-kickback statute. while we endeavor to comply with the applicable safe harbors, certain of our current arrangements, including joint ventures and financial relationships with physicians and other referral sources and persons and entities to which we refer patients, do not qualify for safe harbor protection. failure to qualify for a safe harbor does not mean the arrangement necessarily violates the anti-kickback statute but may subject the arrangement to greater scrutiny. however, we cannot offer assurance that practices outside of a safe harbor will not be found to violate the anti-kickback statute. allegations of violations of the anti-kickback statute may be brought under the federal civil monetary penalty law, which requires a lower burden of proof than other fraud and abuse laws, including the anti-kickback statute. our financial relationships with referring physicians and their immediate family members must comply with the stark law by meeting an exception. we attempt to structure our relationships to meet an exception to the stark law, but the regulations implementing the exceptions are detailed and complex, and we cannot provide assurance that every relationship complies fully with the stark law. unlike the anti-kickback statute, failure to meet an exception under the stark law results in a violation of the stark law, even if such violation is technical in nature. additionally, if we violate the anti-kickback statute or stark law, or if we improperly bill for our services, we may be found to violate the fca, either under a suit brought by the government or by a private person under a qui tam , or whistleblower, suit. see item 1, business regulation and other factors. we also operate health care facilities in the united kingdom and have operations and commercial relationships with companies in other foreign jurisdictions and, as a result, are subject to certain u.s. and foreign laws applicable to businesses generally, including anti-corruption laws. the foreign corrupt practices act regulates u.s. companies in their dealings with foreign officials, prohibiting bribes and similar practices, and requires that they maintain records that fairly and accurately reflect transactions and appropriate internal accounting controls. in addition, the united kingdom bribery act has wide jurisdiction over certain activities that affect the united kingdom. 38 table of contents we engage in consumer debt collection for hca affiliated hospitals and certain non-affiliated hospitals. the federal fair debt collection practices act and telephone consumer protection act restrict the methods that companies may use to contact and seek payment from consumer debtors regarding past due accounts. many states impose additional requirements on debt collection practices, and some of those requirements may be more stringent than the federal requirements. if we fail to comply with these or other applicable laws and regulations, we could be subject to liabilities, including civil penalties, the loss of our licenses to operate one or more facilities, exclusion of one or more facilities from participation in the medicare, medicaid and other federal and state health care programs and criminal penalties. we do not always have the benefit of significant regulatory or judicial interpretation of these laws and regulations. in the future, different interpretations or enforcement of, or amendment to, these or other laws and regulations could subject our current or past practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality or could require us to make changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel, services, capital expenditure programs and operating expenses. a determination that we have violated these or other laws, or the public announcement that we are being investigated for possible violations of these or other laws, could have a material, adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects, and our business reputation could suffer significantly. in addition, other legislation or regulations at the federal or state level may be adopted that adversely affect our business. we have been and could become the subject of governmental investigations, claims and litigation. health care companies are subject to numerous investigations by various governmental agencies. further, under the fca, private parties have the right to bring qui tam , or whistleblower, suits against companies that submit false claims for payments to, or improperly retain overpayments from, the government. some states have adopted similar state whistleblower and false claims provisions. certain of our individual facilities have received, and other facilities may receive, government inquiries from, and may be subject to investigation by, federal and state agencies. depending on whether the underlying conduct in these or future inquiries or investigations could be considered systemic, their resolution could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. governmental agencies and their agents, such as the macs, fiscal intermediaries and carriers, as well as the oig, cms and state medicaid programs, conduct audits of our health care operations. private payers may conduct similar post-payment audits, and we also perform internal audits and monitoring. depending on the nature of the conduct found in such audits and whether the underlying conduct could be considered systemic, the resolution of these audits could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. cms contracts with racs on a contingency fee basis to conduct post-payment reviews to detect and correct improper payments in the fee-for-service medicare program. the health reform law expanded the rac program scope to include managed medicare plans and medicaid claims. rac denials are appealable; however, there are currently significant delays in the assignment of new medicare appeals to administrative law judges, which negatively impacts our ability to appeal rac payment denials. in addition, cms employs mics to perform post-payment audits of medicaid claims and identify overpayments, and state medicaid agencies and other contractors have increased their review activities. should we be found out of compliance with any of these laws, regulations or programs, depending on the nature of the findings, our business, our financial position and our results of operations could be negatively impacted. 39 table of contents changes to physician utilization practices and treatment methodologies, governmental or managed care controls designed to reduce inpatient services or surgical procedures and other factors outside our control that impact demand for medical services may reduce our revenues. controls imposed by medicare, managed medicare, medicaid, managed medicaid and commercial third-party payers designed to reduce admissions, intensity of services, surgical volumes and lengths of stay, in some instances referred to as utilization review, have affected and are expected to continue to affect our facilities. utilization review entails the review of the admission and course of treatment of a patient by health plans. the medicare program also issues national or local coverage determinations that restrict the circumstances under which medicare pays for certain services. inpatient utilization, average lengths of stay and occupancy rates continue to be negatively affected by payer-required preadmission authorization, coverage restrictions and utilization review and by payer pressure to maximize outpatient and alternative health care delivery services for less acutely ill patients. efforts to impose more stringent cost controls are expected to continue. additionally, trends in physician treatment protocols and managed care health plan design, such as plans that shift increased costs and accountability for care to patients, could reduce our surgical volumes and admissions in favor of lower intensity and lower cost treatment methodologies. volume, admission and case-mix trends may be impacted by other factors beyond our control, such as changes in volume of certain high acuity services, variations in the prevalence and severity of outbreaks of influenza and other illnesses and medical conditions, seasonal and severe weather conditions, changes in treatment regimens and medical technology and other advances. these factors may reduce the demand for services we offer and decrease the reimbursement that we receive. significant limits on the scope of services reimbursed, cost controls, changes to physician utilization practices, treatment methodologies, reimbursement rates and fees and other factors beyond our control could have a material, adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. our overall business results may suffer during periods of general economic weakness. budget deficits at federal, state and local government entities have had a negative impact on spending, and may continue to negatively impact spending, for health and human service programs, including medicare, medicaid and similar programs, which represent significant payer sources for our hospitals. other risks we face during periods of economic weakness and high unemployment include potential declines in the population covered under managed care agreements, patient decisions to postpone or cancel elective and nonemergency health care procedures (including delaying surgical procedures), potential increases in the uninsured and underinsured populations and further difficulties in collecting patient copayment and deductible receivables. the industry trend toward value-based purchasing may negatively impact our revenues. there is a trend in the health care industry toward value-based purchasing of health care services. these value-based purchasing programs include both public reporting of quality data and preventable adverse events tied to the quality and efficiency of care provided by facilities. governmental programs including medicare currently require hospitals to report certain quality data to receive full reimbursement updates. in addition, medicare does not reimburse for care related to certain preventable adverse events (also called never events ). the health reform law also prohibits the use of federal funds under the medicaid program to reimburse providers for medical assistance provided to treat hacs. as of federal fiscal year 2015, the 25% of hospitals with the worst risk-adjusted hac rates in the designated performance period receive a 1% reduction in their inpatient pps medicare payments. hospitals with excess readmission rates for conditions designated by hhs will receive a reduction in their inpatient pps operating medicare payments for all medicare inpatient discharges, not just discharges relating to the conditions subject to the excess readmission standard. the reduction in payments to hospitals with excess readmissions can be up to 3% for federal fiscal year 2015 and subsequent years. 40 table of contents hhs has implemented a value-based purchasing program for inpatient hospital services that reduces inpatient hospital payments for all discharges by 2% in federal fiscal year 2017 and for subsequent years. hhs pools the amount collected from these reductions to fund payments to reward hospitals that meet or exceed certain quality performance standards established by hhs. hhs estimates that $1.8 billion in value-based incentive payments will be available to hospitals in federal fiscal year 2017 based on achievement (relative to other hospitals) and improvement (relative to the hospital own past performance). hospitals that meet or exceed the quality performance standards will receive greater reimbursement under the value-based purchasing program than they would have otherwise. in 2016, cms implemented a five-year mandatory bundled payment initiative for orthopedic services in selected markets. it also established a new mandatory bundled payment initiative that is focused on cardiac care and is scheduled to begin in 2017. depending on whether overall cms spending per episode exceeds or falls below a target specified by cms and whether quality standards are met, hospitals may receive supplemental medicare payments or owe repayments to cms. mandatory participation in demonstration projects, particularly demonstrations with the potential to affect payment, may negatively impact our results of operations. many large commercial payers currently require hospitals to report quality data, and several commercial payers do not reimburse hospitals for certain preventable adverse events. further, we have implemented a policy pursuant to which we do not bill patients or third-party payers for fees or expenses incurred due to certain preventable adverse events. we expect value-based purchasing programs, including programs that condition reimbursement on patient outcome measures, to become more common and to involve a higher percentage of reimbursement amounts. cms has announced aggressive goals for adopting alternative payment models, which may include additional mandatory bundled or other alternative payment programs, and commercial insurers may also transition away from fee-for-service payment models. we are unable at this time to predict our future payments or whether we will be subject to payment reductions under these programs or how this trend will affect our results of operations, but it could negatively impact our revenues. our operations could be impaired by a failure of our information systems. the performance of our information systems is critical to our business operations. in addition to our shared services initiatives, our information systems are essential to a number of critical areas of our operations, including: accounting and financial reporting; billing and collecting accounts; coding and compliance; clinical systems; medical records and document storage; inventory management; negotiating, pricing and administering managed care contracts and supply contracts; and monitoring quality of care and collecting data on quality measures necessary for full medicare payment updates. information systems may be vulnerable to damage from a variety of sources, including telecommunications or network failures, human acts and natural disasters. we have taken precautionary measures to prevent unanticipated problems that could affect our information systems. nevertheless, we may experience system failures. the occurrence of any system failure could result in interruptions, delays, the loss or corruption of data and cessations or interruptions in the availability of systems, all of which could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations and harm our business reputation. 41 table of contents a cybersecurity incident could result in the compromise of a facility, confidential data or critical data systems and give rise to potential harm to patients, remediation and other expenses, expose us to liability under hipaa, consumer protection laws, or other common law theories, subject us to litigation and federal and state governmental inquiries, damage our reputation, and otherwise be disruptive to our business. we collect and store on our networks sensitive information, including intellectual property, proprietary business information and personally identifiable information of our patients and employees. in addition, we have made significant investments in technology to adopt and utilize ehr and to become meaningful users of health information technology. the secure maintenance of this information and technology is critical to our business operations. we have implemented multiple layers of security measures to protect the confidentiality, integrity and availability of this data and the systems and devices that store and transmit such data. we utilize current security technologies, and our defenses are monitored and routinely tested internally and by external parties. despite these efforts, threats from malicious persons and groups, new vulnerabilities and advanced new attacks against information systems create risk of cybersecurity incidents. there can be no assurance that we will not be subject to cybersecurity incidents that bypass our security measures, impact the integrity, availability or privacy of personal health information or other data subject to privacy laws or disrupt our information systems, devices or business, including our ability to provide various health care services. as a result, cybersecurity, physical security and the continued development and enhancement of our controls, processes and practices designed to protect our facilities, information systems and data from attack, damage or unauthorized access remain a priority for us. as cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any cybersecurity vulnerabilities. the occurrence of any of these events could result in (i) harm to patients; (ii) business interruptions and delays; (iii) the loss, misappropriation, corruption or unauthorized access of data; (iv) litigation and potential liability under privacy, security and consumer protection laws or other applicable laws; (v) reputational damage and (vi) federal and state governmental inquiries, any of which could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations and harm our business reputation. if we fail to continue to demonstrate meaningful use of certified electronic health record systems, our operations could be adversely affected. as of 2015, eligible hospitals and eligible professionals that fail to demonstrate meaningful use of certified ehr technology in an applicable prior reporting period are subject to reduced payments from medicare. failure to continue to demonstrate meaningful use of certified ehr technology could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. the emergence and effects related to a pandemic, epidemic or outbreak of an infectious disease could adversely affect our operations. if a pandemic, epidemic, outbreak of an infectious disease or other public health crisis were to occur in an area in which we operate, our operations could be adversely affected. such a crisis could diminish the public trust in health care facilities, especially hospitals that fail to accurately or timely diagnose, or are treating (or have treated) patients affected by infectious diseases. if any of our facilities were involved, or perceived as being involved, in treating patients from such an infectious disease, patients might cancel elective procedures or fail to seek needed care at our facilities. further, a pandemic, epidemic or outbreak might adversely affect our operations by causing a temporary shutdown or diversion of patients, by disrupting or delaying production and delivery of materials and products in the supply chain or by causing staffing shortages in our facilities. we have disaster plans in place and operate pursuant to infectious disease protocols, but the potential emergence of a pandemic, epidemic or outbreak is difficult to predict and could adversely affect our operations. 42 table of contents state efforts to regulate the construction or expansion of health care facilities could impair our ability to operate and expand our operations. some states, particularly in the eastern part of the country, require health care providers to obtain prior approval, often known as a con, for the purchase, construction or expansion of health care facilities, to make certain capital expenditures or to make changes in services or bed capacity. in giving approval, these states consider the need for additional or expanded health care facilities or services. we currently operate health care facilities in a number of states with con laws or that require other types of approvals for the establishment or expansion of certain facility types or services. the failure to obtain any required con or other required approval could impair our ability to operate or expand operations. any such failure could, in turn, adversely affect our ability to attract patients and physicians to our facilities and grow our revenues, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. we may encounter difficulty acquiring hospitals and other health care businesses, encounter challenges integrating the operations of acquired hospitals and other health care businesses and become liable for unknown or contingent liabilities as a result of acquisitions. a component of our business strategy is acquiring hospitals and other health care businesses. we may encounter difficulty acquiring new facilities or other businesses as a result of competition from other purchasers that may be willing to pay purchase prices that are higher than we believe are reasonable. some states require cons in order to acquire a hospital or other facility or to expand facilities or services. in addition, the acquisition of health care facilities often involves licensure approvals or reviews and complex change of ownership processes for medicare and other payers. further, many states have laws that restrict the conversion or sale of not-for-profit hospitals to for-profit entities. these laws may require prior approval from the state attorney general, advance notification of the attorney general or other regulators and community involvement. attorneys general in states without specific requirements may exercise broad discretionary authority over transactions involving the sale of not-for-profits under their general obligations to protect the use of charitable assets. these conversion legislative and administrative efforts often focus on the appropriate valuation of the assets divested and the use of the proceeds of the sale by the non-profit seller and may include consideration of commitments for capital improvements and charity care by the purchaser. also, the increasingly challenging regulatory and enforcement environment may negatively impact our ability to acquire health care businesses if they are found to have material unresolved compliance issues, such as repayment obligations. resolving compliance issues as well as completion of oversight, review or approval processes could seriously delay or even prevent our ability to acquire hospitals or other businesses and increase our acquisition costs. we may be unable to timely and effectively integrate hospitals and other businesses that we acquire with our ongoing operations, or we may experience delays implementing operating procedures and systems. hospitals and other health care businesses that we acquire may have unknown or contingent liabilities, including liabilities for failure to comply with health care and other laws and regulations, medical and general professional liabilities, workers compensation liabilities and tax liabilities. although we typically exclude significant liabilities from our acquisition transactions and seek indemnification from the sellers for these matters, we could experience difficulty enforcing those obligations, experience liability in excess of any indemnification obtained or otherwise incur material liabilities for the pre-acquisition conduct of acquired businesses. such liabilities and related legal or other costs could harm our business and results of operations. our facilities are heavily concentrated in florida and texas, which makes us sensitive to regulatory, economic, environmental and competitive conditions and changes in those states. we operated 170 hospitals at december 31, 2016, and 83 of those hospitals are located in florida and texas. our florida and texas facilities combined revenues represented approximately 47% of our consolidated revenues for the year ended december 31, 2016. this concentration makes us particularly sensitive to regulatory, economic, environmental and competitive conditions and changes in those states. any material change in the 43 table of contents current payment programs or regulatory, economic, environmental or competitive conditions in those states could have a disproportionate effect on our overall business results. in addition, our hospitals in florida, texas and other areas across the gulf coast are located in hurricane-prone areas. in the past, hurricanes have had a disruptive effect on the operations of our hospitals in florida, texas and other coastal states and the patient populations in those states. our business activities could be harmed by a particularly active hurricane season or even a single storm, and the property insurance we obtain may not be adequate to cover losses from future hurricanes or other natural disasters. we may be subject to liabilities from claims by taxing authorities. we are subject to examination by federal, state and foreign taxing authorities. management believes hca holdings, inc., its predecessors, subsidiaries and affiliates properly reported taxable income and paid taxes in accordance with applicable laws and agreements established with the irs, state and foreign taxing authorities and final resolution of any disputes will not have a material, adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. however, if payments due upon final resolution of any issues exceed our recorded estimates, such resolutions could have a material, adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. we may be subject to liabilities from claims brought against our facilities. we are subject to litigation relating to our business practices, including claims and legal actions by patients and others in the ordinary course of business alleging malpractice, product liability or other legal theories. many of these actions seek large sums of money as damages and involve significant defense costs. we insure a portion of our professional liability risks through a 100% owned subsidiary. management believes our reserves for self-insured retentions and insurance coverage are sufficient to cover insured claims arising out of the operation of our facilities. our 100% owned liability insurance subsidiary has entered into certain reinsurance contracts; however, the subsidiary remains liable to the extent that the reinsurers do not meet their obligations under the reinsurance contracts. if payments for claims exceed actuarially determined estimates, are not covered by insurance, or reinsurers, if any, fail to meet their obligations, our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected. we are exposed to market risk related to changes in the market values of securities and interest rate changes. we are exposed to market risk related to changes in market values of securities. the investments in debt and equity securities of our 100% owned insurance subsidiaries were $381 million and $4 million, respectively, at december 31, 2016. these investments are carried at fair value, with changes in unrealized gains and losses being recorded as adjustments to other comprehensive income. at december 31, 2016, we had a net unrealized gain of $11 million on the insurance subsidiaries investment securities. we are exposed to market risk related to market illiquidity. investments in debt and equity securities of our 100% owned insurance subsidiaries could be impaired by the inability to access the capital markets. should the 100% owned insurance subsidiaries require significant amounts of cash in excess of normal cash requirements to pay claims and other expenses on short notice, we may have difficulty selling these investments in a timely manner or be forced to sell them at a price less than what we might otherwise have been able to in a normal market environment. we may be required to recognize other-than-temporary impairments on long-term investments in future periods should issuers default on interest payments or should the fair market valuations of the securities deteriorate due to ratings downgrades or other issue specific factors. we are also exposed to market risk related to changes in interest rates, and we periodically enter into interest rate swap agreements to manage our exposure to these fluctuations. our interest rate swap agreements involve the exchange of fixed and variable rate interest payments between two parties, based on common notional principal amounts and maturity dates. the notional amounts of the swap agreements represent balances used to calculate the exchange of cash flows and are not our assets or liabilities. 44 table of contents certain of our investors may continue to have influence over us. on november 17, 2006, hca inc. was acquired by a private investor group, including affiliates of hca founder, dr. thomas f. frist, jr. and by members of management and certain other investors. through their investment in hercules holding ii, certain of these investors continue to hold a significant interest in our outstanding common stock (approximately 18.6% as of january 31, 2017). in addition, pursuant to a shareholders agreement we entered into with hercules holding ii, certain representatives of these investors have the continued right to nominate certain of the members of our board of directors. as a result, certain of these investors potentially have the ability to influence our decisions to enter into corporate transactions (and the terms thereof) and prevent changes in the composition of our board of directors and any transaction that requires stockholder approval. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 75 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information with respect to this item is provided under the caption market risk under item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations.risk factors 31 risk factors if any of the events discussed in the following risk factors were to occur, our business, financial position, results of operations, cash flows or prospects could be materially, adversely affected. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known, or currently deemed immaterial, may also constrain our business and operations. our substantial leverage could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry, expose us to interest rate risk to the extent of our variable rate debt and prevent us from meeting our obligations. we are highly leveraged. as of december 31, 2017, our total indebtedness was $33.058 billion. as of december 31, 2017, we had availability of $1.977 billion under our senior secured revolving credit facility and $70 million under our asset-based revolving credit facility, after giving effect to letters of credit and borrowing base limitations. our high degree of leverage could have important consequences, including: increasing our vulnerability to downturns or adverse changes in general economic, industry or competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulations; requiring a substantial portion of cash flows from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, therefore reducing our ability to use our cash flows to fund our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities; exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our unhedged borrowings are at variable rates of interest; limiting our ability to make strategic acquisitions or causing us to make nonstrategic divestitures; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, share repurchases, dividends, product or service line development, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who are less highly leveraged. we and our subsidiaries have the ability to incur additional indebtedness in the future, subject to the restrictions contained in our senior secured credit facilities and the indentures governing our outstanding notes. if new indebtedness is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could intensify. we may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may not be able to refinance our indebtedness on favorable terms. if we are unable to do so, we may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. we cannot assure you we will maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. in addition, we conduct our operations through our subsidiaries. accordingly, repayment of our indebtedness is dependent on the generation of cash flows by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise. our subsidiaries may not be able to, or may not be 31 table of contents permitted to, make distributions to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness. each subsidiary is a distinct legal entity, and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. we may find it necessary or prudent to refinance our outstanding indebtedness, the terms of which may not be favorable to us. our ability to refinance our indebtedness on favorable terms, or at all, is directly affected by the then current global economic and financial conditions. in addition, our ability to incur secured indebtedness (which would generally enable us to achieve better pricing than the incurrence of unsecured indebtedness) depends in part on the value of our assets, which depends, in turn, on the strength of our cash flows and results of operations, and on economic and market conditions and other factors. if our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations or we are unable to refinance our indebtedness, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure our indebtedness. these alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. if our operating results and available cash are insufficient to meet our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. we may not be able to consummate those dispositions, or the proceeds from the dispositions may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. our debt agreements contain restrictions that limit our flexibility in operating our business. our senior secured credit facilities and, to a lesser extent, the indentures governing our outstanding notes contain various covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions. these covenants limit our and certain of our subsidiaries ability to, among other things: incur additional indebtedness or issue certain preferred shares; pay dividends on, repurchase or make distributions in respect of our capital stock or make other restricted payments; make certain investments; sell or transfer assets; create liens; consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and enter into certain transactions with our affiliates. under our asset-based revolving credit facility, availability is subject to a borrowing base of 85% of eligible accounts receivable less customary reserves, with any reduction in the borrowing base commensurately reducing our ability to access this facility as a source of liquidity. in addition, under the asset-based revolving credit facility, when (and for as long as) the combined availability under our asset-based revolving credit facility and our senior secured revolving credit facility is less than a specified amount for a certain period of time or, if a payment or bankruptcy event of default has occurred and is continuing, funds deposited into any of our depository accounts will be transferred on a daily basis into a blocked account with the administrative agent and applied to prepay loans under the asset-based revolving credit facility and to collateralize letters of credit issued thereunder. under our senior secured credit facilities, we are required to satisfy and maintain specified financial ratios. our ability to meet those financial ratios can be affected by events beyond our control, and there can be no assurance we will continue to meet those ratios. a breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under both the cash flow credit facility and the asset-based revolving credit facility. upon the occurrence of an 32 table of contents event of default under these senior secured credit facilities, the lenders thereunder could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the senior secured credit facilities to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit, which would also result in an event of default under a significant portion of our outstanding indebtedness. if we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under the senior secured credit facilities could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure such indebtedness. we have pledged a significant portion of our assets under our senior secured credit facilities and that collateral is also pledged as collateral under our first lien notes. if any of the lenders under the senior secured credit facilities accelerate the repayment of borrowings, there can be no assurance there will be sufficient assets to repay the senior secured credit facilities, the first lien notes and our other indebtedness. our hospitals face competition for patients from other hospitals and health care providers. the health care business is highly competitive, and competition among hospitals and other health care providers for patients has intensified in recent years. generally, other hospitals in the communities we serve provide services similar to those offered by our hospitals. in addition, cms publicizes on its hospital compare website performance data related to quality measures and data on patient satisfaction surveys hospitals submit in connection with their medicare reimbursement. federal law provides for the future expansion of the number of quality measures that must be reported. additional quality measures and future trends toward clinical transparency may have an unanticipated impact on our competitive position and patient volumes. further, every hospital must establish and update annually a public listing of the hospital standard charges for items and services. if any of our hospitals achieve poor results (or results that are lower than our competitors) on these quality measures or on patient satisfaction surveys or if our standard charges are higher than our competitors, our patient volumes could decline. in addition, the number of freestanding specialty hospitals, surgery centers, emergency departments, urgent care centers and diagnostic and imaging centers in the geographic areas in which we operate has increased. as a result, most of our hospitals operate in a highly competitive environment, which may put pressure on our pricing as high margin services transition to outpatient facilities and may also place pressure on the company strategy for volume growth. some of the facilities that compete with our hospitals are physician-owned or are owned by governmental agencies or not-for-profit corporations supported by endowments, charitable contributions and/or tax revenues and can finance capital expenditures and operations on a tax-exempt basis. recent consolidations of not-for-profit hospital entities may intensify this competitive pressure. there is also increasing consolidation in the third-party payer industry, including vertical integration efforts among third-party payers and health care providers. health care industry participants are increasingly implementing physician alignment strategies, such as employing physicians, acquiring physician practice groups and participating in acos or other clinical integration models. other industry participants, such as large employer groups and their affiliates, may intensify competitive pressure and affect the industry in ways that are difficult to predict. our hospitals compete with specialty hospitals and with both our own and unaffiliated freestanding surgery centers for market share in certain high margin services and for quality physicians and personnel. if ascs are better able to compete in this environment than our hospitals, our hospitals may experience a decline in patient volume, and we may experience a decrease in margin, even if those patients use our ascs. in states that do not require a con or other type of approval for the purchase, construction or expansion of health care facilities or services, competition in the form of new services, facilities and capital spending is more prevalent. further, if our competitors are better able to attract patients, make capital expenditures and maintain modern and technologically upgraded facilities and equipment, recruit physicians, expand services or obtain favorable third-party payer contracts at their facilities than our hospitals and ascs, we may experience an overall decline in patient volume. see item 1, business competition. 33 table of contents a deterioration in the collectability of uninsured and patient due accounts could adversely affect our results of operations. the primary collection risks for our accounts receivable relate to the uninsured patient accounts and patient accounts for which the primary third-party payer has paid the amounts covered by the applicable agreement, but patient responsibility amounts (exclusions, deductibles and copayments) remain outstanding. the provision for doubtful accounts relates primarily to amounts due directly from patients. medicare reimburses hospitals for 65% of eligible medicare bad debts. to be eligible for reimbursement, the amounts claimed must meet certain criteria, including that the debt is related to unpaid deductible or coinsurance amounts and that the hospital first attempted to collect the fees from the medicare beneficiary. the amount of the provision for doubtful accounts is based upon management assessment of historical write-offs and expected net collections, business and economic conditions, trends in federal and state governmental and private employer health care coverage, the rate of growth in uninsured patient admissions and other collection indicators. at december 31, 2017, our allowance for doubtful accounts represented 100% of the $5.488 billion patient due accounts receivable balance. the sum of the provision for doubtful accounts, uninsured discounts and charity care increased from $18.287 billion for 2015 to $20.455 billion for 2016 and to $23.420 billion for 2017. any increase in the amount or deterioration in the collectability of uninsured accounts receivable will adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations. our facilities may experience growth in bad debts, uninsured discounts and charity care as a result of a number of factors, including conditions impacting the overall economy and high unemployment. in 2017, congress eliminated the financial penalty associated with the health reform law individual mandate, effective january 1, 2019, which may result in fewer individuals electing to purchase health insurance. the presidential administration and a number of members of congress continue to make other efforts to repeal or significantly change the health reform law. even if the health reform law remains in effect, we will continue to experience collectability issues and provide uninsured discounts and charity care for individuals residing in states that choose not to implement the medicaid expansion, for undocumented aliens who are not permitted to enroll in an exchange or government health care programs and for certain others who may not have insurance coverage. further, some patients may choose to enroll in lower cost medicaid plans or other health insurance plans with lower reimbursement levels. we may also be adversely affected by the growth in patient responsibility accounts as a result of increases in the adoption of health plan structures that shift greater responsibility for care to individuals through greater exclusions and copayment and deductible amounts. changes in government health care programs may adversely affect our revenues. a significant portion of our patient volume is derived from government health care programs, principally medicare and medicaid. specifically, we derived 41.8% of our revenues from the medicare and medicaid programs in 2017. changes in government health care programs may reduce the reimbursement we receive and could adversely affect our business and results of operations. the health reform law has made significant changes to medicare and medicaid, and future health reform efforts or efforts to repeal or significantly change the health reform law may impact these programs. in recent years, legislative and regulatory changes have resulted in limitations on and, in some cases, reductions in levels of payments to health care providers for certain services under the medicare program. congress has established automatic spending reductions that extend through 2027. however, the percentage reduction for medicare may not be more than 2% for a fiscal year, with a uniform percentage reduction across all medicare programs. we are unable to predict what other deficit reduction initiatives may be proposed by congress. these reductions are in addition to reductions mandated by the health reform law, which provides for material reductions in the growth of medicare program spending, including reductions in medicare market basket updates and medicare dsh funding. further, from time to time, cms revises the reimbursement systems used to reimburse health care providers, including changes to the ms-drg system and other payment systems, 34 table of contents which may result in reduced medicare payments. for example, under a site neutrality policy, certain items and services provided by off-campus provider-based departments that were formerly paid under the outpatient pps are now paid under the physician fee schedule, subject to certain exceptions. because most states must operate with balanced budgets and because the medicaid program is often a state largest program, some states have enacted or may consider enacting legislation designed to reduce their medicaid expenditures. further, many states have also adopted, or are considering, legislation designed to reduce coverage, enroll medicaid recipients in managed care programs and/or impose additional taxes on hospitals to help finance or expand the states medicaid systems. periods of economic weakness may increase the budgetary pressures on many states, and these budgetary pressures may result in decreased spending, or decreased spending growth, for medicaid programs and chip in many states. some states that provide medicaid supplemental payments are reviewing these programs or have filed waiver requests with cms to replace these programs, and cms has performed and continues to perform compliance reviews of some states programs, which could result in medicaid supplemental payments being reduced or eliminated. for example, in december 2017, cms announced that it will phase out funding for designated state health programs under certain types of medicaid waivers. further, legislation and administrative actions at the federal level may significantly alter the funding for, or structure of, the medicaid program. for example, from time to time, congress considers proposals to restructure the medicaid program to involve block grants that would be administered by the states. in some cases, private third-party payers rely on all or portions of medicare payment systems to determine payment rates. changes to government health care programs that reduce payments under these programs may negatively impact payments from private third-party payers. current or future health care reform and deficit reduction efforts, changes in laws or regulations regarding government health care programs, other changes in the administration of government health care programs and changes by private third-party payers in response to health care reform and other changes to government health care programs could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. our results of operations may be adversely affected by health care reform efforts, particularly efforts to repeal, replace or otherwise significantly change the health reform law. we are unable to predict what, if any, and when such changes will be made in the future. the health reform law represents a significant shift in the way health care services are delivered, covered, and reimbursed. although it reduced our medicare and medicaid reimbursement, the health reform law also reduced the number of uninsured patients to whom we provide health care services, primarily through the exchanges and medicaid expansion. however, many insurers have exited the exchanges in the markets served by the company. to the extent some markets lack a sufficient number of health insurers participating in the exchanges, it could threaten the continued viability of the exchanges in those markets. in addition, the presidential administration and a number of members of congress continue to attempt to repeal, amend or replace the law, or make significant changes to its implementation. in 2017, congress eliminated the financial penalty associated with the individual mandate, effective january 1, 2019. it is difficult to predict the impact of this change, but it may result in fewer individuals electing to purchase health insurance. further, the president of the united states has also signed an executive order that directs agencies to minimize economic and regulatory burdens of the health reform law, which may result in additional changes in how the law is implemented. cms has indicated that it intends to increase flexibility in state medicaid programs, including by expanding the scope of waivers under which states may implement medicaid expansion provisions, impose different eligibility or enrollment restrictions, or otherwise implement programs that vary from federal standards. there is uncertainty regarding whether, when, and how the health reform law may be further changed. changes by congress or government agencies could eliminate or alter provisions beneficial to us, and it is difficult to predict the impact of changes on other health care industry participants. government efforts to repeal or change the health reform law may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flow, capital resources, and liquidity. 35 table of contents if our volume of patients with private health insurance coverage declines or we are unable to retain and negotiate favorable contracts with private third-party payers, including managed care plans, our revenues may be reduced. private third-party payers, including hmos, ppos and other managed care plans, typically reimburse health care providers at a higher rate than medicare, medicaid or other government health care programs. reimbursement rates are set forth by contract when our facilities are in-network, and payers utilize plan structures to encourage or require the use of in-network providers. revenues derived from private third-party payers (domestic only) accounted for 56.9%, 56.5% and 55.2% of our revenues for 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. as a result, our ability to maintain or increase patient volumes covered by private third-party payers and to maintain and obtain favorable contracts with private third-party payers significantly affects the revenues and operating results of our facilities. private third-party payers, including managed care plans, continue to demand discounted fee structures, and the trend toward consolidation among payers tends to increase their bargaining power over fee structures. payers may utilize plan structures such as narrow networks and tiered networks that limit beneficiary provider choices or impose significantly higher cost sharing obligations when care is obtained from providers in a disfavored tier. other health care providers may impact our ability to enter into managed care contracts or negotiate increases in our reimbursement and other favorable terms and conditions. for example, some of our competitors may negotiate exclusivity provisions with managed care plans or otherwise restrict the ability of managed care plans to contract with us. in addition to increasing negotiating leverage of private third-party payers, alignment efforts between third-party payers and health care providers may also result in other competitive advantages, such as greater access to performance and pricing data. our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to retain and renew our third-party payer contracts and enter into new contracts on terms favorable to us. cost-reduction strategies by large employer groups and their affiliates may also limit our ability to negotiate favorable terms in our contracts and otherwise intensify competitive pressure. it is not clear what impact, if any, future health reform efforts or the repeal of, or changes to, the health reform law will have on our ability to negotiate reimbursement increases and participate in third-party payer networks on favorable terms. if we are unable to retain and negotiate favorable contracts with third-party payers or experience reductions in payment increases or amounts received from third-party payers, our revenues may be reduced. our performance depends on our ability to recruit and retain quality physicians. the success of our hospitals depends in part on the number and quality of the physicians on the medical staffs of our hospitals, the admitting and utilization practices of those physicians, maintaining good relations with those physicians and controlling costs related to the employment of physicians. although we employ some physicians, physicians are often not employees of the hospitals at which they practice, and, in many of the markets we serve, most physicians have admitting privileges at other hospitals in addition to our hospitals. such physicians may terminate their affiliation with our hospitals at any time. we may face increased challenges in this area as the physician population reaches retirement age, especially if there is a shortage of physicians willing and able to provide comparable services. if we are unable to provide adequate support personnel or technologically advanced equipment and hospital facilities that meet the needs of those physicians and their patients, they may be discouraged from referring patients to our facilities, admissions may decrease and our operating performance may decline. our hospitals face competition for staffing, which may increase labor costs and reduce profitability. our operations are dependent on the efforts, abilities and experience of our management and medical support personnel, such as nurses, pharmacists and lab technicians, as well as our physicians. we compete with other health care providers in recruiting and retaining qualified management and support personnel responsible for the daily operations of each of our hospitals, including nurses and other nonphysician health care professionals. in some markets, the availability of nurses and other medical support personnel has been a 36 table of contents significant operating issue to health care providers. we may be required to continue to enhance wages and benefits to recruit and retain nurses and other medical support personnel or to hire more expensive temporary or contract personnel. as a result, our labor costs could increase. we also depend on the available labor pool of semi-skilled and unskilled employees in each of the markets in which we operate. certain proposed changes in federal labor laws and the nlrb modification of its election procedures could increase the likelihood of employee unionization attempts. to the extent a significant portion of our employee base unionizes, it is possible our labor costs could increase materially. when negotiating collective bargaining agreements with unions, whether such agreements are renewals or first contracts, there is the possibility that strikes could occur during the negotiation process, and our continued operation during any strikes could increase our labor costs. in addition, the states in which we operate could adopt mandatory nurse-staffing ratios or could reduce mandatory nurse staffing ratios already in place. state-mandated nurse-staffing ratios could significantly affect labor costs and have an adverse impact on revenues if we are required to limit admissions in order to meet the required ratios. if our labor costs increase, we may not be able to raise rates to offset these increased costs. because a significant percentage of our revenues consists of fixed, prospective payments, our ability to pass along increased labor costs is constrained. our failure to recruit and retain qualified management, nurses and other medical support personnel, or to control labor costs, could have a material, adverse effect on our results of operations. we may be unable to attract, hire, and retain a highly qualified and diverse workforce, including key management. the talents and efforts of our employees, particularly our key management, are vital to our success. our management team has significant industry experience and would be difficult to replace. in addition, institutional knowledge may be lost in any potential managerial transition. we may be unable to retain them or to attract other highly qualified employees, particularly if we do not offer employment terms that are competitive with the rest of the labor market. failure to attract, hire, develop, motivate, and retain highly qualified and diverse employee talent, or failure to develop and implement an adequate succession plan for the management team, could disrupt our operations and adversely affect our business and our future success. if we fail to comply with extensive laws and government regulations, we could suffer penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations. the health care industry is required to comply with extensive and complex laws and regulations at the federal, state and local government levels relating to, among other things: billing and coding for services and properly handling overpayments; appropriateness and classification of level of care provided, including proper classification of inpatient admissions, observation services and outpatient care; relationships with physicians and other referral sources and referral recipients; necessity and adequacy of medical care; quality of medical equipment and services; qualifications of medical and support personnel; confidentiality, maintenance, data breach, identity theft and security issues associated with health-related and personal information and medical records; screening, stabilization and transfer of individuals who have emergency medical conditions; licensure, certification and enrollment with government programs; hospital rate or budget review; debt collection; 37 table of contents communications with patients and consumers; preparing and filing of cost reports; operating policies and procedures; activities regarding competitors; addition of facilities and services; and environmental protection. among these laws are the federal anti-kickback statute, the federal stark law, the fca and similar state laws. we have a variety of financial relationships with physicians and others who either refer or influence the referral of patients to our hospitals, other health care facilities and employed physicians or who are the recipients of referrals, and these laws govern those relationships. the oig has enacted safe harbor regulations that outline practices deemed protected from prosecution under the anti-kickback statute. while we endeavor to comply with the applicable safe harbors, certain of our current arrangements, including joint ventures and financial relationships with physicians and other referral sources and persons and entities to which we refer patients, do not qualify for safe harbor protection. failure to qualify for a safe harbor does not mean the arrangement necessarily violates the anti-kickback statute but may subject the arrangement to greater scrutiny. however, we cannot offer assurance that practices outside of a safe harbor will not be found to violate the anti-kickback statute. allegations of violations of the anti-kickback statute may be brought under the federal civil monetary penalty law, which requires a lower burden of proof than other fraud and abuse laws, including the anti-kickback statute. our financial relationships with referring physicians and their immediate family members must comply with the stark law by meeting an exception. we attempt to structure our relationships to meet an exception to the stark law, but the regulations implementing the exceptions are detailed and complex, and we cannot provide assurance that every relationship complies fully with the stark law. unlike the anti-kickback statute, failure to meet an exception under the stark law results in a violation of the stark law, even if such violation is technical in nature. additionally, if we violate the anti-kickback statute or stark law, or if we improperly bill for our services, we may be found to violate the fca, either under a suit brought by the government or by a private person under a qui tam , or whistleblower, suit. see item 1, business regulation and other factors. we also operate health care facilities in the united kingdom and have operations and commercial relationships with companies in other foreign jurisdictions and, as a result, are subject to certain u.s. and foreign laws applicable to businesses generally, including anti-corruption laws. the foreign corrupt practices act regulates u.s. companies in their dealings with foreign officials, prohibiting bribes and similar practices, and requires that they maintain records that fairly and accurately reflect transactions and appropriate internal accounting controls. in addition, the united kingdom bribery act has wide jurisdiction over certain activities that affect the united kingdom. a variety of state, national, foreign and international laws and regulations apply to the collection, use, retention, protection, security, disclosure, transfer and other processing of personal data. many foreign data privacy regulations (including the general data protection regulation (gdpr), which becomes effective in the european union on may 25, 2018) are more stringent than those in the united states. these laws and regulations are rapidly evolving and changing, and could have an adverse effect on our operations. companies obligations and requirements under these laws and regulations are subject to uncertainty in how they may be interpreted by government authorities and regulators. the costs of compliance with, and the other burdens imposed by, these and other laws or regulatory actions may increase our operational costs, result in interruptions or delays in the availability of systems and/or result in a patient volume decline. in the case of non-compliance with a material provision of the gdpr (such as non-adherence to the core principles of processing personal data), regulators 38 table of contents have the authority to levy a fine in an amount that is up to the greater of 20 million or 4% of global annual turnover in the prior year. if it is determined that non-compliance is related to a non-material provision (such as failure to comply with technical measures), regulators may impose a fine in an amount that is up to the greater of 10 million or 2% of the global annual turnover from the prior year. these administrative fines are discretionary and based, in each case, on a multi-factored approach. we may also face audits or investigations by one or more domestic or foreign government agencies relating to our compliance with these regulations. an adverse outcome under any such investigation or audit could result in liability, result in adverse publicity, and adversely affect our business. we engage in consumer debt collection for hca-affiliated hospitals and certain non-affiliated hospitals. the federal fair debt collection practices act and telephone consumer protection act restrict the methods that companies may use to contact and seek payment from consumer debtors regarding past due accounts. many states impose additional requirements on debt collection practices, and some of those requirements may be more stringent than the federal requirements. if we fail to comply with these or other applicable laws and regulations, we could be subject to liabilities, including civil penalties, the loss of our licenses to operate one or more facilities, exclusion of one or more facilities from participation in the medicare, medicaid and other federal and state health care programs and criminal penalties. we do not always have the benefit of significant regulatory or judicial interpretation of these laws and regulations. in the future, different interpretations or enforcement of, or amendment to, these or other laws and regulations could subject our current or past practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality or could require us to make changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel, services, capital expenditure programs and operating expenses. a determination that we have violated these or other laws, or the public announcement that we are being investigated for possible violations of these or other laws, could have a material, adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects, and our business reputation could suffer significantly. in addition, other legislation or regulations at the federal or state level may be adopted that adversely affect our business. we have been and could become the subject of government investigations, claims and litigation. health care companies are subject to numerous investigations by various government agencies. further, under the fca, private parties have the right to bring qui tam , or whistleblower, suits against companies that submit false claims for payments to, or improperly retain overpayments from, the government. some states have adopted similar state whistleblower and false claims provisions. certain of our individual facilities have received, and other facilities may receive, government inquiries from, and may be subject to investigation by, federal and state agencies. depending on whether the underlying conduct in these or future inquiries or investigations could be considered systemic, their resolution could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. government agencies and their agents, such as the macs, fiscal intermediaries and carriers, as well as the oig, cms and state medicaid programs, conduct audits of our health care operations. private third-party payers may conduct similar post-payment audits, and we also perform internal audits and monitoring. depending on the nature of the conduct found in such audits and whether the underlying conduct could be considered systemic, the resolution of these audits could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. cms contracts with racs on a contingency fee basis to conduct post-payment reviews to detect and correct improper payments in the fee-for-service medicare program. the health reform law expanded the rac program scope to include managed medicare plans and medicaid claims. rac denials are appealable; however, there are currently significant delays in the assignment of new medicare appeals to administrative law 39 table of contents judges, which negatively impacts our ability to appeal rac payment denials. in addition, cms employs mics to perform post-payment audits of medicaid claims and identify overpayments, and state medicaid agencies and other contractors have increased their review activities. should we be found out of compliance with any of these laws, regulations or programs, depending on the nature of the findings, our business, our financial position and our results of operations could be negatively impacted. changes to physician utilization practices and treatment methodologies, third-party payer controls designed to reduce inpatient services or surgical procedures and other factors outside our control that impact demand for medical services may reduce our revenues. controls imposed by medicare, managed medicare, medicaid, managed medicaid and private third-party payers designed to reduce admissions, intensity of services, surgical volumes and lengths of stay, in some instances referred to as utilization review, have affected and are expected to continue to affect our facilities. utilization review entails the review of the admission and course of treatment of a patient by third-party payers. the medicare program also issues national or local coverage determinations that restrict the circumstances under which medicare pays for certain services. inpatient utilization, average lengths of stay and occupancy rates continue to be negatively affected by third-party payers preadmission authorization requirements, coverage restrictions, utilization review and by pressure to maximize outpatient and alternative health care delivery services for less acutely ill patients. efforts to impose more stringent cost controls are expected to continue. additionally, trends in physician treatment protocols and managed care health plan design, such as health plans that shift increased costs and accountability for care to patients, could reduce our surgical volumes and admissions in favor of lower intensity and lower cost treatment methodologies. volume, admission and case-mix trends may be impacted by other factors beyond our control, such as changes in volume of certain high acuity services, variations in the prevalence and severity of outbreaks of influenza and other illnesses and medical conditions, seasonal and severe weather conditions, changes in treatment regimens and medical technology and other advances. these factors may reduce the demand for services we offer and decrease the reimbursement that we receive. significant limits on the scope of services reimbursed, cost controls, changes to physician utilization practices, treatment methodologies, reimbursement rates and fees and other factors beyond our control could have a material, adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. our overall business results may suffer during periods of general economic weakness. budget deficits at federal, state and local government entities have had a negative impact on spending, and may continue to negatively impact spending, for health and human service programs, including medicare, medicaid and similar programs, which represent significant third-party payer sources for our hospitals. we anticipate that the federal deficit, the growing magnitude of medicare expenditures and the aging of the united states population will continue to place pressure on government health care programs. other risks we face during periods of economic weakness and high unemployment include potential declines in the population covered under managed care agreements, increased patient decisions to postpone or cancel elective and nonemergency health care procedures (including delaying surgical procedures), potential increases in the uninsured and underinsured populations, increased adoption of health plan structures that shift financial responsibility to patients and further difficulties in collecting patient receivables for copayment and deductible receivables. the industry trend toward value-based purchasing may negatively impact our revenues. there is a trend in the health care industry toward value-based purchasing of health care services. these value-based purchasing programs include both public reporting of quality data and preventable adverse events tied to the quality and efficiency of care provided by facilities. governmental programs including medicare currently require hospitals to report certain quality data to receive full reimbursement updates. in addition, 40 table of contents medicare does not reimburse for care related to certain preventable adverse events (also called never events ). the health reform law also prohibits the use of federal funds under the medicaid program to reimburse providers for medical assistance provided to treat hacs. the 25% of hospitals with the worst risk-adjusted hac rates in the designated performance period receive a 1% reduction in their inpatient pps medicare payments. hospitals with excess readmission rates for conditions designated by hhs will receive a reduction in their inpatient pps operating medicare payments for all medicare inpatient discharges, not just discharges relating to the conditions subject to the excess readmission standard. the reduction in payments to hospitals with excess readmissions can be up to 3% of a hospital base payments. hhs has implemented a value-based purchasing program for inpatient hospital services that reduces inpatient hospital payments for all discharges by 2% in federal fiscal year 2017 and for subsequent years. hhs pools the amount collected from these reductions to fund payments to reward hospitals that meet or exceed certain quality performance standards established by hhs. hhs estimates that $1.9 billion in value-based incentive payments will be available to hospitals in federal fiscal year 2018 based on achievement (relative to other hospitals) and improvement (relative to the hospital own past performance). hospitals that meet or exceed the quality performance standards will receive greater reimbursement under the value-based purchasing program than they would have otherwise. cms has developed several alternative payment models that are intended to reduce costs and improve quality of care for medicare beneficiaries. examples of alternative payment models include bundled payment models in which, depending on whether overall cms spending per episode exceeds or falls below a target specified by cms and whether quality standards are met, hospitals may receive supplemental medicare payments or owe repayments to cms. generally, participation in bundled payment programs is voluntary, but cms requires hospitals in selected markets to participate in a bundled payment initiative for orthopedic services. participation in mandatory or voluntary demonstration projects, particularly demonstrations with the potential to affect payment, may negatively impact our results of operations. many large private third-party payers currently require hospitals to report quality data, and several private third-party payers do not reimburse hospitals for certain preventable adverse events. further, we have implemented a policy pursuant to which we do not bill patients or third-party payers for fees or expenses incurred due to certain preventable adverse events. we expect value-based purchasing programs, including programs that condition reimbursement on patient outcome measures, to become more common and to involve a higher percentage of reimbursement amounts. cms has announced aggressive goals for adopting alternative payment models, which may include additional bundled payment programs, and private third-party payers may also transition away from fee-for-service payment models. we are unable at this time to predict our future payments or whether we will be subject to payment reductions under these programs or how this trend will affect our results of operations, but it could negatively impact our revenues. our operations could be impaired by a failure of our information systems. the performance of our information systems is critical to our business operations. in addition to our shared services initiatives, our information systems are essential to a number of critical areas of our operations, including: accounting and financial reporting; billing and collecting accounts; coding and compliance; clinical systems; medical records and document storage; 41 table of contents inventory management; negotiating, pricing and administering managed care contracts and supply contracts; and monitoring quality of care and collecting data on quality measures necessary for full medicare payment updates. information systems may be vulnerable to damage from a variety of sources, including telecommunications or network failures, human acts and natural disasters. we have taken precautionary measures to prevent unanticipated problems that could affect our information systems. nevertheless, we may experience system failures. the occurrence of any system failure could result in interruptions, delays, the loss or corruption of data and cessations or interruptions in the availability of systems, all of which could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations and harm our business reputation. a cybersecurity incident could result in the compromise of a facility, confidential data or critical data systems and give rise to potential harm to patients, remediation and other expenses, expose us to liability under hipaa, consumer protection laws, or other common law theories, subject us to litigation and foreign, federal and state governmental inquiries, damage our reputation, and otherwise be disruptive to our business. we, independently and through third-party vendors, collect and store on our networks sensitive information, including intellectual property, proprietary business information and personally identifiable information of our patients and employees. in addition, we have made significant investments in technology to adopt and utilize ehr and to become meaningful users of health information technology. the secure maintenance of this information and technology is critical to our business operations. we have implemented multiple layers of security measures to protect the confidentiality, integrity and availability of this data and the systems and devices that store and transmit such data. we utilize current security technologies, and our defenses are monitored and routinely tested internally and by external parties. despite these efforts, threats from malicious persons and groups, new vulnerabilities and advanced new attacks against information systems create risk of cybersecurity incidents. we are regularly the target of attempted cybersecurity and other threats that could have a security impact. there can be no assurance that we or our third-party vendors will not be subject to cybersecurity incidents that bypass our security measures, impact the integrity, availability or privacy of personal health information or other data subject to privacy laws or disrupt our information systems, devices or business, including our ability to provide various health care services. as a result, cybersecurity, physical security and the continued development and enhancement of our controls, processes and practices designed to protect our facilities, information systems and data from attack, damage or unauthorized access remain a priority for us. as cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any cybersecurity vulnerabilities. the occurrence of any of these events could result in (i) harm to patients; (ii) business interruptions and delays; (iii) the loss, misappropriation, corruption or unauthorized access of data; (iv) litigation and potential liability under privacy, security and consumer protection laws or other applicable laws; (v) reputational damage and (vi) foreign, federal and state governmental inquiries, any of which could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations and harm our business reputation. if we fail to continue to demonstrate meaningful use of certified electronic health record systems, our operations could be adversely affected. eligible hospitals and eligible professionals that fail to demonstrate meaningful use of certified ehr technology in an applicable prior reporting period are subject to reduced payments from medicare. failure to continue to demonstrate meaningful use of certified ehr technology could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. the emergence and effects related to a pandemic, epidemic or outbreak of an infectious disease could adversely affect our operations. if a pandemic, epidemic, outbreak of an infectious disease or other public health crisis were to occur in an area in which we operate, our operations could be adversely affected. such a crisis could diminish the public trust 42 table of contents in health care facilities, especially hospitals that fail to accurately or timely diagnose, or are treating (or have treated) patients affected by infectious diseases. if any of our facilities were involved, or perceived as being involved, in treating patients from such an infectious disease, patients might cancel elective procedures or fail to seek needed care at our facilities. further, a pandemic, epidemic or outbreak might adversely affect our operations by causing a temporary shutdown or diversion of patients, by disrupting or delaying production and delivery of materials and products in the supply chain or by causing staffing shortages in our facilities. we have disaster plans in place and operate pursuant to infectious disease protocols, but the potential emergence of a pandemic, epidemic or outbreak is difficult to predict and could adversely affect our operations. state efforts to regulate the construction or expansion of health care facilities could impair our ability to operate and expand our operations. some states, particularly in the eastern part of the country, require health care providers to obtain prior approval, often known as a con, for the purchase, construction or expansion of health care facilities, to make certain capital expenditures or to make changes in services or bed capacity. in giving approval, these states consider the need for additional or expanded health care facilities or services. we currently operate health care facilities in a number of states with con laws or that require other types of approvals for the establishment or expansion of certain facility types or services. the failure to obtain any required con or other required approval could impair our ability to operate or expand operations. any such failure could, in turn, adversely affect our ability to attract patients and physicians to our facilities and grow our revenues, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. we may encounter difficulty acquiring hospitals and other health care businesses, encounter challenges integrating the operations of acquired hospitals and other health care businesses and become liable for unknown or contingent liabilities as a result of acquisitions. a component of our business strategy is acquiring hospitals and other health care businesses. we may encounter difficulty acquiring new facilities or other businesses as a result of competition from other purchasers that may be willing to pay purchase prices that are higher than we believe are reasonable. some states require cons in order to acquire a hospital or other facility or to expand facilities or services. in addition, the acquisition of health care facilities often involves licensure approvals or reviews and complex change of ownership processes for medicare and other payers. further, many states have laws that restrict the conversion or sale of not-for-profit hospitals to for-profit entities. these laws may require prior approval from the state attorney general, advance notification of the attorney general or other regulators and community involvement. attorneys general in states without specific requirements may exercise broad discretionary authority over transactions involving the sale of not-for-profits under their general obligations to protect the use of charitable assets. these conversion legislative and administrative efforts often focus on the appropriate valuation of the assets divested and the use of the proceeds of the sale by the non-profit seller and may include consideration of commitments for capital improvements and charity care by the purchaser. also, the increasingly challenging regulatory and enforcement environment may negatively impact our ability to acquire health care businesses if they are found to have material unresolved compliance issues, such as repayment obligations. resolving compliance issues as well as completion of oversight, review or approval processes could seriously delay or even prevent our ability to acquire hospitals or other businesses and increase our acquisition costs. we may be unable to timely and effectively integrate hospitals and other businesses that we acquire with our ongoing operations, or we may experience delays implementing operating procedures and systems. hospitals and other health care businesses that we acquire may have unknown or contingent liabilities, including liabilities for failure to comply with health care and other laws and regulations, medical and general professional liabilities, workers compensation liabilities and tax liabilities. although we typically exclude significant liabilities from our acquisition transactions and seek indemnification from the sellers for these matters, we could experience difficulty enforcing those obligations, experience liability in excess of any indemnification obtained or otherwise incur material liabilities for the pre-acquisition conduct of acquired businesses. such liabilities and related legal or other costs could harm our business and results of operations. 43 table of contents our facilities are heavily concentrated in florida and texas, which makes us sensitive to regulatory, economic, environmental and competitive conditions and changes in those states. we operated 179 hospitals at december 31, 2017, and 91 of those hospitals are located in florida and texas. our florida and texas facilities combined revenues represented approximately 48% of our consolidated revenues for the year ended december 31, 2017. this concentration makes us particularly sensitive to regulatory, economic, environmental and competitive conditions and changes in those states. any material change in the current payment programs or regulatory, economic, environmental or competitive conditions in those states could have a disproportionate effect on our overall business results. in addition, our hospitals in florida, texas and other coastal states are located in hurricane-prone areas. in the past, hurricanes have had a disruptive effect on the operations of our hospitals in florida, texas and other coastal states and the patient populations in those states. our business activities could be harmed by a particularly active hurricane season or even a single storm, and the property insurance we obtain may not be adequate to cover losses from future hurricanes or other natural disasters. we may be subject to liabilities from claims by taxing authorities. we are subject to examination by federal, state and foreign taxing authorities. management believes hca healthcare, inc., its predecessors, subsidiaries and affiliates properly reported taxable income and paid taxes in accordance with applicable laws and agreements established with the irs, state and foreign taxing authorities and final resolution of any disputes will not have a material, adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. however, if payments due upon final resolution of any issues exceed our recorded estimates, such resolutions could have a material, adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. we may be subject to liabilities from claims brought against our facilities. we are subject to litigation relating to our business practices, including claims and legal actions by patients and others in the ordinary course of business alleging malpractice, product liability or other legal theories. many of these actions seek large sums of money as damages and involve significant defense costs. we insure a portion of our professional liability risks through a 100% owned subsidiary. management believes our reserves for self-insured retentions and insurance coverage are sufficient to cover insured claims arising out of the operation of our facilities. our 100% owned liability insurance subsidiary has entered into certain reinsurance contracts; however, the subsidiary remains liable to the extent that the reinsurers do not meet their obligations under the reinsurance contracts. if payments for claims exceed actuarially determined estimates, are not covered by insurance, or reinsurers, if any, fail to meet their obligations, our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected. we are exposed to market risk related to changes in the market values of securities and interest rate changes. we are exposed to market risk related to changes in market values of securities. the investment securities of our 100% owned insurance subsidiaries were $472 million at december 31, 2017. these investments are carried at fair value, with changes in unrealized gains and losses being recorded as adjustments to other comprehensive income. at december 31, 2017, we had a net unrealized gain of $10 million on the insurance subsidiaries investment securities. we are exposed to market risk related to market illiquidity. investment securities of our 100% owned insurance subsidiaries could be impaired by the inability to access the capital markets. should the 100% owned insurance subsidiaries require significant amounts of cash in excess of normal cash requirements to pay claims and other expenses on short notice, we may have difficulty selling these investments in a timely manner or be forced to sell them at a price less than what we might otherwise have been able to in a normal market environment. we may be required to recognize other-than-temporary impairments on long-term investments in future periods should issuers default on interest payments or should the fair market valuations of the securities deteriorate due to ratings downgrades or other issue specific factors. we are also exposed to market risk related to changes in interest rates, and we periodically enter into interest rate swap agreements to manage our exposure to these fluctuations. our interest rate swap agreements involve the exchange of fixed and variable rate interest payments between two parties, based on common 44 table of contents notional principal amounts and maturity dates. the notional amounts of the swap agreements represent balances used to calculate the exchange of cash flows and are not our assets or liabilities. there can be no assurance that we will continue to pay dividends. in january 2018, the board of directors initiated a cash dividend program under which the company expects to pay a regular quarterly cash dividend. the board declared the first quarterly cash dividend of $0.35 per share of common stock to be paid to stockholders of record as of the close of business on march 1, 2018, with a payment date of march 30, 2018. the declaration, amount and timing of such dividends are subject to capital availability and determinations by our board of directors that cash dividends are in the best interest of our stockholders and are in compliance with all respective laws and our agreements applicable to the declaration and payment of cash dividends. our ability to pay dividends will depend upon, among other factors, our cash flows from operations, our available capital and potential future capital requirements for strategic transactions, including acquisitions, debt service requirements, share repurchases and investing in our existing markets as well as our results of operations, financial condition and other factors beyond our control that our board of directors may deem relevant. a reduction in or elimination of our dividend payments could have a negative effect on our stock price. uncertainties in the interpretation and application of the 2017 tax cuts and jobs act could materially affect our tax obligations and effective tax rate. the 2017 tax cuts and jobs act (the tax act ) was enacted on december 22, 2017. the tax act significantly revises u.s. corporate income taxes, including lowering the statutory corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% beginning in 2018 and imposing a mandatory one-time transition tax on undistributed foreign earnings. due to the complexity and uncertainty regarding numerous provisions of the tax act, we have not completed our accounting for its effects. however, we have made reasonable estimates and recorded provisional amounts in our financial statements as of december 31, 2017. as we complete our analysis of the tax act, collect and prepare necessary data, and interpret any additional guidance issued by federal and state taxing authorities or other standard-setting bodies, we may make adjustments to the provisional amounts and record additional amounts for those federal, state, and foreign tax assets and liabilities for which we were unable to make reasonable estimates as of december 31, 2017. any adjustments or additional amounts recorded may materially impact our provision for income taxes and effective tax rate in the periods in which they are made. certain of our investors may continue to have influence over us. on november 17, 2006, hca inc. was acquired by a private investor group, including affiliates of hca founder, dr. thomas f. frist, jr. and certain other investors. through their investment in hercules holding ii and other holdings, certain of the frist-affiliated investors continue to hold a significant interest in our outstanding common stock (approximately 20% as of january 31, 2018). in addition, pursuant to a shareholders agreement we entered into with hercules holding ii and the frist-affiliated investors, certain representatives of these investors have the continued right to nominate certain of the members of our board of directors. as a result, certain of these investors potentially have the ability to influence our decisions to enter into corporate transactions (and the terms thereof) and prevent changes in the composition of our board of directors and any transaction that requires stockholder approval. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 75 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information with respect to this item is provided under the caption market risk under item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations.risk factors 31 risk factors if any of the events discussed in the following risk factors were to occur, our business, financial position, results of operations, cash flows or prospects could be materially, adversely affected. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known, or currently deemed immaterial, may also constrain our business and operations. our substantial leverage could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry, expose us to interest rate risk to the extent of our variable rate debt and prevent us from meeting our obligations. we are highly leveraged. as of december 31, 2018, our total indebtedness was $32.821 billion. as of december 31, 2018, we had availability of $1.983 billion under our senior secured revolving credit facility and $710 million under our asset-based revolving credit facility, after giving effect to letters of credit and borrowing base limitations. our high degree of leverage could have important consequences, including: increasing our vulnerability to downturns or adverse changes in general economic, industry or competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulations; requiring a substantial portion of cash flows from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, therefore reducing our ability to use our cash flows to fund our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities; exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates to the extent that our existing unhedged borrowings are at variable rates of interest or we seek to refinance our debt in a rising rate environment; limiting our ability to make strategic acquisitions or causing us to make nonstrategic divestitures; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, share repurchases, dividends, product or service line development, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who are less highly leveraged. we and our subsidiaries have the ability to incur additional indebtedness in the future, subject to the restrictions contained in our senior secured credit facilities and the indentures governing our outstanding notes. if new indebtedness is added to our current debt levels, interest rates and the related risks that we now face could intensify. we may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may not be able to refinance our indebtedness on favorable terms. if we are unable to do so, we may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. we cannot assure you we will maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. in addition, we conduct our operations through our subsidiaries. accordingly, repayment of our indebtedness is dependent on the generation of cash flows by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise. our subsidiaries may not be able to, or may not be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness. each subsidiary is a distinct legal entity, and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. 31 table of contents index to financial statements we may find it necessary or prudent to refinance our outstanding indebtedness, the terms of which may not be favorable to us. our ability to refinance our indebtedness on favorable terms, or at all, is directly affected by the then current global economic and financial conditions which affect the availability of debt financing and the rates at which such financing is available. in addition, our ability to incur secured indebtedness (which would generally enable us to achieve better pricing than the incurrence of unsecured indebtedness) depends in part on the value of our assets, which depends, in turn, on the strength of our cash flows and results of operations, and on economic and market conditions and other factors. if our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations or we are unable to refinance our indebtedness, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure our indebtedness. these alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. if our operating results and available cash are insufficient to meet our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. we may not be able to consummate those dispositions, or the proceeds from the dispositions may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. our debt agreements contain restrictions that limit our flexibility in operating our business. our senior secured credit facilities and, to a lesser extent, the indentures governing our outstanding notes contain various covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions. these covenants limit our and certain of our subsidiaries ability to, among other things: incur additional indebtedness or issue certain preferred shares; pay dividends on, repurchase or make distributions in respect of our capital stock or make other restricted payments; make certain investments; sell or transfer assets; create liens; consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and enter into certain transactions with our affiliates. under our asset-based revolving credit facility, availability is subject to a borrowing base of 85% of eligible accounts receivable less customary reserves, with any reduction in the borrowing base commensurately reducing our ability to access this facility as a source of liquidity. in addition, under the asset-based revolving credit facility, when (and for as long as) the combined availability under our asset-based revolving credit facility and our senior secured revolving credit facility is less than a specified amount for a certain period of time or, if a payment or bankruptcy event of default has occurred and is continuing, funds deposited into any of our depository accounts will be transferred on a daily basis into a blocked account with the administrative agent and applied to prepay loans under the asset-based revolving credit facility and to collateralize letters of credit issued thereunder. under our senior secured credit facilities, we are required to satisfy and maintain specified financial ratios. our ability to meet those financial ratios can be affected by events beyond our control, and there can be no assurance we will continue to meet those ratios. a breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under both the cash flow credit facility and the asset-based revolving credit facility. upon the occurrence of an event of default under these senior secured credit facilities, the lenders thereunder could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the senior secured credit facilities to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit, which would also result in an event of default under a significant 32 table of contents index to financial statements portion of our outstanding indebtedness. if we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under the senior secured credit facilities could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure such indebtedness. we have pledged a significant portion of our assets under our senior secured credit facilities and that collateral is also pledged as collateral under our first lien notes. if any of the lenders under the senior secured credit facilities accelerate the repayment of borrowings, there can be no assurance there will be sufficient assets to repay the senior secured credit facilities, the first lien notes and our other indebtedness. our hospitals face competition for patients from other hospitals and health care providers. the health care business is highly competitive, and competition among hospitals and other health care providers for patients has intensified in recent years. generally, other hospitals in the communities we serve provide services similar to those offered by our hospitals. in addition, cms publicizes on its hospital compare website performance data related to quality measures and data on patient satisfaction surveys that hospitals submit in connection with their medicare reimbursement. federal law provides for the future expansion of the number of quality measures that must be reported. additional quality measures and trends toward clinical transparency may have an unanticipated impact on our competitive position and patient volumes. further, cms requires every medicare-participating hospital to establish and update annually a public listing online of the hospital standard charges for items and services. if any of our hospitals achieve poor results (or results that are lower than our competitors) on these quality measures or on patient satisfaction surveys or if our standard charges are or are perceived to be higher than our competitors, our patient volumes could decline. the number of freestanding specialty hospitals, surgery centers, emergency departments, urgent care centers and diagnostic and imaging centers in the geographic areas in which we operate has increased. many individuals are seeking a broader range of services at outpatient facilities as a result of the growing availability of stand-alone outpatient healthcare facilities, the increase in payer reimbursement policies that restrict inpatient coverage and the increase in the services that can be provided on an outpatient basis, including high margin services. consequently, most of our hospitals operate in a highly competitive environment, which may put pressure on our pricing, ability to contract with third-party payers and the company strategy for volume growth. some of the facilities that compete with our hospitals are physician-owned or are owned by governmental agencies or not-for-profit corporations supported by endowments, charitable contributions and/or tax revenues and can finance capital expenditures and operations on a tax-exempt basis. recent consolidations of not-for-profit hospital entities may intensify this competitive pressure. there is also increasing consolidation in the third-party payer industry, including vertical integration efforts among third-party payers and health care providers, and increasing efforts by payers to influence or direct the patient choice of provider by the use of narrow networks or other strategies. health care industry participants are increasingly implementing physician alignment strategies, such as employing physicians, acquiring physician practice groups and participating in acos or other clinical integration models. other industry participants, such as large employer groups and their affiliates, may intensify competitive pressure and affect the industry in ways that are difficult to predict. our hospitals compete with specialty hospitals and with both our own and unaffiliated freestanding ascs and other outpatient providers for market share in certain high margin services and for quality physicians and personnel. if ascs and other outpatient providers are better able to compete in this environment than our hospitals, our hospitals may experience a decline in patient volume, and we may experience a decrease in margin, even if those patients use our providers. in states that do not require a con or other type of approval for the purchase, construction or expansion of health care facilities or services, competition in the form of new services, facilities and capital spending is more prevalent. further, if our competitors are better able to attract patients, make capital expenditures and maintain modern and technologically upgraded facilities and equipment, recruit physicians, expand services or obtain favorable third-party payer contracts at their facilities than our hospitals and other providers, we may experience an overall decline in patient volume. see item 1, business competition. 33 table of contents index to financial statements a deterioration in the collectability of uninsured and patient due accounts could adversely affect our results of operations. the primary collection risks for our accounts receivable relate to the uninsured patient accounts and patient accounts for which the primary third-party payer has paid the amounts covered by the applicable agreement, but patient responsibility amounts (exclusions, deductibles and copayments) remain outstanding. medicare reimburses hospitals for 65% of eligible medicare bad debts. to be eligible for reimbursement, the amounts claimed must meet certain criteria, including that the debt is related to unpaid deductible or coinsurance amounts and that the hospital first attempted to collect the fees from the medicare beneficiary. the estimates for implicit price concessions are based upon management assessment of historical write-offs and expected net collections, business and economic conditions, trends in federal and state governmental and private employer health care coverage, the rate of growth in uninsured patient admissions and other collection indicators. at december 31, 2018, estimated implicit price concessions of $6.280 billion had been recorded as reductions to our accounts receivable to enable us to record our revenues and accounts receivable at the estimated amounts we expect to collect. total uncompensated care increased from $20.455 billion for 2016 to $23.420 billion for 2017 and to $26.757 billion for 2018. any increase in the amount or deterioration in the collectability of uninsured accounts receivable will adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations. our facilities may experience growth in total uncompensated care as a result of a number of factors, including conditions impacting the overall economy and high unemployment. effective january 2019, congress eliminated the financial penalty associated with the health reform law individual mandate. further, final rules issued in 2018 expand the availability of association health plans and allow the sale of short-term, limited-duration health plans, neither of which are required to cover all of the essential health benefits mandated by the health reform law. these changes may impact the number of individuals that elect to obtain public or private health insurance or the scope of such coverage, if purchased. the presidential administration and a number of members of congress continue to make other efforts to repeal or significantly change the health reform law. even if the health reform law remains in effect, we will continue to experience collectability issues and provide uninsured discounts and charity care for individuals residing in states that choose not to implement the medicaid expansion, for undocumented aliens who are not permitted to enroll in an exchange or government health care programs and for certain others who may not have insurance coverage. further, some patients may choose to enroll in lower cost medicaid plans or other health insurance plans with lower reimbursement levels. we may also be adversely affected by the growth in patient responsibility accounts as a result of increases in the adoption of health plan structures that shift greater responsibility for care to individuals through greater exclusions and copayment and deductible amounts. changes in government health care programs may adversely affect our revenues. a significant portion of our patient volume is derived from government health care programs, principally medicare and medicaid. specifically, we derived 40.9% of our revenues from the medicare and medicaid programs in 2018. changes in government health care programs, including medicaid waiver programs, may reduce the reimbursement we receive and could adversely affect our business and results of operations. the health reform law has made significant changes to medicare and medicaid, and future health reform efforts or further efforts to repeal or significantly change the health reform law may impact these programs. in recent years, legislative and regulatory changes have resulted in limitations on and, in some cases, reductions in levels of payments to health care providers for certain services under the medicare program. congress has established automatic spending reductions that extend through 2027. however, the percentage reduction for medicare may not be more than 2% for a fiscal year, with a uniform percentage reduction across all medicare programs. we are unable to predict what other deficit reduction initiatives may be proposed by congress. these reductions are in addition to reductions mandated by the health reform law and other laws. further, from time to time, cms revises the reimbursement systems used to reimburse health care providers, 34 table of contents index to financial statements including changes to the ms-drg system and other payment systems, which may result in reduced medicare payments. for example, under a site neutrality policy, certain items and services provided by off-campus provider-based departments that were formerly paid under the outpatient pps are now paid under the physician fee schedule, subject to certain exceptions that are being phased out over the next two years. cms is also considering proposals to reduce drug costs. cms may implement changes to how items or services are reimbursed that result in payment reductions for other services. because most states must operate with balanced budgets and because the medicaid program is often a state largest program, some states have enacted or may consider enacting legislation designed to reduce their medicaid expenditures. further, many states have also adopted, or are considering, legislation designed to reduce coverage, enroll medicaid recipients in managed care programs, dis-enroll medicaid recipients who fail to meet work requirements and/or impose additional taxes on hospitals to help finance or expand the states medicaid systems. periods of economic weakness may increase the budgetary pressures on many states, and these budgetary pressures may result in decreased spending, or decreased spending growth, for medicaid programs and the children health insurance program in many states. some states that provide medicaid supplemental payments are reviewing these programs or have filed waiver requests with cms to replace these programs, and cms has performed and continues to perform compliance reviews of some states programs, which could result in medicaid supplemental payments being reduced or eliminated. for example, in december 2017, cms announced that it will phase out funding for designated state health programs under certain types of medicaid waivers. further, legislation and administrative actions at the federal level may significantly alter the funding for, or structure of, the medicaid program. for example, from time to time, congress considers proposals to restructure the medicaid program to involve block grants that would be administered by the states. in some cases, private third-party payers rely on all or portions of medicare payment systems to determine payment rates. changes to government health care programs that reduce payments under these programs may negatively impact payments from private third-party payers. current or future health care reform and deficit reduction efforts, changes in laws or regulations regarding government health care programs, other changes in the administration of government health care programs and changes by private third-party payers in response to health care reform and other changes to government health care programs could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. our results of operations may be adversely affected by health care reform efforts, particularly court challenges to, and efforts to repeal, replace or otherwise significantly change the health reform law. we are unable to predict what, if any, and when such changes will be made in the future. in recent years, congress and certain state legislatures have introduced and passed a large number of proposals and legislation designed to make major changes in the health care system, including changes intended to increase access to health insurance. the health reform law is the most prominent of these efforts and represents a significant shift in the way health care services are delivered, covered, and reimbursed. although it has reduced our medicare and medicaid reimbursement, the health reform law has also reduced the number of uninsured patients to whom we provide health care services, primarily through the exchanges and medicaid expansion. however, effective january 2019, congress eliminated the financial penalty associated with the individual mandate. additionally, final rules issued in 2018 expand the availability of association health plans and allow the sale of short-term, limited-duration health plans, neither of which are required to cover all of the essential health benefits mandated by the health reform law. these developments may impact the number of individuals that elect to obtain public or private health insurance or the scope of such coverage, if purchased. in december 2018, as a result of the individual mandate penalty being eliminated, the united states district court for the northern district of texas found that the entire health reform law was unconstitutional, but the law remains in place pending appeal. if the district court ruling is upheld on appeal, it could have an adverse effect on the company results of operations. in addition, the presidential administration and a number of 35 table of contents index to financial statements members of congress continue to attempt to repeal, amend or replace the law, or make significant changes to its implementation, and the law remains subject to court challenges. cms has indicated that it intends to increase flexibility in state medicaid programs, including by expanding the scope of waivers under which states may implement medicaid expansion provisions, impose different eligibility or enrollment restrictions, or otherwise implement programs that vary from federal standards. there is uncertainty regarding whether, when, and how the health reform law may be further changed, what alternative provisions, if any, will be enacted, the timing of enactment and implementation of alternative provisions, the impact of alternative provisions on health care industry participants, the ultimate outcome of court challenges and how the law will be interpreted and implemented. changes by congress or government agencies could eliminate or alter provisions beneficial to us, while leaving in place provisions reducing our reimbursement or otherwise negatively impacting our business. members of congress have also proposed measures that would expand government-sponsored coverage, including single-payer proposals. other industry participants, such as private payers and large employer groups and their affiliates, may also introduce financial or delivery system reforms. we are unable to predict the nature and success of such initiatives. health care reform initiatives, including changes to or repeal or invalidation of the health reform law, may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flow, capital resources, and liquidity. if our volume of patients with private health insurance coverage declines or we are unable to retain and negotiate favorable contracts with private third-party payers, including managed care plans, our revenues may be reduced. private third-party payers, including hmos, ppos and other managed care plans, typically reimburse health care providers at a higher rate than medicare, medicaid or other government health care programs. reimbursement rates are set forth by contract when our facilities are in-network, and payers utilize plan structures to encourage or require the use of in-network providers. revenues derived from private third-party payers (domestic only) accounted for 52.4%, 53.5% and 53.7% of our revenues for 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. as a result, our ability to maintain or increase patient volumes covered by private third-party payers and to maintain and obtain favorable contracts with private third-party payers significantly affects the revenues and operating results of our facilities. private third-party payers, including managed care plans, continue to demand discounted fee structures, and the ongoing trend toward consolidation among payers tends to increase their bargaining power over fee structures. payers may utilize plan structures such as narrow networks and tiered networks that limit beneficiary provider choices or impose significantly higher cost sharing obligations when care is obtained from providers in a disfavored tier. other health care providers may impact our ability to enter into managed care contracts or negotiate increases in our reimbursement and other favorable terms and conditions. for example, some of our competitors may negotiate exclusivity provisions with managed care plans or otherwise restrict the ability of managed care plans to contract with us. in addition to increasing negotiating leverage of private third-party payers, alignment efforts between third-party payers and health care providers may also result in other competitive advantages, such as greater access to performance and pricing data. our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to retain and renew our third-party payer contracts and enter into new contracts on terms favorable to us. cost-reduction strategies by large employer groups and their affiliates, such as directly contracting with a limited number of providers, may also limit our ability to negotiate favorable terms in our contracts and otherwise intensify competitive pressure. it is not clear what impact, if any, future health reform efforts or the repeal of, or further changes to, the health reform law will have on our ability to negotiate reimbursement increases and participate in third-party payer networks on favorable terms. if we are unable to retain and negotiate favorable contracts with third-party payers or experience reductions in payment increases or amounts received from third-party payers, our revenues may be reduced. our performance depends on our ability to recruit and retain quality physicians. the success of our hospitals depends in part on the number and quality of the physicians on the medical staffs of our hospitals, the admitting and utilization practices of those physicians, maintaining good relations with 36 table of contents index to financial statements those physicians and controlling costs related to the employment of physicians. although we employ some physicians, physicians are often not employees of the hospitals at which they practice, and, in many of the markets we serve, most physicians have admitting privileges at other hospitals in addition to our hospitals. we continue to face increasing competition to recruit physicians. such physicians may terminate their affiliation with our hospitals at any time. we may face increased challenges in this area as the physician population reaches retirement age, especially if there is a shortage of physicians willing and able to provide comparable services. if we are unable to provide adequate support personnel or technologically advanced equipment and hospital facilities that meet the needs of those physicians and their patients, they may be discouraged from referring patients to our facilities, admissions may decrease and our operating performance may decline. our hospitals face competition for staffing, which may increase labor costs. our operations are dependent on the efforts, abilities and experience of our management and medical support personnel, such as nurses, pharmacists and lab technicians, as well as our physicians. we compete with other health care providers in recruiting and retaining qualified management and support personnel responsible for the daily operations of each of our hospitals, including nurses and other nonphysician health care professionals. in some markets, the availability of nurses and other medical support personnel has been a significant operating issue to health care providers. we may be required to continue to enhance wages and benefits to recruit and retain nurses and other medical support personnel or to hire more expensive temporary or contract personnel. as a result, our labor costs could increase. we also depend on the available labor pool of semi-skilled and unskilled employees in each of the markets in which we operate. recent changes in federal labor laws and the nlrb modification of its election procedures could increase the likelihood of employee unionization attempts. to the extent a significant portion of our employee base unionizes, it is possible our labor costs could increase materially. when negotiating collective bargaining agreements with unions, whether such agreements are renewals or first contracts, there is the possibility that strikes could occur during the negotiation process, and our continued operation during any strikes could increase our labor costs. in addition, the states in which we operate could adopt mandatory nurse-staffing ratios or could reduce mandatory nurse staffing ratios already in place. state-mandated nurse-staffing ratios could significantly affect labor costs and have an adverse impact on revenues if we are required to limit admissions in order to meet the required ratios. if our labor costs increase, we may not be able to raise rates to offset these increased costs. because a significant percentage of our revenues consists of fixed, prospective payments, our ability to pass along increased labor costs is constrained. our failure to recruit and retain qualified management, nurses and other medical support personnel, or to control labor costs, could have a material, adverse effect on our results of operations. we may be unable to attract, hire, and retain a highly qualified and diverse workforce, including key management. the talents and efforts of our employees, particularly our key management, are vital to our success. our management team has significant industry experience and would be difficult to replace. in addition, institutional knowledge may be lost in any potential managerial transition. we may be unable to retain them or to attract other highly qualified employees, particularly if we do not offer employment terms that are competitive with the rest of the labor market. failure to attract, hire, develop, motivate, and retain highly qualified and diverse employee talent, or failure to develop and implement an adequate succession plan for the management team, could disrupt our operations and adversely affect our business and our future success. 37 table of contents index to financial statements if we fail to comply with extensive laws and government regulations, we could suffer penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations. the health care industry is required to comply with extensive and complex laws and regulations at the federal, state and local government levels relating to, among other things: billing and coding for services and properly handling overpayments; appropriateness and classification of level of care provided, including proper classification of inpatient admissions, observation services and outpatient care; relationships with physicians and other referral sources and referral recipients; necessity and adequacy of medical care; quality of medical equipment and services; qualifications of medical and support personnel; confidentiality, maintenance, data breach, identity theft and security issues associated with health-related and personal information and medical records; screening, stabilization and transfer of individuals who have emergency medical conditions; licensure, certification and enrollment with government programs; hospital rate or budget review; debt collection, limits on balance billing and billing for out of network services; communications with patients and consumers; preparing and filing of cost reports; operating policies and procedures; activities regarding competitors; addition of facilities and services; and environmental protection. among these laws are the federal anti-kickback statute, the federal stark law, the fca and similar state laws. we have a variety of financial relationships with physicians and others who either refer or influence the referral of patients to our hospitals, other health care facilities and employed physicians or who are the recipients of referrals, and these laws govern those relationships. the oig has enacted safe harbor regulations that outline practices deemed protected from prosecution under the anti-kickback statute. while we endeavor to comply with the applicable safe harbors, certain of our current arrangements, including joint ventures and financial relationships with physicians and other referral sources and persons and entities to which we refer patients, do not qualify for safe harbor protection. failure to qualify for a safe harbor does not mean the arrangement necessarily violates the anti-kickback statute but may subject the arrangement to greater scrutiny. however, we cannot offer assurance that practices outside of a safe harbor will not be found to violate the anti-kickback statute. allegations of violations of the anti-kickback statute may be brought under the federal civil monetary penalty law, which requires a lower burden of proof than other fraud and abuse laws, including the anti-kickback statute. our financial relationships with referring physicians and their immediate family members must comply with the stark law by meeting an exception. we attempt to structure our relationships to meet an exception to the stark law, but the regulations implementing the exceptions are detailed and complex, and we cannot provide assurance that every relationship complies fully with the stark law. unlike the anti-kickback statute, failure to meet an exception under the stark law results in a violation of the stark law, even if such violation is technical in nature. 38 table of contents index to financial statements additionally, if we violate the anti-kickback statute or stark law, or if we improperly bill for our services, we may be found to violate the fca, either under a suit brought by the government or by a private person under a qui tam , or whistleblower, suit. see item 1, business regulation and other factors. we also operate health care facilities in the united kingdom and have operations and commercial relationships with companies in other foreign jurisdictions and, as a result, are subject to certain u.s. and foreign laws applicable to businesses generally, including anti-corruption laws. the foreign corrupt practices act regulates u.s. companies in their dealings with foreign officials, prohibiting bribes and similar practices, and requires that they maintain records that fairly and accurately reflect transactions and appropriate internal accounting controls. in addition, the united kingdom bribery act has wide jurisdiction over certain activities that affect the united kingdom. a variety of state, national, foreign and international laws and regulations apply to the collection, use, retention, protection, security, disclosure, transfer and other processing of personal data. many foreign data privacy regulations (including the general data protection regulation (the gdpr ), which became effective in the european union on may 25, 2018) are more stringent than those in the united states. these laws and regulations are rapidly evolving and changing, and could have an adverse effect on our operations. companies obligations and requirements under these laws and regulations are subject to uncertainty in how they may be interpreted by government authorities and regulators. the costs of compliance with, and the other burdens imposed by, these and other laws or regulatory actions may increase our operational costs, result in interruptions or delays in the availability of systems and/or result in a patient volume decline. in the case of non-compliance with a material provision of the gdpr (such as non-adherence to the core principles of processing personal data), regulators have the authority to levy a fine in an amount that is up to the greater of 20 million or 4% of global annual turnover in the prior year. if it is determined that non-compliance is related to a non-material provision (such as failure to comply with technical measures), regulators may impose a fine in an amount that is up to the greater of 10 million or 2% of the global annual turnover from the prior year. these administrative fines are discretionary and based, in each case, on a multi-factored approach. we may also face audits or investigations by one or more domestic or foreign government agencies relating to our compliance with these regulations. an adverse outcome under any such investigation or audit could result in liability, result in adverse publicity, and adversely affect our business. we engage in consumer debt collection for hca-affiliated hospitals and certain non-affiliated hospitals. the federal fair debt collection practices act and telephone consumer protection act restrict the methods that companies may use to contact and seek payment from consumer debtors regarding past due accounts. many states impose additional requirements on debt collection practices, and some of those requirements may be more stringent than the federal requirements. if we fail to comply with these or other applicable laws and regulations, we could be subject to liabilities, including civil penalties, the loss of our licenses to operate one or more facilities, exclusion of one or more facilities from participation in the medicare, medicaid and other federal and state health care programs and criminal penalties. we do not always have the benefit of significant regulatory or judicial interpretation of these laws and regulations. in the future, different interpretations or enforcement of, or amendment to, these or other laws and regulations could subject our current or past practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality or could require us to make changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel, services, capital expenditure programs and operating expenses. a determination that we have violated these or other laws, or the public announcement that we are being investigated for possible violations of these or other laws, could have a material, adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects, and our business reputation could suffer significantly. in addition, other legislation or regulations at the federal or state level may be adopted that adversely affect our business. 39 table of contents index to financial statements we have been and could become the subject of government investigations, claims and litigation. health care companies are subject to numerous investigations by various government agencies. further, under the fca, private parties have the right to bring qui tam , or whistleblower, suits against companies that submit false claims for payments to, or improperly retain overpayments from, the government. some states have adopted similar state whistleblower and false claims provisions. certain of our individual facilities and/or affiliates have received, and other facilities and/or affiliates may receive, government inquiries from, and may be subject to investigation by, federal and state agencies. depending on whether the underlying conduct in these or future inquiries or investigations could be considered systemic, their resolution could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. government agencies and their agents, such as the macs, fiscal intermediaries and carriers, as well as the oig, cms and state medicaid programs, conduct audits of our health care operations. cms and state medicaid agencies contract with racs and other contractors on a contingency fee basis to conduct post-payment reviews to detect and correct improper payments in the medicare program, including managed medicare plans, and the medicaid programs. rac denials are appealable; however, there are currently significant delays in the assignment of new medicare appeals to administrative law judges, which negatively impacts our ability to appeal rac payment denials. private third-party payers may conduct similar post-payment audits, and we also perform internal audits and monitoring. depending on the nature of the conduct found in such audits and whether the underlying conduct could be considered systemic, the resolution of these audits could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. should we be found out of compliance with any of these laws, regulations or programs, depending on the nature of the findings, our business, our financial position and our results of operations could be negatively impacted. changes to physician utilization practices and treatment methodologies, third-party payer controls designed to reduce inpatient services or surgical procedures and other factors outside our control that impact demand for medical services may reduce our revenues. controls imposed by medicare, managed medicare, medicaid, managed medicaid and private third-party payers designed to reduce admissions, intensity of services, surgical volumes and lengths of stay, in some instances referred to as utilization review, have affected and are expected to continue to affect our facilities. utilization review entails the review of the admission and course of treatment of a patient by third-party payers. the medicare program also issues national or local coverage determinations that restrict the circumstances under which medicare pays for certain services. inpatient utilization, average lengths of stay and occupancy rates continue to be negatively affected by third-party payers preadmission authorization requirements, coverage restrictions, utilization review and by pressure to maximize outpatient and alternative health care delivery services for less acutely ill patients. efforts to impose more stringent cost controls are expected to continue. additionally, trends in physician treatment protocols and health plan design, such as health plans that shift increased costs and accountability for care to patients, could reduce our surgical volumes and admissions in favor of lower intensity and lower cost treatment methodologies. volume, admission and case-mix trends may be impacted by other factors beyond our control, such as changes in volume of certain high acuity services, variations in the prevalence and severity of outbreaks of influenza and other illnesses and medical conditions, seasonal and severe weather conditions, changes in treatment regimens and medical technology and other advances. these factors may reduce the demand for services we offer and decrease the reimbursement that we receive. significant limits on the scope of services reimbursed, cost controls, changes to physician utilization practices, treatment methodologies, reimbursement rates and fees and other factors beyond our control could have a material, adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. 40 table of contents index to financial statements our overall business results may suffer during periods of general economic weakness. budget deficits at federal, state and local government entities have had a negative impact on spending, and may continue to negatively impact spending, for health and human service programs, including medicare, medicaid and similar programs, which represent significant third-party payer sources for our hospitals. we anticipate that the federal deficit, the growing magnitude of medicare expenditures and the aging of the united states population will continue to place pressure on government health care programs. other risks we face during periods of economic weakness and high unemployment include potential declines in the population covered under managed care agreements, increased patient decisions to postpone or cancel elective and nonemergency health care procedures (including delaying surgical procedures), potential increases in the uninsured and underinsured populations, increased adoption of health plan structures that shift financial responsibility to patients and further difficulties in collecting patient receivables for copayment and deductible receivables. the industry trend toward value-based purchasing may negatively impact our revenues. there is a trend in the health care industry toward value-based purchasing of health care services. these value-based purchasing programs include both public reporting of quality data and preventable adverse events tied to the quality and efficiency of care provided by facilities. governmental programs including medicare currently require hospitals to report certain quality data to receive full reimbursement updates. in addition, medicare does not reimburse for care related to certain preventable adverse events (also called never events ). the health reform law also prohibits the use of federal funds under the medicaid program to reimburse providers for medical assistance provided to treat hacs. the 25% of hospitals with the worst risk-adjusted hac scores in the designated performance period receive a 1% reduction in their inpatient pps medicare payments. hospitals with excess readmission rates for conditions designated by hhs will receive a reduction in their inpatient pps operating medicare payments for all medicare inpatient discharges, not just discharges relating to the conditions subject to the excess readmission standard. the reduction in payments to hospitals with excess readmissions can be up to 3% of a hospital base payments. hhs has implemented a value-based purchasing program for inpatient hospital services that reduces inpatient hospital payments for all discharges by 2% in each federal fiscal year. hhs pools the amount collected from these reductions to fund payments to reward hospitals that meet or exceed certain quality performance standards established by hhs. hhs estimates that $1.9 billion in value-based incentive payments will be available to hospitals in federal fiscal year 2019 based on achievement (relative to other hospitals) and improvement (relative to the hospital own past performance). hospitals that meet or exceed the quality performance standards will receive greater reimbursement under the value-based purchasing program than they would have otherwise. cms has developed several alternative payment models that are intended to reduce costs and improve quality of care for medicare beneficiaries. examples of alternative payment models include bundled payment models in which, depending on whether overall cms spending per episode exceeds or falls below a target specified by cms and whether quality standards are met, hospitals may receive supplemental medicare payments or owe repayments to cms. generally, participation in bundled payment programs is voluntary, but cms requires hospitals in selected markets to participate in a bundled payment initiative for orthopedic services. cms has indicated that it is developing more voluntary and mandatory bundled payment models. participation in mandatory or voluntary demonstration projects, particularly demonstrations with the potential to affect payment, may negatively impact our results of operations. many large private third-party payers currently require hospitals to report quality data, and several private third-party payers do not reimburse hospitals for certain preventable adverse events. further, we have implemented a policy pursuant to which we do not bill patients or third-party payers for fees or expenses incurred due to certain preventable adverse events. 41 table of contents index to financial statements we expect value-based purchasing programs, including programs that condition reimbursement on patient outcome measures, to become more common and to involve a higher percentage of reimbursement amounts. cms has announced aggressive goals for adopting alternative payment models, which may include additional bundled payment programs, and private third-party payers may also transition away from fee-for-service payment models. it is unclear whether these and other alternative payment models will successfully coordinate care and reduce costs or whether they will decrease aggregate reimbursement. we are unable at this time to predict our future payments or whether we will be subject to payment reductions under these programs or how this trend will affect our results of operations. if we are unable to meet or exceed the quality performance standards under any applicable value-based purchasing program, perform at a level below the outcomes demonstrated by our competitors, or otherwise fail to effectively provide or coordinate the efficient delivery of quality health care services, our reputation in the industry may be negatively impacted, we may receive reduced reimbursement amounts and we may owe repayments to payers, causing our revenues to decline. our operations could be impaired by a failure of our information systems. the performance of our information systems is critical to our business operations. in addition to our shared services initiatives, our information systems are essential to a number of critical areas of our operations, including: accounting and financial reporting; billing and collecting accounts; coding and compliance; clinical systems and medical devices; medical records and document storage; inventory management; negotiating, pricing and administering managed care contracts and supply contracts; and monitoring quality of care and collecting data on quality measures necessary for full medicare payment updates. information systems may be vulnerable to damage from a variety of sources, including telecommunications or network failures, human acts and natural disasters. we have taken precautionary measures to prevent unanticipated problems that could affect our information systems. nevertheless, we may experience system failures. the occurrence of any system failure could result in interruptions, delays, the loss or corruption of data and cessations or interruptions in the availability of systems, all of which could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations and harm our business reputation. a cybersecurity incident could result in the compromise of our facilities, confidential data or critical data systems and give rise to potential harm to patients, remediation and other expenses, expose us to liability under hipaa, consumer protection laws, common law theories or other laws, subject us to litigation and foreign, federal and state governmental inquiries, damage our reputation, and otherwise be disruptive to our business. we, independently and through third-party vendors, collect and store on our networks and devices sensitive information, including intellectual property, proprietary business information and personally identifiable information of our patients and employees. we have made significant investments in technology to adopt and meaningfully use ehr and in the use of medical devices that store sensitive data and are integral to the provision of patient care. in addition, medical devices manufactured by third parties that are used within our facilities are increasingly connected to the internet, hospital networks and other medical devices. the secure maintenance of this information and technology is critical to our business operations. we have implemented multiple layers of 42 table of contents index to financial statements security measures to protect the confidentiality, integrity and availability of this data and the systems and devices that store and transmit such data. we utilize current security technologies, and our defenses are monitored and routinely tested internally and by external parties. despite these efforts, threats from malicious persons and groups, new vulnerabilities and advanced new attacks against information systems and devices against us or our third party vendors create risk of cybersecurity incidents, including ransomware and malware incidents. we are regularly the target of attempted cybersecurity and other threats that could have a security impact. there can be no assurance that we or our third-party vendors will not be subject to cybersecurity incidents that bypass our security measures, impact the integrity, availability or privacy of personal health information or other data subject to privacy laws or disrupt our information systems, devices or business, including our ability to provide various health care services. as a result, cybersecurity, physical security and the continued development and enhancement of our controls, processes and practices designed to protect our facilities, information systems and data from attack, damage or unauthorized access remain a priority for us. as cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any cybersecurity vulnerabilities or incidents. the occurrence of any of these events could result in (i) harm to patients; (ii) business interruptions and delays; (iii) the loss, misappropriation, corruption or unauthorized access of data; (iv) litigation and potential liability under privacy, security, breach notification and consumer protection laws, common law theories or other applicable laws; (v) reputational damage and (vi) foreign, federal and state governmental inquiries, any of which could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations and harm our business reputation. if we fail to continue to demonstrate meaningful use of certified electronic health record systems, our operations could be adversely affected. eligible hospitals and eligible professionals that fail to demonstrate meaningful use of certified ehr technology in an applicable prior reporting period are subject to reduced payments from medicare in connection with the cms promoting interoperability program. failure to continue to demonstrate meaningful use of certified ehr technology could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. the emergence and effects related to a pandemic, epidemic or outbreak of an infectious disease could adversely affect our operations. if a pandemic, epidemic, outbreak of an infectious disease or other public health crisis were to occur in an area in which we operate, our operations could be adversely affected. such a crisis could diminish the public trust in health care facilities, especially hospitals that fail to accurately or timely diagnose, or are treating (or have treated) patients affected by infectious diseases. if any of our facilities were involved, or perceived as being involved, in treating patients from such an infectious disease, patients might cancel elective procedures or fail to seek needed care at our facilities. further, a pandemic, epidemic or outbreak might adversely affect our operations by causing a temporary shutdown or diversion of patients, by disrupting or delaying production and delivery of materials and products in the supply chain or by causing staffing shortages in our facilities. we have disaster plans in place and operate pursuant to infectious disease protocols, but the potential emergence of a pandemic, epidemic or outbreak is difficult to predict and could adversely affect our operations. state efforts to regulate the construction or expansion of health care facilities could impair our ability to operate and expand our operations. some states, particularly in the eastern part of the country, require health care providers to obtain prior approval, often known as a con, for the purchase, construction or expansion of health care facilities, to make certain capital expenditures or to make changes in services or bed capacity. in giving approval, these states consider the need for additional or expanded health care facilities or services. we currently operate health care facilities in a number of states with con laws or that require other types of approvals for the establishment or expansion of certain facility types or services. the failure to obtain any required con or other required approval 43 table of contents index to financial statements could impair our ability to operate or expand operations. any such failure could, in turn, adversely affect our ability to attract patients and physicians to our facilities and grow our revenues, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. we may encounter difficulty acquiring hospitals and other health care businesses, encounter challenges integrating the operations of acquired hospitals and other health care businesses and become liable for unknown or contingent liabilities as a result of acquisitions. a component of our business strategy is acquiring hospitals and other health care businesses. we may encounter difficulty acquiring new facilities or other businesses as a result of competition from other purchasers that may be willing to pay purchase prices that are higher than we believe are reasonable. some states require cons in order to acquire a hospital or other facility or to expand facilities or services. in addition, the acquisition of health care facilities often involves licensure approvals or reviews and complex change of ownership processes for medicare and other payers. further, many states have laws that restrict the conversion or sale of not-for-profit hospitals to for-profit entities. these laws may require prior approval from the state attorney general, advance notification of the attorney general or other regulators and community involvement. attorneys general in states without specific requirements may exercise broad discretionary authority over transactions involving the sale of not-for-profits under their general obligations to protect the use of charitable assets. these conversion legislative and administrative efforts often focus on the appropriate valuation of the assets divested and the use of the proceeds of the sale by the non-profit seller and may include consideration of commitments for capital improvements and charity care by the purchaser. also, the increasingly challenging regulatory and enforcement environment may negatively impact our ability to acquire health care businesses if they are found to have material unresolved compliance issues, such as repayment obligations. resolving compliance issues as well as completion of oversight, review or approval processes could seriously delay or even prevent our ability to acquire hospitals or other businesses and increase our acquisition costs. we may be unable to timely and effectively integrate hospitals and other businesses that we acquire with our ongoing operations, or we may experience delays implementing operating procedures and systems. hospitals and other health care businesses that we acquire may have unknown or contingent liabilities, including liabilities for failure to comply with health care and other laws and regulations, medical and general professional liabilities, workers compensation liabilities and tax liabilities. although we typically exclude significant liabilities from our acquisition transactions and seek indemnification from the sellers for these matters, we could experience difficulty enforcing those obligations, experience liability in excess of any indemnification obtained or otherwise incur material liabilities for the pre-acquisition conduct of acquired businesses. such liabilities and related legal or other costs could harm our business and results of operations. our facilities are heavily concentrated in florida and texas, which makes us sensitive to regulatory, economic, environmental and competitive conditions and changes in those states. we operated 179 hospitals at december 31, 2018, and 92 of those hospitals are located in florida and texas. our florida and texas facilities combined revenues represented approximately 49% of our consolidated revenues for the year ended december 31, 2018. this concentration makes us particularly sensitive to regulatory, economic, environmental and competitive conditions and changes in those states. any material change in the current payment programs or regulatory, economic, environmental or competitive conditions in those states could have a disproportionate effect on our overall business results. in addition, our hospitals in florida, texas and other coastal states are located in hurricane-prone areas. in the past, hurricanes have had a disruptive effect on the operations of our hospitals in florida, texas and other coastal states and the patient populations in those states. our business activities could be harmed by a particularly active hurricane season or even a single storm, and the property insurance we obtain may not be adequate to cover losses from future hurricanes or other natural disasters. 44 table of contents index to financial statements we may be subject to liabilities from claims by taxing authorities. we are subject to examination by federal, state and foreign taxing authorities. management believes hca healthcare, inc., its predecessors, subsidiaries and affiliates properly reported taxable income and paid taxes in accordance with applicable laws and agreements established with the irs, state and foreign taxing authorities and final resolution of any disputes will not have a material, adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. however, if payments due upon final resolution of any issues exceed our recorded estimates, such resolutions could have a material, adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. we may be subject to liabilities from claims brought against our facilities. we are subject to litigation relating to our business practices, including claims and legal actions by patients and others in the ordinary course of business alleging malpractice, product liability or other legal theories. many of these actions seek large sums of money as damages and involve significant defense costs. we insure a portion of our professional liability risks through a 100% owned subsidiary. management believes our reserves for self-insured retentions and insurance coverage are sufficient to cover insured claims arising out of the operation of our facilities. our 100% owned liability insurance subsidiary has entered into certain reinsurance contracts; however, the subsidiary remains liable to the extent that the reinsurers do not meet their obligations under the reinsurance contracts. if payments for claims exceed actuarially determined estimates, are not covered by insurance, or reinsurers, if any, fail to meet their obligations, our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected. we are exposed to market risk related to changes in the market values of securities and interest rate changes. we are exposed to market risk related to changes in market values of securities. the investments of our 100% owned insurance subsidiaries were $409 million at december 31, 2018. these investments are carried at fair value, with changes in unrealized gains and losses being recorded as adjustments to other comprehensive income. at december 31, 2018, we had a net unrealized gain of $3 million on the insurance subsidiaries investment securities. we are exposed to market risk related to market illiquidity. investment securities of our 100% owned insurance subsidiaries could be impaired by the inability to access the capital markets. should the 100% owned insurance subsidiaries require significant amounts of cash in excess of normal cash requirements to pay claims and other expenses on short notice, we may have difficulty selling these investments in a timely manner or be forced to sell them at a price less than what we might otherwise have been able to in a normal market environment. we may be required to recognize other-than-temporary impairments on long-term investments in future periods should issuers default on interest payments or should the fair market valuations of the securities deteriorate due to ratings downgrades or other issue specific factors. we are also exposed to market risk related to changes in interest rates that impact the amount of the interest expense we incur with respect to our floating rate obligations as well as the value of certain investments. we periodically enter into interest rate swap agreements to manage our exposure to these fluctuations. our interest rate swap agreements involve the exchange of fixed and variable rate interest payments between two parties, based on common notional principal amounts and maturity dates. the notional amounts of the swap agreements represent balances used to calculate the exchange of cash flows and are not our assets or liabilities. discontinuation, reform or replacement of libor may adversely affect our business. the u.k. financial conduct authority announced in 2017 that it intends to phase out libor by the end of 2021. changes to libor or any other benchmark rate may impact credit markets. as of december 31, 2018, we had $6.841 billion of borrowings under our senior secured credit facilities that bore interest at rates based on libor and $2.693 billion of unfunded commitments under those facilities. the administrative agent for those facilities may approve a comparable or successor rate with respect to libor or, if not feasible, another 45 table of contents index to financial statements accommodation as reasonably determined by the agent. the replacement of libor with a comparable or successor rate could cause the amount of interest payable on our senior secured credit facilities to be different than expected. as of december 31, 2018, we also had $2.500 billion of interest rate swap agreements based on libor. if libor becomes unavailable, it is unclear how payments under those agreements would be calculated. relevant industry groups are seeking to create a standard protocol addressing the expected discontinuation of libor, but there can be no assurance that such a protocol will be developed or implemented with respect to our swap agreements. there can be no assurance that we will continue to pay dividends. in january 2018, the board of directors initiated a cash dividend program under which the company commenced and expects to continue to pay a regular quarterly cash dividend. the declaration, amount and timing of such dividends are subject to capital availability and determinations by our board of directors that cash dividends are in the best interest of our stockholders and are in compliance with all respective laws and our agreements applicable to the declaration and payment of cash dividends. our ability to pay dividends will depend upon, among other factors, our cash flows from operations, our available capital and potential future capital requirements for strategic transactions, including acquisitions, debt service requirements, share repurchases and investing in our existing markets as well as our results of operations, financial condition and other factors beyond our control that our board of directors may deem relevant. a reduction in or elimination of our dividend payments could have a negative effect on our stock price. uncertainties in the interpretation and application of the 2017 tax cuts and jobs act could materially affect our tax obligations and effective tax rate. the 2017 tax cuts and jobs act (the tax act ) was enacted on december 22, 2017. the tax act significantly revises u.s. corporate income taxes, including lowering the statutory corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% beginning in 2018, imposing a mandatory one-time transition tax on undistributed foreign earnings and creating a new u.s. minimum tax on earnings of foreign subsidiaries. due to the complexity and uncertainty regarding numerous provisions of the tax act, we continue to monitor legislative developments and interpretive guidance issued by federal and state taxing authorities or other standard-setting bodies to determine if adjustments to amounts we have recorded for federal, state, and foreign tax assets and liabilities as of december 31, 2018 are appropriate. any adjustments or additional amounts recorded may materially impact our provision for income taxes and effective tax rate in the periods in which they are made. certain of our investors may continue to have influence over us. on november 17, 2006, hca inc. was acquired by a private investor group, including affiliates of hca founder, dr. thomas f. frist, jr. and certain other investors. through their investment in hercules holding ii and other holdings, certain of the frist-affiliated investors continue to hold a significant interest in our outstanding common stock (approximately 20% as of january 31, 2019). in addition, pursuant to a shareholders agreement we entered into with hercules holding ii and the frist-affiliated investors, certain representatives of these investors have the continued right to nominate certain of the members of our board of directors. as a result, certain of these investors potentially have the ability to influence our decisions to enter into corporate transactions (and the terms thereof) and prevent changes in the composition of our board of directors and any transaction that requires stockholder approval. 46 table of contents index to financial statements quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 74 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information with respect to this item is provided under the caption market risk under item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations.risk factors 30 risk factors if any of the events discussed in the following risk factors were to occur, our business, financial position, results of operations, cash flows or prospects could be materially, adversely affected. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known, or currently deemed immaterial, may also constrain our business and operations. our substantial leverage could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry, expose us to interest rate risk to the extent of our variable rate debt and prevent us from meeting our obligations. we are highly leveraged. as of december 31, 2019, our total indebtedness was $33.722 billion. as of december 31, 2019, we had availability of $1.967 billion under our senior secured revolving credit facility and $1.270 million under our asset-based revolving credit facility, after giving effect to letters of credit and borrowing base limitations. our high degree of leverage could have important consequences, including: increasing our vulnerability to downturns or adverse changes in general economic, industry or competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulations; requiring a substantial portion of cash flows from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, therefore reducing our ability to use our cash flows to fund our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities; exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates to the extent that our existing unhedged borrowings are at variable rates of interest or we seek to refinance our debt in a rising rate environment; limiting our ability to make strategic acquisitions or causing us to make nonstrategic divestitures; 30 table of contents limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, share repurchases, dividends, product or service line development, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who are less highly leveraged. we and our subsidiaries have the ability to incur additional indebtedness in the future, subject to the restrictions contained in our senior secured credit facilities and the indentures governing our outstanding notes. if new indebtedness is added to our current debt levels, interest rates and the related risks that we now face could intensify. we may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may not be able to refinance our indebtedness on favorable terms. if we are unable to do so, we may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. we cannot assure you we will maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. in addition, we conduct our operations through our subsidiaries. accordingly, repayment of our indebtedness is dependent on the generation of cash flows by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise. our subsidiaries may not be able to, or may not be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness. each subsidiary is a distinct legal entity, and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. we may find it necessary or prudent to refinance our outstanding indebtedness, the terms of which may not be favorable to us. our ability to refinance our indebtedness on favorable terms, or at all, is directly affected by the then current global economic and financial conditions which affect the availability of debt financing and the rates at which such financing is available. in addition, our ability to incur secured indebtedness (which would generally enable us to achieve better pricing than the incurrence of unsecured indebtedness) depends in part on the value of our assets, which depends, in turn, on the strength of our cash flows and results of operations, and on economic and market conditions and other factors. if our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations or we are unable to refinance our indebtedness, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure our indebtedness. these alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. if our operating results and available cash are insufficient to meet our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. we may not be able to consummate those dispositions, or the proceeds from the dispositions may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. our debt agreements contain restrictions that limit our flexibility in operating our business. our senior secured credit facilities and, to a lesser extent, the indentures governing our outstanding notes contain various covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions. these covenants limit our and certain of our subsidiaries' ability to, among other things: incur additional indebtedness or issue certain preferred shares; 31 table of contents pay dividends on, repurchase or make distributions in respect of our capital stock or make other restricted payments; make certain investments; sell or transfer assets; create liens; consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and enter into certain transactions with our affiliates. under our asset-based revolving credit facility, borrowing availability is subject to a borrowing base of 85% of eligible accounts receivable less customary reserves, with any reduction in the borrowing base commensurately reducing our ability to access this facility as a source of liquidity. in addition, under the asset-based revolving credit facility, when (and for as long as) the combined availability under our asset-based revolving credit facility and our senior secured revolving credit facility is less than a specified amount for a certain period of time or, if a payment or bankruptcy event of default has occurred and is continuing, funds deposited into any of our depository accounts will be transferred on a daily basis into a blocked account with the administrative agent and applied to prepay loans under the asset-based revolving credit facility and to collateralize letters of credit issued thereunder. under our senior secured credit facilities, we are required to satisfy and maintain specified financial ratios. our ability to meet those financial ratios may be affected by events beyond our control, and there can be no assurance we will continue to meet those ratios. a breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under both the cash flow credit facility and the asset-based revolving credit facility. upon the occurrence of an event of default under these senior secured credit facilities, the lenders thereunder could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the senior secured credit facilities to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit, which would also result in an event of default under a significant portion of our other outstanding indebtedness. if we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under the senior secured credit facilities could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure such indebtedness. we have pledged a significant portion of our assets under our senior secured credit facilities and that collateral is also pledged as collateral under our first lien notes. if any of the lenders under the senior secured credit facilities accelerate the repayment of borrowings, there can be no assurance there will be sufficient assets to repay the senior secured credit facilities, the first lien notes and our other indebtedness. our results of operations may be adversely affected by health care reform efforts, including court challenges to, and efforts to repeal, replace or otherwise significantly change the affordable care act. we are unable to predict what, if any, and when such changes will be made in the future. in recent years, the u.s. congress and certain state legislatures have passed a large number of laws and regulations intended to effect major change within the u.s. health care system, including the affordable care act. the affordable care act affects how health care services are covered, delivered and reimbursed through expanded health insurance coverage, reduced growth in medicare program spending, reductions in medicare and medicaid dsh payments, and the establishment of programs that tie reimbursement to quality and integration. however, there is uncertainty regarding the future of the affordable care act. the law has been subject to legislative and regulatory changes and court challenges. the presidential administration and a number of members of congress have stated their intent to repeal or make additional significant changes to the affordable care act, its implementation or interpretation. for example, final rules issued in 2018 expand the availability of association health plans and allow the sale of short-term, limited-duration health plans, neither of which are required to cover all of the essential health benefits mandated by the affordable care act. further, the president of the united states signed an executive order that directs agencies to minimize economic and regulatory burdens of the affordable care act, which may result in additional changes in how the law is implemented. 32 table of contents effective january 1, 2019, the penalty associated with the individual mandate to maintain health insurance was eliminated. as a result of this change, in december 2018, the united states district court for the north district of texas found the individual mandate to be unconstitutional and determined that the rest of the affordable care act was, therefore, invalid. in december 2019, the fifth circuit court of appeals upheld this decision with respect to the individual mandate, but remanded for further consideration of how this affects the rest of the law. pending the appeals process, the law remains in place. the elimination of the individual mandate penalty and other changes may impact the number of individuals that elect to obtain public or private health insurance or the scope of such coverage, if purchased, either of which may have an adverse effect on our business. there is uncertainty regarding whether, when, and how the affordable care act may be further changed, the ultimate outcome of court challenges and how the law will be interpreted and implemented. changes by congress or government agencies could eliminate or alter provisions beneficial to us, while leaving in place provisions reducing our reimbursement or otherwise negatively impacting our business. there is also uncertainty regarding whether, when, and what other health reform initiatives will be adopted and the impact of such efforts on providers and other health care industry participants. further, the outcome of the 2020 federal election and its potential impact on health reform efforts is unknown. some presidential candidates and members of congress have proposed measures that would expand government-sponsored coverage, including single-payer proposals (often referred to as medicare for all ), and some states are considering similar measures. cms has indicated that it intends to increase flexibility in state medicaid programs, including by expanding the scope of waivers under which states may implement medicaid expansion provisions, impose different eligibility or enrollment restrictions, or otherwise implement programs that vary from federal standards. cms administrators have also signaled interest in changing medicaid payment models. other health reform initiatives and proposals, such as those addressing out-of-network charges, may impact prices, our relationships with patients and payers, and our competitive position. other industry participants, such as private payers and large employer groups and their affiliates, may also introduce financial or delivery system reforms. we are unable to predict the nature and success of such initiatives. health care reform initiatives, including changes to or repeal or invalidation of the affordable care act, may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flow, capital resources, and liquidity. changes in government health care programs may adversely affect our revenues. a significant portion of our patient volume is derived from government health care programs, principally medicare and medicaid. specifically, we derived 41.5% of our revenues from the medicare and medicaid programs in 2019. changes in government health care programs, including medicaid waiver programs, may reduce the reimbursement we receive and could adversely affect our business and results of operations. the affordable care act has made significant changes to medicare and medicaid, and future health reform efforts or further efforts to repeal or significantly change the affordable care act may impact these programs. in recent years, legislative and regulatory changes have resulted in limitations on and, in some cases, reductions in levels of payments to health care providers for certain services under the medicare program. congress has established automatic spending reductions that extend through 2029. however, the percentage reduction for medicare may not be more than 2% for a fiscal year, with a uniform percentage reduction across all medicare programs. we are unable to predict what other deficit reduction initiatives may be proposed by congress. these reductions are in addition to reductions mandated by the affordable care act and other laws. further, from time to time, cms revises the reimbursement systems used to reimburse health care providers, including changes to the ms-drg system and other payment systems, which may result in reduced medicare payments. for example, under a site neutrality policy, clinic visit services provided by off-campus provider-based departments that were formerly paid under the outpatient pps are now paid under the physician fee schedule, subject to certain exceptions that are being phased out through calendar years 2019 and 2020. although a federal judge invalidated the expansion of the policy for calendar year 2019, in a decision that cms is appealing, cms issued a final rule implementing year two of the policy phase-in for 2020. cms is also considering proposals to reduce drug costs and has reduced medicare payment rates under the outpatient pps for 33 table of contents most drugs obtained at 340b discounted rates, although the final rules implementing the 340b reductions are the subject of ongoing court challenges. cms may implement changes to how items or services are reimbursed that result in payment reductions for other services. because most states must operate with balanced budgets and because the medicaid program is often a state's largest program, some states have enacted or may consider enacting legislation designed to reduce their medicaid expenditures. further, many states have also adopted, or are considering, legislation designed to reduce coverage, enroll medicaid recipients in managed care programs, dis-enroll medicaid recipients who fail to meet work requirements and/or impose additional taxes on hospitals to help finance or expand the states' medicaid systems. periods of economic weakness may increase the budgetary pressures on many states, and these budgetary pressures may result in decreased spending, or decreased spending growth, for medicaid programs and the children's health insurance program in many states. some states that provide medicaid supplemental payments are reviewing these programs or have filed waiver requests with cms to replace these programs, and cms has performed and continues to perform compliance reviews of some states' programs and is considering changes to the requirements for such programs, which could result in medicaid supplemental payments being reduced or eliminated. further, legislation and administrative actions at the federal level may significantly alter the funding for, or structure of, the medicaid program. for example, from time to time, congress considers proposals to restructure the medicaid program to involve block grants that would be administered by the states. cms has announced its intent to introduce additional flexibilities for medicaid program operation, including block grants and increased use of value-based care models. in some cases, private third-party payers rely on all or portions of medicare payment systems to determine payment rates. changes to government health care programs that reduce payments under these programs may negatively impact payments from private third-party payers. current or future health care reform and deficit reduction efforts, changes in laws or regulations regarding government health care programs, other changes in the administration of government health care programs and changes by private third-party payers in response to health care reform and other changes to government health care programs could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. our hospitals face competition for staffing, which may increase labor costs. our operations are dependent on the efforts, abilities and experience of our management and medical support personnel, such as nurses, pharmacists and lab technicians, as well as our physicians. we compete with other health care providers in recruiting and retaining qualified management and support personnel responsible for the daily operations of each of our hospitals, including nurses and other nonphysician health care professionals. in some markets, the availability of nurses and other medical support personnel has been a significant operating issue to health care providers. we may be required to continue to enhance wages and benefits to recruit and retain nurses and other medical support personnel or to hire more expensive temporary or contract personnel. as a result, our labor costs could increase. we also depend on the available labor pool of semi-skilled and unskilled employees in each of the markets in which we operate. if there is additional union organizing activity and to the extent a significant portion of our employee base unionizes, it is possible our labor costs could increase materially. when negotiating collective bargaining agreements with unions, whether such agreements are renewals or first contracts, there is the possibility that strikes could occur during the negotiation process, and our continued operation during any strikes could increase our labor costs. in addition, the states in which we operate could adopt mandatory nurse-staffing ratios or could reduce mandatory nurse staffing ratios already in place. state-mandated nurse-staffing ratios could significantly affect labor costs and have an adverse impact on revenues if we are required to limit admissions in order to meet the required ratios. if our labor costs increase, we may not be able to offset these increased costs as a significant percentage of our revenues consists of fixed, prospective payments. our failure to recruit and retain qualified management, nurses and other medical support personnel, or to control labor costs, could have a material, adverse effect on our results of operations. 34 table of contents we may be unable to attract, hire, and retain a highly qualified and diverse workforce, including key management. the talents and efforts of our employees, particularly our key management, are vital to our success. our management team has significant industry experience and would be difficult to replace. in addition, institutional knowledge may be lost in any potential managerial transition. we may be unable to retain them or to attract other highly qualified employees, particularly if we do not offer employment terms that are competitive with the rest of the labor market. failure to attract, hire, develop, motivate, and retain highly qualified and diverse employee talent, or failure to develop and implement an adequate succession plan for the management team, could disrupt our operations and adversely affect our business and our future success. our performance depends on our ability to recruit and retain quality physicians. the success of our hospitals depends in part on the number and quality of the physicians on the medical staffs of our hospitals, the admitting and utilization practices of those physicians, maintaining good relations with those physicians and controlling costs related to the employment of physicians. although we employ some physicians, physicians are often not employees of the hospitals at which they practice, and, in many of the markets we serve, most physicians have admitting privileges at other hospitals in addition to our hospitals. we continue to face increasing competition to recruit physicians. such physicians may terminate their affiliation with our hospitals at any time. we may face increased challenges in this area as the physician population reaches retirement age, especially if there is a shortage of physicians willing and able to provide comparable services. if we are unable to provide adequate support personnel or technologically advanced equipment and hospital facilities that meet the needs of those physicians and their patients, they may be discouraged from referring patients to our facilities, admissions may decrease and our operating performance may decline. our hospitals face competition for patients from other hospitals and health care providers. the health care business is highly competitive, and competition among hospitals and other health care providers for patients has intensified in recent years. generally, other hospitals in the communities we serve provide services similar to those offered by our hospitals. cms publicizes on its hospital compare website performance data related to quality measures and data on patient satisfaction surveys that hospitals submit in connection with their medicare reimbursement. the hospital compare website provides an overall rating that synthesizes various quality measures into a single star rating for each hospital. federal law provides for the future expansion of the number of quality measures that must be reported. further, hospitals are currently required by law to publish online a list of their standard charges for items and services. a cms final rule implements expanded transparency requirements beginning in 2021, but these additional requirements are the subject of ongoing court challenges. if any of our hospitals achieve poor results (or results that are lower than our competitors) on quality measures or on patient satisfaction surveys or if our standard charges are higher or are perceived to be higher than our competitors, our competitive position could be negatively affected. the number of freestanding specialty hospitals, surgery centers, emergency departments, urgent care centers and diagnostic and imaging centers in the geographic areas in which we operate has increased. many individuals are seeking a broader range of services at outpatient facilities as a result of the growing availability of stand-alone outpatient health care facilities, the increase in payer reimbursement policies that restrict inpatient coverage and the increase in the services that can be provided on an outpatient basis, including high margin services. consequently, most of our hospitals operate in a highly competitive environment, which may put pressure on our pricing, ability to contract with third-party payers and the company's strategy for volume growth. some of the facilities that compete with our hospitals are physician-owned or are owned by governmental agencies or not-for-profit corporations supported by endowments, charitable contributions and/or tax revenues and can finance capital expenditures and operations on a tax-exempt basis. recent consolidations of not-for-profit hospital entities may intensify this competitive pressure. there is also increasing consolidation in the third-party payer industry, including vertical integration efforts among third-party payers and health care providers, and 35 table of contents increasing efforts by payers to influence or direct the patient's choice of provider by the use of narrow networks or other strategies. health care industry participants are increasingly implementing physician alignment strategies, such as employing physicians, acquiring physician practice groups and participating in acos or other clinical integration models. other industry participants, such as large employer groups and their affiliates, may intensify competitive pressure and affect the industry in ways that are difficult to predict. our hospitals compete with specialty hospitals and with both our own and unaffiliated freestanding ascs and other outpatient providers for market share in certain high margin services and for quality physicians and personnel. if ascs and other outpatient providers are better able to compete in this environment than our hospitals, our hospitals may experience a decline in patient volume, and we may experience a decrease in margin, even if those patients use our providers. in states that do not require a con or other type of approval for the purchase, construction or expansion of health care facilities or services, competition in the form of new services, facilities and capital spending is more prevalent. some states that have historically imposed con or similar prior approval requirements have removed or are considering removing these requirements, which may reduce barriers to entry and increase competition in our service areas. if our competitors are better able to attract patients, make capital expenditures and maintain modern and technologically upgraded facilities and equipment, recruit physicians, expand services or obtain favorable third-party payer contracts at their facilities than our hospitals and other providers, we may experience an overall decline in patient volume. see item 1, business competition. a deterioration in the collectability of uninsured and patient due accounts could adversely affect our results of operations. the primary collection risks for our accounts receivable relate to the uninsured patient accounts and patient accounts for which the primary third-party payer has paid the amounts covered by the applicable agreement, but patient responsibility amounts (exclusions, deductibles and copayments) remain outstanding. medicare reimburses hospitals for 65% of eligible medicare bad debts. to be eligible for reimbursement, the amounts claimed must meet certain criteria, including that the debt is related to unpaid deductible or coinsurance amounts and that the hospital first attempted to collect the fees from the medicare beneficiary. the estimates for implicit price concessions are based upon management's assessment of historical write-offs and expected net collections, business and economic conditions, trends in federal and state governmental and private employer health care coverage, the rate of growth in uninsured patient admissions and other collection indicators. at december 31, 2019, estimated implicit price concessions of $6.953 billion had been recorded to adjust our revenues and accounts receivable to the estimated amounts we expect to collect. the estimated cost of total uncompensated care increased from $3.021 billion for 2017 to $3.318 billion for 2018 and to $3.733 billion for 2019. any increase in the amount or deterioration in the collectability of uninsured accounts receivable will adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations. our facilities may experience growth in total uncompensated care as a result of a number of factors, including conditions impacting the overall economy and high unemployment. effective january 2019, congress eliminated the financial penalty associated with the affordable care act's individual mandate. further, final rules issued in 2018 expand the availability of association health plans and allow the sale of short-term, limited-duration health plans, neither of which are required to cover all of the essential health benefits mandated by the affordable care act. these changes may impact the number of individuals that elect to obtain public or private health insurance or the scope of such coverage, if purchased. the presidential administration and a number of members of congress continue to make other efforts to repeal or significantly change the affordable care act, and the law remains subject to court challenges. see item 1a, risk factors our results of operations may be adversely affected by health care reform efforts, including court challenges to, and efforts to repeal, replace or otherwise significantly change the affordable care act. we are unable to predict what, if any, and when such changes will be made in the future. 36 table of contents we provide uninsured discounts and charity care for individuals, including for those residing in states that choose not to implement the medicaid expansion or that modify the terms of the program, for undocumented aliens who are not permitted to enroll in an exchange or government health care programs and for certain others who may not have insurance. some patients may choose to enroll in lower cost medicaid plans or other health insurance plans with lower reimbursement levels. we may also be adversely affected by the growth in patient responsibility accounts as a result of increases in the adoption of health plan structures that shift greater responsibility for care to individuals through greater exclusions and copayment and deductible amounts. we may not be reimbursed for the cost of expensive, new technology. as healthcare technology continues to advance, the price of purchasing such new technology has significantly increased for providers. some payers have not adapted their payment systems to adequately cover the cost of these technologies for providers and patients. if payers do not adequately reimburse us for these new technologies, we may be unable to acquire such technologies or we may nevertheless determine to acquire or utilize these technologies in order to treat our patients. in either case, our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected. a cybersecurity incident could result in the compromise of our facilities, confidential data or critical data systems. a cybersecurity incident could also give rise to potential harm to patients; remediation and other expenses; and exposing us to liability under hipaa, consumer protection laws, common law theories or other laws. such incidents could subject us to litigation and foreign, federal and state governmental inquiries, damage our reputation, and otherwise be disruptive to our business. we, directly and through third-party vendors, collect and store on our networks and devices sensitive information, including intellectual property, proprietary business information and personally identifiable information of our patients and employees. we have made significant investments in technology to adopt and meaningfully use ehr and in the use of medical devices that store sensitive data and are integral to the provision of patient care. in addition, medical devices manufactured by third parties that are used within our facilities are increasingly connected to the internet, hospital networks and other medical devices. the secure maintenance of this information and technology is critical to our business operations. we have implemented multiple layers of security measures to protect the confidentiality, integrity and availability of this data and the systems and devices that store and transmit such data. we utilize current security technologies, and our defenses are monitored and routinely tested internally and by external parties. despite these efforts, threats from malicious persons and groups, new vulnerabilities and advanced new attacks against information systems and devices against us or our third-party vendors create risk of cybersecurity incidents, including ransomware, malware and phishing incidents. we are regularly the target of attempted cybersecurity and other threats that could have a security impact. there can be no assurance that we or our third-party vendors will not be subject to cybersecurity incidents that bypass our security measures, impact the integrity, availability or privacy of personal health information or other data subject to privacy laws or disrupt our information systems, devices or business, including our ability to provide various health care services. as a result, cybersecurity, physical security and the continued development and enhancement of our controls, processes and practices designed to protect our facilities, information systems and data from attack, damage or unauthorized access remain a priority for us. as cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any cybersecurity vulnerabilities or incidents. the occurrence of any of these events could result in (i) harm to patients; (ii) business interruptions and delays; (iii) the loss, misappropriation, corruption or unauthorized access of data; (iv) litigation and potential liability under privacy, security, breach notification and consumer protection laws, common law theories or other applicable laws; (v) reputational damage and (vi) foreign, federal and state governmental inquiries, any of which could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations and harm our business reputation. 37 table of contents our operations could be impaired by a failure of our information systems. the performance of our information systems is critical to our business operations. in addition to our shared services initiatives, our information systems are essential to a number of critical areas of our operations, including: accounting and financial reporting; billing and collecting accounts; coding and compliance; clinical systems and medical devices; medical records and document storage; inventory management; negotiating, pricing and administering managed care contracts and supply contracts; and monitoring quality of care and collecting data on quality measures necessary for full medicare payment updates. information systems may be vulnerable to damage from a variety of sources, including telecommunications or network failures, human acts and natural disasters. we have taken precautionary measures to prevent unanticipated problems that could affect our information systems. nevertheless, we or our third-party vendors that we rely upon may experience system failures. the occurrence of any system failure could result in interruptions, delays, the loss or corruption of data and cessations or interruptions in the availability of systems, all of which could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations and harm our business reputation. if our volume of patients with private health insurance coverage declines or we are unable to retain and negotiate favorable contracts with private third-party payers, including managed care plans, our revenues may be reduced. private third-party payers, including hmos, ppos and other managed care plans, typically reimburse health care providers at a higher rate than medicare, medicaid or other government health care programs. reimbursement rates are set forth by contract when our facilities are in-network, and payers utilize plan structures to encourage or require the use of in-network providers. revenues derived from private third-party payers (domestic only) accounted for 51.6%, 52.4% and 53.5% of our revenues for 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. as a result, our ability to maintain or increase patient volumes covered by private third-party payers and to maintain and obtain favorable contracts with private third-party payers significantly affects the revenues and operating results of our facilities. private third-party payers, including managed care plans, continue to demand discounted fee structures, and the ongoing trend toward consolidation among payers tends to increase their bargaining power over fee structures. payers may utilize plan structures such as narrow networks and tiered networks that limit beneficiary provider choices or impose significantly higher cost sharing obligations when care is obtained from providers in a disfavored tier. other health care providers may impact our ability to enter into managed care contracts or negotiate increases in our reimbursement and other favorable terms and conditions. for example, some of our competitors may negotiate exclusivity provisions with managed care plans or otherwise restrict the ability of managed care plans to contract with us. in addition to increasing negotiating leverage of private third-party payers, alignment efforts between third-party payers and health care providers may result in other competitive advantages, such as greater access to performance and pricing data. our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to retain and renew our third-party payer contracts and enter into new contracts on terms favorable to us, which may be impacted by price transparency initiatives. cost-reduction strategies by large employer groups 38 table of contents and their affiliates, such as directly contracting with a limited number of providers, may also limit our ability to negotiate favorable terms in our contracts and otherwise intensify competitive pressure. it is not clear what impact, if any, future health reform efforts or the repeal of, or further changes to, the affordable care act will have on our ability to negotiate reimbursement increases and participate in third-party payer networks on favorable terms. if we are unable to retain and negotiate favorable contracts with third-party payers or experience reductions in payment increases or amounts received from third-party payers, our revenues may be reduced. if we fail to comply with extensive laws and government regulations, we could suffer penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations. the health care industry is required to comply with extensive and complex laws and regulations at the federal, state and local government levels relating to, among other things: billing and coding for services and properly handling overpayments; appropriateness and classification of level of care provided, including proper classification of inpatient admissions, observation services and outpatient care; relationships with physicians and other referral sources and referral recipients; necessity and adequacy of medical care; quality of medical equipment and services; qualifications of medical and support personnel; confidentiality, maintenance, data breach, identity theft and security issues associated with health-related and personal information and medical records; screening, stabilization and transfer of individuals who have emergency medical conditions; licensure, certification and enrollment with government programs; hospital rate or budget review; debt collection, limits on balance billing and billing for out of network services; communications with patients and consumers; preparing and filing of cost reports; operating policies and procedures; activities regarding competitors; addition of facilities and services; and environmental protection. among these laws are the federal anti-kickback statute, the federal stark law, the fca and similar state laws. we have a variety of financial relationships with physicians and others who either refer or influence the referral of patients to our hospitals, other health care facilities and employed physicians or who are the recipients of referrals, and these laws govern those relationships. the oig has enacted safe harbor regulations that outline practices deemed protected from prosecution under the anti-kickback statute. while we endeavor to comply with the applicable safe harbors, certain of our current arrangements, including joint ventures and financial relationships with physicians and other referral sources and persons and entities to which we refer patients, do not qualify for safe harbor protection. failure to qualify for a safe harbor does not mean the arrangement necessarily violates the anti-kickback statute but may subject the arrangement to greater scrutiny. however, we cannot offer assurance that practices outside of a safe harbor will not be found to violate the anti-kickback statute. allegations of violations of the anti-kickback statute may be brought under the federal civil monetary penalty law, which requires a lower burden of proof than other fraud and abuse laws, including the anti-kickback statute. 39 table of contents our financial relationships with referring physicians and their immediate family members must comply with the stark law by meeting an exception. we attempt to structure our relationships to meet an exception to the stark law, but the regulations implementing the exceptions are detailed and complex and are subject to continuing legal and regulatory change. thus, we cannot provide assurance that every relationship complies fully with the stark law. unlike the anti-kickback statute, failure to meet an exception under the stark law results in a violation of the stark law, even if such violation is technical in nature. additionally, if we violate the anti-kickback statute or stark law, or if we improperly bill for our services, we may be found to violate the fca, either under a suit brought by the government or by a private person under a qui tam , or whistleblower, suit. see item 1, business regulation and other factors. we also operate health care facilities in the united kingdom and have operations and commercial relationships with companies in other foreign jurisdictions and, as a result, are subject to certain u.s. and foreign laws applicable to businesses generally, including anti-corruption laws. the foreign corrupt practices act regulates u.s. companies in their dealings with foreign officials, prohibiting bribes and similar practices, and requires that they maintain records that fairly and accurately reflect transactions and appropriate internal accounting controls. in addition, the united kingdom bribery act has wide jurisdiction over certain activities that affect the united kingdom. a variety of state, national, foreign and international laws and regulations apply to the collection, use, retention, protection, security, disclosure, transfer and other processing of personal data. for example, the ccpa which affords consumers expanded privacy protections such as the right to know what personal information is collected and how it is used, went into effect on january 1, 2020. california residents also have the right to request a business to delete their personal information unless it is necessary for the business to maintain for certain purposes. they have the right to know if their personal information is being sold or shared and the right to opt-out of the sale or disclosure. failure to comply with the ccpa may result in attorney general enforcement action and damage to our reputation. the ccpa also provides for civil penalties for violations, as well as a private right of action for data breaches that may increase data breach litigation. the potential effects of this legislation are far-reaching and may require us to modify our data processing practices and policies and to incur substantial costs and expenses to comply. the european union's general data protection regulation (the gdpr ) contains stricter privacy restrictions than laws and regulations in the united states and provides for significant fines in the event of violations. these administrative fines are based on a multi-factored approach. we expect that there will continue to be new laws, regulations and industry standards concerning privacy, data protection and information security proposed and enacted in various jurisdictions, which could impact our operations and cause us to incur substantial costs. we send short message service, or sms, text messages to patients. while we obtain consent from these individuals to send text messages, federal or state regulatory authorities or private litigants may claim that the notices and disclosures we provide, form of consents we obtain or our sms texting practices are not adequate or violate applicable law. in addition, we must ensure that our sms texting practices comply with regulations and agency guidance under the telephone consumer protection act (the tcpa ), a federal statute that protects consumers from unwanted telephone calls, faxes and text messages. while we strive to adhere to strict policies and procedures that comply with the tcpa, the federal communications commission, as the agency that implements and enforces the tcpa, may disagree with our interpretation of the tcpa and subject us to penalties and other consequences for noncompliance. determination by a court or regulatory agency that our sms texting practices violate the tcpa could subject us to civil penalties and could require us to change some portions of our business. even an unsuccessful challenge by patients or regulatory authorities of our activities could result in adverse publicity and could require a costly response from and defense by us. we engage in consumer debt collection and credit reporting for hca-affiliated hospitals and certain non-affiliated hospitals. the federal fair debt collection practices act, the fair credit reporting act and the tcpa restrict the methods that companies may use to contact and seek payment from consumer debtors 40 table of contents regarding past due accounts and to report to consumer reporting agencies on the status of those accounts. many states impose additional requirements on debt collection and credit reporting practices, and some of those requirements may be more stringent than the federal requirements. if we fail to comply with these or other applicable laws and regulations, which are subject to change, we could be subject to liabilities, including civil penalties, money damages, the loss of our licenses to operate one or more facilities, exclusion of one or more facilities from participation in the medicare, medicaid and other federal and state health care programs, civil lawsuits and criminal penalties. the costs of compliance with, and the other burdens imposed by, these and other laws or regulatory actions may increase our operational costs, result in interruptions or delays in the availability of systems and/or result in a patient volume decline. we may also face audits or investigations by one or more domestic or foreign government agencies relating to our compliance with these regulations. an adverse outcome under any such investigation or audit could result in liability, result in adverse publicity, and adversely affect our business. we do not always have the benefit of significant regulatory or judicial interpretation of these laws and regulations. in the future, different interpretations or enforcement of, or amendment to, these or other laws and regulations could subject our current or past practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality or could require us to make changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel, services, capital expenditure programs and operating expenses. a determination that we have violated these or other laws, or the public announcement that we are being investigated for possible violations of these or other laws, could have a material, adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects, and our business reputation could suffer significantly. in addition, other legislation or regulations at the federal or state level may be adopted that adversely affect our business. changes to physician utilization practices and treatment methodologies, third-party payer controls designed to reduce inpatient services or surgical procedures and other factors outside our control that impact demand for medical services may reduce our revenues. controls imposed by medicare, managed medicare, medicaid, managed medicaid and private third-party payers designed to reduce admissions, intensity of services, surgical volumes and lengths of stay, in some instances referred to as utilization review, have affected and are expected to increasingly affect our facilities. utilization review entails the review of the admission and course of treatment of a patient by third-party payers, and may involve prior authorization requirements. the medicare program also issues national or local coverage determinations that restrict the circumstances under which medicare pays for certain services. inpatient utilization, average lengths of stay and occupancy rates continue to be negatively affected by third-party payers' preadmission authorization requirements, coverage restrictions, utilization review and by pressure to maximize outpatient and alternative health care delivery services for less acutely ill patients. efforts to impose more stringent cost controls are expected to continue. additionally, trends in physician treatment protocols and health plan design, such as health plans that shift increased costs and accountability for care to patients, could reduce our surgical volumes and admissions in favor of lower intensity and lower cost treatment methodologies. volume, admission and case-mix trends may be impacted by other factors beyond our control, such as changes in volume of certain high acuity services, variations in the prevalence and severity of outbreaks of influenza and other illnesses and medical conditions, seasonal and severe weather conditions, changes in treatment regimens and medical technology and other advances. these factors may reduce the demand for services we offer and decrease the reimbursement that we receive. significant limits on the scope of services reimbursed, cost controls, changes to physician utilization practices, treatment methodologies, reimbursement rates and fees and other factors beyond our control could have a material, adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. 41 table of contents our overall business results may suffer during periods of general economic weakness. budget deficits at federal, state and local government entities have had a negative impact on spending, and may continue to negatively impact spending, for health and human service programs, including medicare, medicaid and similar programs, which represent significant third-party payer sources for our hospitals. we anticipate that the federal deficit, the growing magnitude of medicare and medicaid expenditures and the aging of the united states population will continue to place pressure on government health care programs. other risks we face during periods of economic weakness and high unemployment include potential declines in the population covered under managed care agreements, increased patient decisions to postpone or cancel elective and nonemergency health care procedures (including delaying surgical procedures), potential increases in the uninsured and underinsured populations, increased adoption of health plan structures that shift financial responsibility to patients and further difficulties in collecting patient receivables for copayment and deductible receivables. the industry trend toward value-based purchasing may negatively impact our revenues. there is a trend in the health care industry toward value-based purchasing of health care services. these value-based purchasing programs include both public reporting of quality data and preventable adverse events tied to the quality and efficiency of care provided by facilities. governmental programs including medicare currently require hospitals to report certain quality data to receive full reimbursement updates. in addition, medicare does not reimburse for care related to certain preventable adverse events (also called never events ). the affordable care act also prohibits the use of federal funds under the medicaid program to reimburse providers for medical assistance provided to treat hacs. the 25% of hospitals with the worst risk-adjusted hac scores in the designated performance period receive a 1% reduction in their inpatient pps medicare payments. hospitals with excess readmission rates for conditions designated by hhs receive a reduction in their inpatient pps operating medicare payments for all medicare inpatient discharges, not just discharges relating to the conditions subject to the excess readmission standard. the reduction in payments to hospitals with excess readmissions can be up to 3% of a hospital's base payments. hhs has implemented a value-based purchasing program for inpatient hospital services that reduces inpatient hospital payments for all discharges by 2% in each federal fiscal year. hhs pools the amount collected from these reductions to fund payments to reward hospitals that meet or exceed certain quality performance standards established by hhs. hhs estimates that $1.9 billion in value-based incentive payments will be available to hospitals in federal fiscal year 2020 based on achievement (relative to other hospitals) and improvement (relative to the hospital's own past performance). hospitals that meet or exceed the quality performance standards will receive greater reimbursement under the value-based purchasing program than they would have otherwise. cms has developed several alternative payment models that are intended to reduce costs and improve quality of care for medicare beneficiaries and has signaled its intent to have states apply similar strategies in the medicaid context. examples of alternative payment models include bundled payment models in which, depending on whether overall cms spending per episode exceeds or falls below a target specified by cms and whether quality standards are met, hospitals may receive supplemental medicare payments or owe repayments to cms. generally, participation in bundled payment programs is voluntary, but cms requires hospitals in selected markets to participate in a bundled payment initiative for orthopedic services, which is scheduled to run through december 2020. cms has indicated that it is developing more voluntary and mandatory bundled payment models. participation in mandatory or voluntary demonstration projects, particularly demonstrations with the potential to affect payment, may negatively impact our results of operations. some private third-party payers are also transitioning toward alternative payment models or implementing other value-based care strategies. for example, many large private third-party payers currently require hospitals 42 table of contents to report quality data, and several private third-party payers do not reimburse hospitals for certain preventable adverse events. further, we have implemented a policy pursuant to which we do not bill patients or third-party payers for fees or expenses incurred due to certain preventable adverse events. we expect value-based purchasing programs, including programs that condition reimbursement on patient outcome measures, to become more common and to involve a higher percentage of reimbursement amounts. it is unclear whether these and other alternative payment models will successfully coordinate care and reduce costs or whether they will decrease aggregate reimbursement. we are unable at this time to predict our future payments or whether we will be subject to payment reductions under these programs or how this trend will affect our results of operations. if we are unable to meet or exceed the quality performance standards under any applicable value-based purchasing program, perform at a level below the outcomes demonstrated by our competitors, or otherwise fail to effectively provide or coordinate the efficient delivery of quality health care services, our reputation in the industry may be negatively impacted, we may receive reduced reimbursement amounts and we may owe repayments to payers, causing our revenues to decline. we have been and could become the subject of government investigations, claims and litigation. health care companies are subject to numerous investigations by various government agencies. further, under the fca, private parties have the right to bring qui tam , or whistleblower, suits against companies that submit false claims for payments to, or improperly retain overpayments from, the government. some states have adopted similar state whistleblower and false claims provisions. certain of our individual facilities and/or affiliates have received, and other facilities and/or affiliates may receive, government inquiries from, and may be subject to investigation by, federal and state agencies. depending on whether the underlying conduct in these or future inquiries or investigations could be considered systemic, their resolution could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. government agencies and their agents, such as the macs, fiscal intermediaries and carriers, as well as the oig, cms and state medicaid programs, conduct audits of our health care operations. cms and state medicaid agencies contract with racs and other contractors on a contingency fee basis to conduct post-payment reviews to detect and correct improper payments in the medicare program, including managed medicare plans, and the medicaid programs. rac denials are appealable; however, there are currently significant delays in the medicare appeals process, which negatively impacts our ability to appeal rac payment denials. private third-party payers may conduct similar post-payment audits, and we also perform internal audits and monitoring. depending on the nature of the conduct found in such audits and whether the underlying conduct could be considered systemic, the resolution of these audits could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. should we be found out of compliance with applicable laws, regulations or programs, depending on the nature of the findings, our business, our financial position and our results of operations could be negatively impacted. health care technology initiatives, particularly those related to patient data and interoperability, may adversely affect our operations. the federal government is working to promote the adoption of health information technology and the promotion of nationwide health information exchange to improve health care. for example, hhs incentivizes the adoption and meaningful use of certified ehr technology through its promoting interoperability programs. eligible hospitals and eligible professionals, including our hospitals and employed professionals, are subject to reduced payments from medicare if they fail to demonstrate meaningful use of certified ehr technology. as these technologies have become widespread, the focus has shifted to increasing patient access to health care data and interoperability. the 21 st century cures act prohibits information blocking by health care providers and certain other entities, which is defined as engaging in activities likely to interfere with, prevent, or materially 43 table of contents discourage access, exchange or use of electronic health information, except as required by law or specified by hhs as a reasonable and necessary activity. current and future initiatives related to health care technology and interoperability may require changes to our operations, impose new and complex compliance obligations and require investments in infrastructure. we may be subject to financial penalties for failure to comply. it is difficult to predict how these initiatives will affect our relationships with providers and vendors, participation in health care information exchanges or networks, the exchange of patient data, and patient engagement. the emergence and effects related to a pandemic, epidemic or outbreak of an infectious disease could adversely affect our operations. if a pandemic, epidemic, outbreak of an infectious disease or other public health crisis were to occur in an area in which we operate, our operations could be adversely affected. such a crisis could diminish the public trust in health care facilities, especially hospitals that fail to accurately or timely diagnose, or are treating (or have treated) patients affected by infectious diseases. if any of our facilities were involved, or perceived as being involved, in treating patients from such an infectious disease, patients might cancel elective procedures or fail to seek needed care at our facilities, and our reputation may be negatively affected. further, a pandemic, epidemic or outbreak might adversely affect our operations by causing a temporary shutdown or diversion of patients, by disrupting or delaying production and delivery of materials and products in the supply chain or by causing staffing shortages in our facilities. we have disaster plans in place and operate pursuant to infectious disease protocols, but the potential emergence of a pandemic, epidemic or outbreak is difficult to predict and could adversely affect our operations. state efforts to regulate the construction or expansion of health care facilities could impair our ability to operate and expand our operations. some states, particularly in the eastern part of the country, require health care providers to obtain prior approval, often known as a con, for the purchase, construction or expansion of health care facilities, to make certain capital expenditures or to make changes in services or bed capacity. in giving approval, these states consider the need for additional or expanded health care facilities or services. we currently operate health care facilities in a number of states with con laws or that require other types of approvals for the establishment or expansion of certain facility types or services. the failure to obtain any required con or other required approval could impair our ability to operate or expand operations. any such failure could, in turn, adversely affect our ability to attract patients and physicians to our facilities and grow our revenues, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. we may encounter difficulty acquiring hospitals and other health care businesses, encounter challenges integrating the operations of acquired hospitals and other health care businesses and become liable for unknown or contingent liabilities as a result of acquisitions. a component of our business strategy is acquiring hospitals and other health care businesses. we may encounter difficulty acquiring new facilities or other businesses as a result of competition from other purchasers that may be willing to pay purchase prices that are higher than we believe are reasonable. some states require cons in order to acquire a hospital or other facility or to expand facilities or services. in addition, the acquisition of health care facilities often involves licensure approvals or reviews and complex change of ownership processes for medicare and other payers. further, many states have laws that restrict the conversion or sale of not-for-profit hospitals to for-profit entities. these laws may require prior approval from the state attorney general, advance notification of the attorney general or other regulators and community involvement. attorneys general in states without specific requirements may exercise broad discretionary authority over transactions involving the sale of not-for-profits under their general obligations to protect the use of charitable assets. these legislative and administrative efforts often focus on the appropriate valuation of the assets divested and the use of the proceeds of the sale by the non-profit seller and may include consideration of commitments for capital improvements and charity care by the purchaser. also, the increasingly challenging regulatory and enforcement 44 table of contents environment may negatively impact our ability to acquire health care businesses if they are found to have material unresolved compliance issues, such as repayment obligations. resolving compliance issues as well as completion of oversight, review or approval processes could seriously delay or even prevent our ability to acquire hospitals or other businesses and increase our acquisition costs. we may be unable to timely and effectively integrate hospitals and other businesses that we acquire with our ongoing operations, or we may experience delays implementing operating procedures and systems. hospitals and other health care businesses that we acquire may have unknown or contingent liabilities, including liabilities for failure to comply with health care and other laws and regulations, medical and general professional liabilities, workers' compensation liabilities and tax liabilities. although we typically exclude significant liabilities from our acquisition transactions and seek indemnification from the sellers for these matters, we could experience difficulty enforcing those obligations, experience liability in excess of any indemnification obtained or otherwise incur material liabilities for the pre-acquisition conduct of acquired businesses. such liabilities and related legal or other costs could harm our business and results of operations. our facilities are heavily concentrated in florida and texas, which makes us sensitive to regulatory, economic, environmental and competitive conditions and changes in those states. we operated 184 hospitals at december 31, 2019, and 91 of those hospitals are located in florida and texas. our florida and texas facilities' combined revenues represented approximately 48% of our consolidated revenues for the year ended december 31, 2019. this concentration makes us particularly sensitive to regulatory, economic, environmental and competitive conditions and changes in those states. any material change in the current payment programs or regulatory, economic, environmental or competitive conditions in those states could have a disproportionate effect on our overall business results. in addition, our hospitals in florida, texas and other coastal states are located in hurricane-prone areas. in the past, hurricanes have had a disruptive effect on the operations of our hospitals in florida, texas and other coastal states and the patient populations in those states. our business activities could be harmed by a particularly active hurricane season or even a single storm, either of which may be intensified by climate change, and the property insurance we obtain may not be adequate to cover losses from future hurricanes or other natural disasters. we may be subject to liabilities from claims by taxing authorities. we are subject to examination by federal, state and foreign taxing authorities. management believes hca healthcare, inc., its predecessors, subsidiaries and affiliates properly reported taxable income and paid taxes in accordance with applicable laws and agreements established with the irs, state and foreign taxing authorities and final resolution of any disputes will not have a material, adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. however, if payments due upon final resolution of any issues exceed our recorded estimates, such resolutions could have a material, adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. we may be subject to liabilities from claims brought against our facilities. we are subject to litigation relating to our business practices, including claims and legal actions by patients and others in the ordinary course of business alleging malpractice, product liability or other legal theories. many of these actions seek large sums of money as damages and involve significant defense costs. we insure a portion of our professional liability risks through a 100% owned insurance subsidiary. management believes our reserves for self-insured retentions and insurance coverage are sufficient to cover insured claims arising out of the operation of our facilities. our 100% owned insurance subsidiary has entered into certain reinsurance contracts; however, the subsidiary remains liable to the extent that the reinsurers do not meet their obligations under the reinsurance contracts. if payments for claims exceed actuarially determined estimates, are not covered by insurance, or reinsurers, if any, fail to meet their obligations, our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected. 45 table of contents we are exposed to market risk related to changes in the market values of securities and interest rate changes. we are exposed to market risk related to changes in market values of securities. the investments of our 100% owned insurance subsidiaries were $462 million at december 31, 2019. these investments are carried at fair value, with changes in unrealized gains and losses being recorded as adjustments to other comprehensive income. at december 31, 2019, we had a net unrealized gain of $18 million on the insurance subsidiaries' investment securities. we are exposed to market risk related to market illiquidity. investment securities of our 100% owned insurance subsidiaries could be impaired by the inability to access the capital markets. should the 100% owned insurance subsidiaries require significant amounts of cash in excess of normal cash requirements to pay claims and other expenses on short notice, we may have difficulty selling these investments in a timely manner or be forced to sell them at a price less than what we might otherwise have been able to in a normal market environment. we may be required to recognize credit-related impairments on long-term investments in future periods should issuers default on interest payments or should the fair market valuations of the securities deteriorate due to ratings downgrades or other issue specific factors. we are also exposed to market risk related to changes in interest rates that impact the amount of the interest expense we incur with respect to our floating rate obligations as well as the value of certain investments. we periodically enter into interest rate swap agreements to manage our exposure to these fluctuations. our interest rate swap agreements involve the exchange of fixed and variable rate interest payments between two parties, based on common notional principal amounts and maturity dates. the notional amounts of the swap agreements represent balances used to calculate the exchange of cash flows and are not our assets or liabilities. discontinuation, reform or replacement of libor may adversely affect our business. as of december 31, 2019, we had $6.205 billion of borrowings under our senior secured credit facilities that bore interest at a floating rate based on libor and $3.237 billion of unfunded commitments under those facilities. the u.k. financial conduct authority announced in 2017 that it intends to phase out libor by the end of 2021. if the phase out occurs as planned, the interest rate applicable to our floating rate debt will be calculated based on an alternative, comparable or successor rate which may have a material adverse impact on the cost of the floating rate portion of our indebtedness. the timing and result of the phase out of libor are unclear, and efforts of industry groups to develop a suitable successor are not guaranteed to result in a viable or widely adopted replacement for libor. if libor becomes unavailable before a suitable replacement is widely adopted, it could have a material adverse impact on the availability of floating rate financing. as of december 31, 2019, we also had $2.500 billion of interest rate swap agreements based on libor. if libor becomes unavailable, it is unclear how payments under those agreements would be calculated. relevant industry groups are seeking to create a standard protocol addressing the expected discontinuation of libor, but there can be no assurance that such a protocol will be developed or implemented with respect to our swap agreements. there can be no assurance that we will continue to pay dividends. in january 2018, the board of directors initiated a cash dividend program under which the company commenced and expects to continue to pay a regular quarterly cash dividend. the declaration, amount and timing of such dividends are subject to capital availability and determinations by our board of directors that cash dividends are in the best interest of our stockholders and are in compliance with all respective laws and our agreements applicable to the declaration and payment of cash dividends. our ability to pay dividends will depend upon, among other factors, our cash flows from operations, our available capital and potential future capital requirements for strategic transactions, including acquisitions, debt service requirements, share repurchases and investing in our existing markets as well as our results of operations, financial condition and other factors beyond our control that our board of directors may deem relevant. a reduction in or elimination of our dividend payments could have a negative effect on our stock price. 46 table of contents certain of our investors may continue to have influence over us. on november 17, 2006, hca inc. was acquired by a private investor group, including affiliates of hca founder, dr. thomas f. frist, jr. and certain other investors. through their investment in hercules holding ii and other holdings, certain of the frist-affiliated investors continue to hold a significant interest in our outstanding common stock (approximately 21% as of january 31, 2020). in addition, pursuant to a shareholders agreement we entered into with hercules holding ii and the frist-affiliated investors, certain representatives of these investors have the continued right to nominate certain of the members of our board of directors. as a result, certain of these investors potentially have the ability to influence our decisions to enter into corporate transactions (and the terms thereof) and prevent changes in the composition of our board of directors and any transaction that requires stockholder approval. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 7 3 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information with respect to this item is provided under the caption market risk under item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations.