risk factors you should carefully consider the following risk factors in addition to the other information included in this annual report on form 10-k. each of these risk factors could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our common stock. our operating results and our future rate of growth are exposed to the effects of changing commodity prices and refining and petrochemical margins. our revenues, operating results and future rate of growth are highly dependent on a number of factors, including fixed and variable expenses (including the cost of crude oil and other refinery feedstocks) and the margin relative to those expenses at which we are able to sell refined products. in recent years, the prices of crude oil and refined products have fluctuated substantially. these prices depend on numerous factors beyond our control, including the global supply and demand for crude oil, gasoline and other refined products, which are subject to, among other things: changes in the global economy and the level of foreign and domestic production of crude oil and refined products. availability of crude oil and refined products and the infrastructure to transport crude oil and refined products. local factors, including market conditions, the level of operations of other refineries in our markets, and the volume of refined products imported. threatened or actual terrorist incidents, acts of war and other global political conditions. government regulations. weather conditions, hurricanes or other natural disasters. the price of crude oil influences prices for refined products. we do not produce crude oil and must purchase all of the crude oil we process. many crude oils available on the world market will not meet the quality restrictions for use in our refineries. others are not economical to use due to excessive transportation costs or for other reasons. the prices for crude oil and refined products can fluctuate differently based on global, regional and local market conditions. in addition, the timing of the relative movement of the prices (both among different classes of refined products and among various global markets for similar refined products), as well as the overall change in refined product prices, can reduce refining margins and could have a significant impact on our refining, wholesale marketing and retail operations, revenues, operating income and cash flows. also, crude oil supply contracts generally have market-responsive pricing provisions. we normally purchase our refinery feedstocks weeks before manufacturing and selling the refined products. price level changes during the period between purchasing feedstocks and selling the refined products from these feedstocks could have a significant effect on our financial results. we also purchase refined products produced by others for sale to our customers. price level changes during the periods between purchasing and selling these refined products also could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. uncertainty and illiquidity in credit and capital markets can impair our ability to obtain credit and financing on acceptable terms and can adversely affect the financial strength of our business partners. our ability to obtain credit and capital depends in large measure on the state of the credit and capital markets, which is beyond our control. our ability to access credit and capital markets may be restricted at a time when we would like, or need, access to those markets, which could constrain our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. in addition, the cost and availability of debt and equity financing may be adversely impacted by unstable or illiquid market conditions. protracted uncertainty and illiquidity in these markets also could have an adverse impact on our lenders, commodity hedging counterparties, or our customers, preventing them from meeting their obligations to us. from time to time, our cash needs may exceed our internally generated cash flow, and our business could be materially and adversely affected if we are unable to obtain necessary funds from financing activities. from time to time, we may need to supplement our cash generated from operations with proceeds from financing activities. uncertainty and illiquidity in financial markets may materially impact the ability of the participating financial institutions to fund their commitments to us under our liquidity facilities. accordingly, we may not be able to obtain the full amount of the funds available under our liquidity facilities to satisfy our cash requirements, and our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial position. 16 table of contents index to financial statements deterioration in our credit profile could increase our costs of borrowing money and limit our access to the capital markets and commercial credit, and could trigger co-venturer rights under joint venture arrangements. our credit ratings could be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, the circumstances warrant. if a rating agency were to downgrade our rating below investment grade, our borrowing costs would increase, and our funding sources could decrease. in addition, a failure by us to maintain an investment grade rating could affect our business relationships with suppliers and operating partners. for example, our agreement with chevron regarding cpchem permits chevron to buy our 50 percent interest in cpchem for fair market value if we experience a change in control or if both s&amp;p and moody's lower our credit ratings below investment grade and the credit rating from either rating agency remains below investment grade for 365 days thereafter, with fair market value determined by agreement or by nationally recognized investment banks. as a result of these factors, a downgrade of our credit ratings could have a materially adverse impact on our future operations and financial position. we expect to continue to incur substantial capital expenditures and operating costs as a result of our compliance with existing and future environmental laws and regulations. likewise, future environmental laws and regulations may impact or limit our current business plans and reduce demand for our products. our business is subject to numerous laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. these laws and regulations continue to increase in both number and complexity and affect our operations with respect to, among other things: the discharge of pollutants into the environment. emissions into the atmosphere (such as nitrogen oxides, sulfur dioxide and mercury emissions, and greenhouse gas emissions as they are, or may become, regulated). the handling, use, storage, transportation, disposal and clean up of hazardous materials and hazardous and nonhazardous wastes. the dismantlement, abandonment and restoration of our properties and facilities at the end of their useful lives. we have incurred and will continue to incur substantial capital, operating and maintenance, and remediation expenditures as a result of these laws and regulations. to the extent these expenditures, as with all costs, are not ultimately reflected in the prices of our products and services, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in future periods could be materially adversely affected. to the extent there are significant changes in the earth's climate, such as more severe or frequent weather conditions in the markets we serve or the areas where our assets reside, we could incur increased expenses, our operations could be materially impacted, and demand for our products could fall. domestic and worldwide political and economic developments could damage our operations and materially reduce our profitability and cash flows. actions of the u.s., state, local and international governments through tax and other legislation, executive order and commercial restrictions could reduce our operating profitability both in the united states and abroad. the u.s. government can prevent or restrict us from doing business in foreign countries. these restrictions and those of foreign governments could limit our ability to operate in, or gain access to, opportunities in various countries, as well as limit our ability to obtain the optimum slate of crude oil and other refinery feedstocks. our foreign operations and those of our joint ventures are further subject to risks of loss of revenue, equipment and property as a result of expropriation, acts of terrorism, war, civil unrest and other political risks; unilateral or forced renegotiation, modification or nullification of existing contracts with governmental entities; and difficulties enforcing rights against a governmental agency because of the doctrine of sovereign immunity and foreign sovereignty over international operations. actions by both the united states and host governments may affect our operations significantly in the future. renewable fuels, alternative energy mandates and energy conservation efforts could reduce demand for refined products. tax incentives and other subsidies can make renewable fuels and alternative energy more competitive with refined products than they otherwise might be, which may reduce refined product margins and hinder the ability of refined products to compete with renewable fuels. 17 table of contents index to financial statements large capital projects can take many years to complete, and market conditions could deteriorate significantly between the project approval date and the project startup date, negatively impacting project returns. to approve a large-scale capital project, the project must meet an acceptable level of return on the capital to be employed in the project. we base these forecasted project economics on our best estimate of future market conditions. most large-scale projects take many years to complete. during this multi-year period, market conditions can change from those we forecast, and these changes could be significant. accordingly, we may not be able to realize our expected returns from a large investment in a capital project, and this could negatively impact our results of operations, cash flows and our return on capital employed. our investments in joint ventures decrease our ability to manage risk. we conduct some of our operations, including a large part of our midstream segment and our entire chemicals segment, through joint ventures in which we share control with our joint venture participants. our joint venture participants may have economic, business or legal interests or goals that are inconsistent with those of the joint venture or us, or our joint venture participants may be unable to meet their economic or other obligations, and we may be required to fulfill those obligations alone. failure by us, or an entity in which we have a joint-venture interest, to adequately manage the risks associated with any acquisitions or joint ventures could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition or results of operations of our joint ventures and, in turn, our business and operations. activities in our chemicals and midstream segments involve numerous risks that may result in accidents or otherwise affect the ability of our equity affiliates to make distributions to us. there are a variety of hazards and operating risks inherent in the manufacture of petrochemicals and the gathering, processing, transmission, storage, and distribution of natural gas and ngl, such as spills, leaks, explosions and mechanical problems that could cause substantial financial losses. in addition, these risks could result in significant injury, loss of human life, damage to property, environmental pollution and impairment of operations, any of which could result in substantial losses. for assets located near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers, industrial sites and other public gathering areas, the level of damage resulting from these risks could be greater. should any of these risks materialize, it could have a material adverse effect on the business and financial condition of cpchem, dcp midstream or rex and negatively impact their ability to make future distributions to us. our operations present hazards and risks, which may not be fully covered by insurance, if insured. if a significant accident or event occurs for which we are not adequately insured, our operations and financial results could be adversely affected. the scope and nature of our operations present a variety of operational hazards and risks, including explosions, fires, toxic emissions, maritime hazards and natural catastrophes, that must be managed through continual oversight and control. for example, the operation of refineries, power plants, fractionators, pipelines and terminals is inherently subject to the risks of spills, discharges or other inadvertent releases of petroleum or hazardous substances. if any of these events had previously occurred or occurs in the future in connection with any of our refineries, pipelines or refined products terminals, or in connection with any facilities that receive our wastes or by-products for treatment or disposal, other than events for which we are indemnified, we could be liable for all costs and penalties associated with their remediation under federal, state, local and international environmental laws or common law, and could be liable for property damage to third-parties caused by contamination from releases and spills. these and other risks are present throughout our operations. as protection against these hazards and risks, we maintain insurance against many, but not all, potential losses or liabilities arising from such operating risks. as such, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to fully cover us against potential losses arising from such risks. uninsured losses and liabilities arising from operating risks could reduce the funds available to us for capital and investment spending and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are subject to interruptions of supply and increased costs as a result of our reliance on third-party transportation of crude oil and refined products. we often utilize the services of third parties to transport crude oil, ngl and refined products to and from our facilities. in addition to our own operational risks discussed above, we could experience interruptions of supply or increases in costs to deliver refined products to market if the ability of the pipelines or vessels to transport crude oil or refined products is disrupted because of weather events, accidents, governmental regulations or third-party actions. a prolonged disruption of the ability of a pipeline or vessel to transport crude oil or refined product to or from one or more of our refineries could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 18 table of contents index to financial statements increased regulation of hydraulic fracturing could result in reductions or delays in u.s. production of crude oil and natural gas, which could adversely impact our results of operations. an increasing percentage of crude oil supplied to our refineries and the oil and gas production of dcp midstream's customers is being developed from unconventional sources, such as deep oil and gas shales. these reservoirs require hydraulic fracturing completion processes to release the hydrocarbons from the rock so it can flow through casing to the surface. hydraulic fracturing involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into the formation to stimulate hydrocarbon production. the u.s. environmental protection agency, as well as several state agencies, have commenced studies and/or convened hearings regarding the potential environmental impacts of hydraulic fracturing activities. at the same time, certain environmental groups have suggested that additional laws may be needed to more closely and uniformly regulate the hydraulic fracturing process, and legislation has been proposed to provide for such regulation. we cannot predict whether any such legislation will ever be enacted and, if so, what its provisions would be. any additional levels of regulation and permits required with the adoption of new laws and regulations at the federal or state level could result in our having to rely on higher priced crude oil for our refineries and lead to delays, increased operating costs and process prohibitions that could reduce the volumes of natural gas that move through dcp midstream's gathering systems. this could materially adversely affect our results of operations and the ability of dcp midstream to make cash distributions to us. because of the natural decline in production from existing wells in dcp midstream's areas of operation, its success depends on its ability to obtain new sources of natural gas and ngl. any decrease in the volumes of natural gas dcp midstream gathers could adversely affect its business and operating results. dcp midstream's gathering and transportation pipeline systems are connected to or dependent on the level of production from natural gas wells, from which production will naturally decline over time. as a result, its cash flows associated with these wells will also decline over time. in order to maintain or increase throughput levels on its gathering and transportation pipeline systems and ngl pipelines and the asset utilization rates at its natural gas processing plants, dcp midstream must continually obtain new supplies. the primary factors affecting dcp midstream's ability to obtain new supplies of natural gas and ngl, and to attract new customers to its assets, include the level of successful drilling activity near these assets, the demand for natural gas and crude oil, producers' desire and ability to obtain necessary permits in an efficient manner, natural gas field characteristics and production performance, surface access and infrastructure issues, and its ability to compete for volumes from successful new wells. if dcp midstream is not able to obtain new supplies of natural gas to replace the natural decline in volumes from existing wells or because of competition, throughput on its pipelines and the utilization rates of its treating and processing facilities would decline. this could have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows, and its ability to make cash distributions to us. competitors that produce their own supply of feedstocks, have more extensive retail outlets, or have greater financial resources may have a competitive advantage. the refining and marketing industry is highly competitive with respect to both feedstock supply and refined product markets. we compete with many companies for available supplies of crude oil and other feedstocks and for outlets for our refined products. we do not produce any of our crude oil feedstocks. some of our competitors, however, obtain a portion of their feedstocks from their own production and some have more extensive retail outlets than we have. competitors that have their own production or extensive retail outlets (and greater brand-name recognition) are at times able to offset losses from refining operations with profits from producing or retailing operations, and may be better positioned to withstand periods of depressed refining margins or feedstock shortages. some of our competitors also have materially greater financial and other resources than we have. such competitors have a greater ability to bear the economic risks inherent in all phases of our business. in addition, we compete with other industries that provide alternative means to satisfy the energy and fuel requirements of our industrial, commercial and individual customers. we may incur losses as a result of our forward-contract activities and derivative transactions. we currently use commodity derivative instruments, and we expect to continue their use in the future. if the instruments we utilize to hedge our exposure to various types of risk are not effective, we may incur losses. derivative transactions involve the risk that counterparties may be unable to satisfy their obligations to us. if any of our counterparties were to default on its obligations to us under the hedging contracts or seek bankruptcy protection, it could have an adverse effect on our ability to fund our planned activities and could result in a larger percentage of our future production being subject to commodity price changes. the risk of counterparty default is heightened in a poor economic environment. 19 table of contents index to financial statements a significant interruption in one or more of our facilities could adversely affect our business. our operations could be subject to significant interruption if one or more of our facilities were to experience a major accident or mechanical failure, power outage, encounter work stoppages relating to organized labor issues, be damaged by severe weather or other natural or man-made disaster, such as an act of terrorism, or otherwise be forced to shut down. if any facility were to experience an interruption in operations, earnings from the facility could be materially adversely affected (to the extent not recoverable through insurance, if insured) because of lost production and repair costs. a significant interruption in one or more of our facilities could also lead to increased volatility in prices for feedstocks and refined products, and could increase instability in the financial and insurance markets, making it more difficult for us to access capital and to obtain insurance coverage that we consider adequate. our performance depends on the uninterrupted operation of our facilities, which are becoming increasingly dependent on our information technology systems. our performance depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of the manufacturing equipment in our production facilities. the inability to operate one or more of our facilities due to a natural disaster; power outage; labor dispute; or failure of one or more of our information technology, telecommunications, or other systems could significantly impair our ability to manufacture our products. our manufacturing equipment is becoming increasingly dependent on our information technology systems. a disruption in our information technology systems due to a catastrophic event or security breach could interrupt or damage our operations. in addition, we could be subject to reputational harm or liability if confidential customer information is misappropriated from our information technology systems. despite our security measures and business continuity plans, these systems could be vulnerable to disruption, and any such disruption could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. the level of returns on pension and postretirement plan assets and the actuarial assumptions used for valuation purposes could affect our earnings and cash flows in future periods. assumptions used in determining projected benefit obligations and the expected return on plan assets for our pension plan and other postretirement benefit plans are evaluated by us in consultation with outside actuaries. if we determine that changes are warranted in the assumptions used, such as the discount rate, expected long-term rate of return, or health care cost trend rate, our future pension and postretirement benefit expenses and funding requirements could increase. in addition, several factors could result in actual results differing significantly from the actuarial assumptions that we use. funding obligations are determined based on the value of assets and liabilities on a specific date as required under relevant regulations. future pension funding requirements, and the timing of funding payments, could be affected by legislation enacted by governmental authorities. in connection with the separation, conocophillips has agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities and we have agreed to indemnify conocophillips for certain liabilities. if we are required to act on these indemnities to conocophillips, we may need to divert cash to meet those obligations and our financial results could be negatively impacted. the conocophillips indemnity may not be sufficient to insure us against the full amount of liabilities for which it has been allocated responsibility, and conocophillips may not be able to satisfy its indemnification obligations in the future. pursuant to the indemnification and release agreement and certain other agreements with conocophillips entered into in connection with the separation, conocophillips agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities, and we agreed to indemnify conocophillips for certain liabilities. indemnities that we may be required to provide conocophillips are not subject to any cap, may be significant and could negatively impact our business, particularly indemnities relating to our actions that could impact the tax-free nature of the distribution of phillips 66 stock. third parties could also seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities that conocophillips has agreed to retain. further, the indemnity from conocophillips may not be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, and conocophillips may not be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations. moreover, even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from conocophillips any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear these losses ourselves. each of these risks could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. we are subject to continuing contingent liabilities of conocophillips following the separation. notwithstanding the separation, there are several significant areas where the liabilities of conocophillips may become our obligations. for example, under the internal revenue code and the related rules and regulations, each corporation that was a member of the conocophillips consolidated u.s. federal income tax reporting group during any taxable period or portion of any taxable period ending on or before the effective time of the separation is jointly and severally liable for the u.s. federal 20 table of contents index to financial statements income tax liability of the entire conocophillips consolidated tax reporting group for that taxable period. in connection with the separation, we entered into the tax sharing agreement with conocophillips that allocates the responsibility for prior period taxes of the conocophillips consolidated tax reporting group between us and conocophillips. conocophillips may be unable to pay any prior period taxes for which it is responsible, and we could be required to pay the entire amount of such taxes. other provisions of federal law establish similar liability for other matters, including laws governing tax-qualified pension plans as well as other contingent liabilities. if the distribution in connection with the separation, together with certain related transactions, does not qualify as a transaction that is generally tax-free for u.s. federal income tax purposes, our stockholders and conocophillips could be subject to significant tax liability and, in certain circumstances, we could be required to indemnify conocophillips for material taxes pursuant to indemnification obligations under the tax sharing agreement. conocophillips received a private letter ruling from the internal revenue service (irs) substantially to the effect that, among other things, the distribution, together with certain related transactions, qualified as a transaction that is generally tax-free for u.s. federal income tax purposes under sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(d) of the code. the private letter ruling and the tax opinion that conocophillips received relied on certain representations, assumptions and undertakings, including those relating to the past and future conduct of our business, and neither the private letter ruling nor the opinion would be valid if such representations, assumptions and undertakings were incorrect. moreover, the private letter ruling does not address all the issues that are relevant to determining whether the distribution qualified for tax-free treatment. notwithstanding the private letter ruling and the tax opinion, the irs could determine the distribution should be treated as a taxable transaction for u.s. federal income tax purposes if it determines any of the representations, assumptions or undertakings that were included in the request for the private letter ruling are false or have been violated or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion that are not covered by the irs ruling. if the irs were to determine that the distribution failed to qualify for tax-free treatment, in general, conocophillips would be subject to tax as if it had sold the phillips 66 common stock in a taxable sale for its fair market value, and conocophillips stockholders who received shares of phillips 66 common stock in the distribution would be subject to tax as if they had received a taxable distribution equal to the fair market value of such shares. under the tax sharing agreement, we would generally be required to indemnify conocophillips against any tax resulting from the distribution to the extent that such tax resulted from (i) an acquisition of all or a portion of our stock or assets, whether by merger or otherwise, (ii) other actions or failures to act by us, or (iii) any of our representations or undertakings being incorrect or violated. our indemnification obligations to conocophillips and its subsidiaries, officers and directors are not limited by any maximum amount. if we are required to indemnify conocophillips or such other persons under the circumstances set forth in the tax sharing agreement, we may be subject to substantial liabilities. we may not be able to engage in desirable strategic or capital-raising transactions due to limitations imposed on us as part of the separation. in addition, under some circumstances, we could be liable for adverse tax consequences resulting from engaging in significant strategic or capital-raising transactions. to preserve the tax-free treatment to conocophillips of the distribution, for the two-year period following the distribution we may be prohibited, except in specified circumstances, from: entering into any transaction pursuant to which all or a portion of our stock would be acquired, whether by merger or otherwise. issuing equity securities beyond certain thresholds. repurchasing our common stock beyond certain thresholds. ceasing to actively conduct the refining business. taking or failing to take any other action that prevents the distribution and related transactions from being tax-free. these restrictions may limit our ability to pursue strategic transactions or engage in new business or other transactions that may maximize the value of our business. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk financial instrument market risk we and certain of our subsidiaries hold and issue derivative contracts and financial instruments that expose our cash flows or earnings to changes in commodity prices, foreign currency exchange rates or interest rates. we may use financial- and commodity-based derivative contracts to manage the risks produced by changes in the prices of crude oil and related products, natural gas and electric power; fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates; or to capture market opportunities. our use of derivative instruments is governed by an authority limitations document approved by our board of directors that prohibits the use of highly leveraged derivatives or derivative instruments without sufficient market liquidity for comparable valuations. the authority limitations document also establishes the value at risk (var) limits for us, and compliance with these limits is monitored daily. our chief financial officer monitors risks resulting from foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. our executive vice president over the commercial organization monitors commodity price risk. the commercial organization manages our commercial marketing, optimizes our commodity flows and positions, and monitors related risks of our businesses. commodity price risk we sell into or receive supply from the worldwide crude oil, refined products, natural gas, ngl, and electric power markets and are exposed to fluctuations in the prices for these commodities. these fluctuations can affect our revenues and purchases, as well as the cost of operating, investing and financing activities. generally, our policy is to remain exposed to the market prices of commodities. our commercial organization uses futures, forwards, swaps and options in various markets to optimize the value of our supply chain, which may move our risk profile away from market average prices to accomplish the following objectives: balance physical systems. in addition to cash settlement prior to contract expiration, exchange-traded futures contracts also may be settled by physical delivery of the commodity, providing another source of supply to meet our refinery requirements or marketing demand. meet customer needs. consistent with our policy to generally remain exposed to market prices, we use swap contracts to convert fixed-price sales contracts, which are often requested by refined product consumers, to a floating-market price. manage the risk to our cash flows from price exposures on specific crude oil, refined product, natural gas, and electric power transactions. enable us to use the market knowledge gained from these activities to capture market opportunities such as moving physical commodities to more profitable locations, storing commodities to capture seasonal or time premiums, and blending commodities to capture quality upgrades. derivatives may be utilized to optimize these activities. we use a var model to estimate the loss in fair value that could potentially result on a single day from the effect of adverse changes in market conditions on the derivative financial instruments and derivative commodity instruments held or issued, including commodity purchase and sales contracts recorded on the balance sheet at december 31, 2012, as derivative instruments. using monte carlo simulation, a 95 percent confidence level and a one-day holding period, the var for those instruments issued or held for trading purposes at december 31, 2012 and 2011, was immaterial to our cash flows and net income. the var for instruments held for purposes other than trading at december 31, 2012 and 2011, was also immaterial to our cash flows and net income. interest rate risk the following table provides information about our debt instruments that are sensitive to changes in u.s. interest rates. the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted-average interest rates by expected maturity dates. weighted-average variable rates are based on effective rates at the reporting date. the carrying amount of our floating-rate debt approximates its fair value. the fair value of the fixed-rate financial instruments is estimated based on quoted market prices. 50 table of contents index to financial statements millions of dollars except as indicated expected maturity date fixed rate maturity average interest rate floating rate maturity average interest rate year-end 2012 2013 $ 12 7.00 % $ % 2014 14 7.00 286 1.47 2015 814 2.04 714 1.47 2016 15 7.00 2017 1,516 2.99 remaining years 3,552 5.00 50 0.24 total $ 5,923 $ 1,050 fair value $ 6,507 $ 1,050 for additional information about our use of derivative instruments, see note 16 derivatives and financial instruments , in the notes to consolidated financial statements. 51 table of contents index to financial statements cautionary statement for the purposes of the safe harbor provisions of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 this report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27a of the securities act of 1933 and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934. you can identify our forward-looking statements by the words anticipate, estimate, believe, budget, continue, could, intend, may, plan, potential, predict, seek, should, will, would, expect, objective, projection, forecast, goal, guidance, outlook, effort, target and similar expressions. we based the forward-looking statements on our current expectations, estimates and projections about us and the industries in which we operate in general. we caution you these statements are not guarantees of future performance as they involve assumptions that, while made in good faith, may prove to be incorrect, and involve risks and uncertainties we cannot predict. in addition, we based many of these forward-looking statements on assumptions about future events that may prove to be inaccurate. accordingly, our actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what we have expressed or forecast in the forward-looking statements. any differences could result from a variety of factors, including the following: fluctuations in crude oil, ngl, and natural gas prices, refining and marketing margins and margins for our chemicals business. failure of new products and services to achieve market acceptance. unexpected changes in costs or technical requirements for constructing, modifying or operating facilities for manufacturing, refining or transportation projects. unexpected technological or commercial difficulties in manufacturing, refining or transporting our products, including chemicals products. lack of, or disruptions in, adequate and reliable transportation for our crude oil, natural gas, ngl and refined products. the level and success of natural gas drilling around dcp midstream's assets, the level and quality of gas production volumes around its assets and its ability to connect supplies to its gathering and processing systems in light of competition. inability to timely obtain or maintain permits, including those necessary for capital projects; comply with government regulations; or make capital expenditures required to maintain compliance. failure to complete definitive agreements and feasibility studies for, and to timely complete construction of, announced and future refinery, chemical plant, midstream and transportation projects. potential disruption or interruption of our operations due to accidents, weather events, civil unrest, political events, terrorism or cyber attacks. international monetary conditions and exchange controls. substantial investment or reduced demand for products as a result of existing or future environmental rules and regulations. liability for remedial actions, including removal and reclamation obligations, under environmental regulations. liability resulting from litigation. general domestic and international economic and political developments, including armed hostilities; expropriation of assets; changes in governmental policies relating to crude oil, natural gas, ngl or refined product pricing, regulation or taxation; other political, economic or diplomatic developments; and international monetary fluctuations. changes in tax, environmental and other laws and regulations (including alternative energy mandates) applicable to our business. limited access to capital or significantly higher cost of capital related to illiquidity or uncertainty in the domestic or international financial markets. inability to obtain economical financing for projects, construction or modification of facilities and general corporate purposes. the operation, financing and distribution decisions of our joint ventures. domestic and foreign supplies of crude oil and other feedstocks. domestic and foreign supplies of refined products, such as gasoline, diesel, jet fuel, home heating oil and petrochemicals. overcapacity or under capacity in the refining, midstream and chemical industries. fluctuations in consumer demand for refined products. 52 table of contents index to financial statements crude oil/refined product inventory levels. the factors generally described in item 1a risk factors in this report. 53 table of contents index to financial statementsrisk factors you should carefully consider the following risk factors in addition to the other information included in this annual report on form 10-k. each of these risk factors could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our common stock. our operating results and future rate of growth are exposed to the effects of changing commodity prices and refining, petrochemical and plastics margins. our revenues, operating results and future rate of growth are highly dependent on a number of factors, including fixed and variable expenses (including the cost of crude oil, ngls, and other refinery and petrochemicals feedstocks) and the margin relative to those expenses at which we are able to sell refined and chemicals segment products. in recent years, the prices of feedstocks and our products have fluctuated substantially. these prices depend on numerous factors beyond our control, including the global supply and demand for feedstocks and our products, which are subject to, among other things: changes in the global economy and the level of foreign and domestic production of crude oil, natural gas and ngls and refined, petrochemical and plastics products. availability of feedstocks and refined products and the infrastructure to transport feedstocks and refined products. local factors, including market conditions, the level of operations of other facilities in our markets, and the volume of products imported and exported. threatened or actual terrorist incidents, acts of war and other global political conditions. government regulations. weather conditions, hurricanes or other natural disasters. the price of crude oil influences prices for refined products. we do not produce crude oil and must purchase all of the crude oil we process. many crude oils available on the world market will not meet the quality restrictions for use in our refineries. others are not economical to use due to excessive transportation costs or for other reasons. the prices for crude oil and refined products can fluctuate differently based on global, regional and local market conditions. in addition, the timing of the relative movement of the prices (both among different classes of refined products and among various global markets for similar refined products), as well as the overall change in refined product prices, can reduce refining margins and could have a significant impact on our refining, wholesale marketing and retail operations, revenues, operating income and cash flows. also, crude oil supply contracts generally have market-responsive pricing provisions. we normally purchase our refinery feedstocks weeks before manufacturing and selling the refined products. price level changes during the period between purchasing feedstocks and selling the refined products from these feedstocks could have a significant effect on our financial results. we also purchase refined products produced by others for sale to our customers. price level changes during the periods between purchasing and selling these refined products also could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the price of feedstocks also influences prices for petrochemical and plastics products. although our chemicals segment gathers, transports, and fractionates feedstocks to meet a portion of their demand and has certain long-term feedstock supply contracts with others, it is still subject to volatile feedstock prices. in addition, the petrochemicals industry is both cyclical and volatile. cyclicality occurs when periods of tight supply, resulting in increased prices and profit margins, are followed by periods of capacity expansion, resulting in oversupply and declining prices and profit margins. volatility occurs as a result of changes in supply and demand for products, changes in energy prices, and changes in various other economic conditions around the world. uncertainty and illiquidity in credit and capital markets can impair our ability to obtain credit and financing on acceptable terms and can adversely affect the financial strength of our business partners. our ability to obtain credit and capital depends in large measure on the state of the credit and capital markets, which is beyond our control. our ability to access credit and capital markets may be restricted at a time when we would like, or need, access to those markets, which could constrain our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. in addition, the cost and availability of debt and equity financing may be adversely impacted by unstable or illiquid market conditions. protracted uncertainty and illiquidity in these markets also could have an adverse impact on our lenders, commodity hedging counterparties, or our customers, preventing them from meeting their obligations to us. 17 table of contents index to financial statements from time to time, our cash needs may exceed our internally generated cash flow, and our business could be materially and adversely affected if we are unable to obtain necessary funds from financing activities. from time to time, we may need to supplement our cash generated from operations with proceeds from financing activities. uncertainty and illiquidity in financial markets may materially impact the ability of the participating financial institutions to fund their commitments to us under our liquidity facilities. accordingly, we may not be able to obtain the full amount of the funds available under our liquidity facilities to satisfy our cash requirements, and our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial position. deterioration in our credit profile could increase our costs of borrowing money and limit our access to the capital markets and commercial credit, and could trigger co-venturer rights under joint venture arrangements. our credit ratings could be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, the circumstances warrant. if a rating agency were to downgrade our rating below investment grade, our borrowing costs would increase, and our funding sources could decrease. in addition, a failure by us to maintain an investment grade rating could affect our business relationships with suppliers and operating partners. for example, our agreement with chevron regarding cpchem permits chevron to buy our 50 percent interest in cpchem for fair market value if we experience a change in control or if both s&amp;p and moody's lower our credit ratings below investment grade and the credit rating from either rating agency remains below investment grade for 365 days thereafter, with fair market value determined by agreement or by nationally recognized investment banks. as a result of these factors, a downgrade of our credit ratings could have a materially adverse impact on our future operations and financial position. we expect to continue to incur substantial capital expenditures and operating costs as a result of our compliance with existing and future environmental laws and regulations. likewise, future environmental laws and regulations may impact or limit our current business plans and reduce demand for our products. our business is subject to numerous laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. these laws and regulations continue to increase in both number and complexity and affect our operations with respect to, among other things: the discharge of pollutants into the environment. emissions into the atmosphere (such as nitrogen oxides, sulfur dioxide and mercury emissions, and greenhouse gas emissions as they are, or may become, regulated). the quantity of renewable fuels that must be blended into motor fuels. the handling, use, storage, transportation, disposal and clean up of hazardous materials and hazardous and nonhazardous wastes. the dismantlement, abandonment and restoration of our properties and facilities at the end of their useful lives. we have incurred and will continue to incur substantial capital, operating and maintenance, and remediation expenditures as a result of these laws and regulations. to the extent these expenditures, as with all costs, are not ultimately reflected in the prices of our products and services, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in future periods could be materially adversely affected. the u.s. environmental protection agency (epa) has implemented a renewable fuel standard (rfs) pursuant to the energy policy act of 2005 and the energy independence and security act of 2007. the rfs program sets annual quotas for the quantity of renewable fuels (such as ethanol) that must be blended into motor fuels consumed in the united states. to provide certain flexibility in compliance options available to the industry, a renewable identification number (rin) is assigned to each gallon of renewable fuel produced in, or imported into, the united states. as a producer of petroleum-based motor fuels, we are obligated to blend renewable fuels into the products we produce at a rate that is at least commensurate to the epa's quota and, to the extent we do not, we must purchase rins in the open market to satisfy our obligation under the rfs program. to the extent the epa mandates a quantity of renewable fuel that exceeds the amount that is commercially feasible to blend into motor fuel (a situation commonly referred to as "the blend wall"), our operations could be materially adversely impacted, up to and including a reduction in produced motor fuel. to the extent there are significant changes in the earth's climate, such as more severe or frequent weather conditions in the markets we serve or the areas where our assets reside, we could incur increased expenses, our operations could be materially impacted, and demand for our products could fall. 18 table of contents index to financial statements domestic and worldwide political and economic developments could damage our operations and materially reduce our profitability and cash flows. actions of the u.s., state, local and international governments through tax and other legislation, executive order and commercial restrictions could reduce our operating profitability both in the united states and abroad. the u.s. government can prevent or restrict us from doing business in foreign countries. these restrictions and those of foreign governments could limit our ability to operate in, or gain access to, opportunities in various countries, as well as limit our ability to obtain the optimum slate of crude oil and other refinery feedstocks. our foreign operations and those of our joint ventures are further subject to risks of loss of revenue, equipment and property as a result of expropriation, acts of terrorism, war, civil unrest and other political risks; unilateral or forced renegotiation, modification or nullification of existing contracts with governmental entities; and difficulties enforcing rights against a governmental agency because of the doctrine of sovereign immunity and foreign sovereignty over international operations. actions by both the united states and host governments may affect our operations significantly in the future. renewable fuels, alternative energy mandates and energy conservation efforts could reduce demand for refined products. tax incentives and other subsidies can make renewable fuels and alternative energy more competitive with refined products than they otherwise might be, which may reduce refined product margins and hinder the ability of refined products to compete with renewable fuels. large capital projects can take many years to complete, and market conditions could deteriorate significantly between the project approval date and the project startup date, negatively impacting project returns. to approve a large-scale capital project, the project must meet an acceptable level of return on the capital to be employed in the project. we base these forecasted project economics on our best estimate of future market conditions. most large-scale projects take many years to complete. during this multi-year period, market conditions can change from those we forecast, and these changes could be significant. accordingly, we may not be able to realize our expected returns from a large investment in a capital project, and this could negatively impact our results of operations, cash flows and our return on capital employed. our investments in joint ventures decrease our ability to manage risk. we conduct some of our operations, including a large part of our midstream segment and our entire chemicals segment, through joint ventures in which we share control with our joint venture participants. our joint venture participants may have economic, business or legal interests or goals that are inconsistent with those of the joint venture or us, or our joint venture participants may be unable to meet their economic or other obligations, and we may be required to fulfill those obligations alone. failure by us, or an entity in which we have a joint-venture interest, to adequately manage the risks associated with any acquisitions or joint ventures could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition or results of operations of our joint ventures and, in turn, our business and operations. activities in our chemicals and midstream segments involve numerous risks that may result in accidents or otherwise affect the ability of our equity affiliates to make distributions to us. there are a variety of hazards and operating risks inherent in the manufacture of petrochemicals and the gathering, processing, transmission, storage, and distribution of natural gas and ngl, such as spills, leaks, explosions and mechanical problems that could cause substantial financial losses. in addition, these risks could result in significant injury, loss of human life, damage to property, environmental pollution and impairment of operations, any of which could result in substantial losses. for assets located near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers, industrial sites and other public gathering areas, the level of damage resulting from these risks could be greater. should any of these risks materialize, it could have a material adverse effect on the business and financial condition of cpchem, dcp midstream or rex and negatively impact their ability to make future distributions to us. 19 table of contents index to financial statements our operations present hazards and risks, which may not be fully covered by insurance, if insured. if a significant accident or event occurs for which we are not adequately insured, our operations and financial results could be adversely affected. the scope and nature of our operations present a variety of operational hazards and risks, including explosions, fires, toxic emissions, maritime hazards and natural catastrophes, that must be managed through continual oversight and control. for example, the operation of refineries, power plants, fractionators, pipelines, terminals and vessels is inherently subject to the risks of spills, discharges or other inadvertent releases of petroleum or hazardous substances. if any of these events had previously occurred or occurs in the future in connection with any of our refineries, pipelines or refined products terminals, or in connection with any facilities that receive our wastes or by-products for treatment or disposal, other than events for which we are indemnified, we could be liable for all costs and penalties associated with their remediation under federal, state, local and international environmental laws or common law, and could be liable for property damage to third parties caused by contamination from releases and spills. these and other risks are present throughout our operations. as protection against these hazards and risks, we maintain insurance against many, but not all, potential losses or liabilities arising from such operating risks. as such, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to fully cover us against potential losses arising from such risks. uninsured losses and liabilities arising from operating risks could reduce the funds available to us for capital and investment spending and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are subject to interruptions of supply and increased costs as a result of our reliance on third-party transportation of crude oil and refined products. we often utilize the services of third parties to transport crude oil, ngl and refined products to and from our facilities. in addition to our own operational risks discussed above, we could experience interruptions of supply or increases in costs to deliver refined products to market if the ability of the pipelines or vessels to transport crude oil or refined products is disrupted because of weather events, accidents, governmental regulations or third-party actions. a prolonged disruption of the ability of a pipeline or vessel to transport crude oil or refined product to or from one or more of our refineries could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. increased regulation of hydraulic fracturing could result in reductions or delays in u.s. production of crude oil and natural gas, which could adversely impact our results of operations. an increasing percentage of crude oil supplied to our refineries and the crude oil and gas production of dcp midstream's customers is being developed from unconventional sources, such as deep oil and gas shales. these reservoirs require hydraulic fracturing completion processes to release the hydrocarbons from the rock so it can flow through casing to the surface. hydraulic fracturing involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into the formation to stimulate hydrocarbon production. the u.s. environmental protection agency, as well as several state agencies, have commenced studies and/or convened hearings regarding the potential environmental impacts of hydraulic fracturing activities. at the same time, certain environmental groups have suggested that additional laws may be needed to more closely and uniformly regulate the hydraulic fracturing process, and legislation has been proposed to provide for such regulation. we cannot predict whether any such legislation will ever be enacted and, if so, what its provisions would be. any additional levels of regulation and permits required with the adoption of new laws and regulations at the federal or state level could result in our having to rely on higher priced crude oil for our refineries and lead to delays, increased operating costs and process prohibitions that could reduce the volumes of natural gas that move through dcp midstream's gathering systems and could reduce supplies and increase costs of ngl feedstocks to cpchem ethylene facilities. this could materially adversely affect our results of operations and the ability of dcp midstream and cpchem to make cash distributions to us. because of the natural decline in production from existing wells in dcp midstream's areas of operation, its success depends on its ability to obtain new sources of natural gas and ngl. any decrease in the volumes of natural gas dcp midstream gathers could adversely affect its business and operating results. dcp midstream's gathering and transportation pipeline systems are connected to or dependent on the level of production from natural gas wells, from which production will naturally decline over time. as a result, its cash flows associated with these wells will also decline over time. in order to maintain or increase throughput levels on its gathering and transportation pipeline systems and ngl pipelines and the asset utilization rates at its natural gas processing plants, dcp 20 table of contents index to financial statements midstream must continually obtain new supplies. the primary factors affecting dcp midstream's ability to obtain new supplies of natural gas and ngl, and to attract new customers to its assets, include the level of successful drilling activity near these assets, the demand for natural gas and crude oil, producers' desire and ability to obtain necessary permits in an efficient manner, natural gas field characteristics and production performance, surface access and infrastructure issues, and its ability to compete for volumes from successful new wells. if dcp midstream is not able to obtain new supplies of natural gas to replace the natural decline in volumes from existing wells or because of competition, throughput on its pipelines and the utilization rates of its treating and processing facilities would decline. this could have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows, and its ability to make cash distributions to us. competitors that produce their own supply of feedstocks, have more extensive retail outlets, or have greater financial resources may have a competitive advantage. the refining and marketing industry is highly competitive with respect to both feedstock supply and refined product markets. we compete with many companies for available supplies of crude oil and other feedstocks and for outlets for our refined products. we do not produce any of our crude oil feedstocks. some of our competitors, however, obtain a portion of their feedstocks from their own production and some have more extensive retail outlets than we have. competitors that have their own production or extensive retail outlets (and greater brand-name recognition) are at times able to offset losses from refining operations with profits from producing or retailing operations, and may be better positioned to withstand periods of depressed refining margins or feedstock shortages. some of our competitors also have materially greater financial and other resources than we have. such competitors have a greater ability to bear the economic risks inherent in all phases of our business. in addition, we compete with other industries that provide alternative means to satisfy the energy and fuel requirements of our industrial, commercial and individual customers. we may incur losses as a result of our forward-contract activities and derivative transactions. we currently use commodity derivative instruments, and we expect to continue their use in the future. if the instruments we utilize to hedge our exposure to various types of risk are not effective, we may incur losses. derivative transactions involve the risk that counterparties may be unable to satisfy their obligations to us. if any of our counterparties were to default on its obligations to us under the hedging contracts or seek bankruptcy protection, it could have an adverse effect on our ability to fund our planned activities and could result in a larger percentage of our future production being subject to commodity price changes. the risk of counterparty default is heightened in a poor economic environment. one of our subsidiaries acts as the general partner of a publicly traded master limited partnership, phillips 66 partners lp, which may involve a greater exposure to legal liability than our historic business operations. one of our subsidiaries acts as the general partner of phillips 66 partners lp, a publicly traded master limited partnership. our control of the general partner of phillips 66 partners may increase the possibility that we could be subject to claims of breach of fiduciary duties, including claims of conflicts of interest, related to phillips 66 partners. any liability resulting from such claims could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. a significant interruption in one or more of our facilities could adversely affect our business. our operations could be subject to significant interruption if one or more of our facilities were to experience a major accident or mechanical failure, power outage, encounter work stoppages relating to organized labor issues, be damaged by severe weather or other natural or man-made disaster, such as an act of terrorism, or otherwise be forced to shut down. if any facility were to experience an interruption in operations, earnings from the facility could be materially adversely affected (to the extent not recoverable through insurance, if insured) because of lost production and repair costs. a significant interruption in one or more of our facilities could also lead to increased volatility in prices for feedstocks and refined products, and could increase instability in the financial and insurance markets, making it more difficult for us to access capital and to obtain insurance coverage that we consider adequate. 21 table of contents index to financial statements our performance depends on the uninterrupted operation of our facilities, which are becoming increasingly dependent on our information technology systems. our performance depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of the manufacturing equipment in our production facilities. the inability to operate one or more of our facilities due to a natural disaster; power outage; labor dispute; or failure of one or more of our information technology, telecommunications, or other systems could significantly impair our ability to manufacture our products. our manufacturing equipment is becoming increasingly dependent on our information technology systems. a disruption in our information technology systems due to a catastrophic event or security breach could interrupt or damage our operations. security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer. in the ordinary course of our business, we collect sensitive data, including personally identifiable information of our customers using credit cards at our branded retail outlets. despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. although we have experienced occasional, actual or attempted breaches of our cybersecurity, none of these breaches has had a material effect on our business, operations or reputation (or compromised any customer data). any such breaches could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of customer information, disrupt the services we provide to customers, and damage our reputation, any of which could adversely affect our business. the level of returns on pension and postretirement plan assets and the actuarial assumptions used for valuation purposes could affect our earnings and cash flows in future periods. assumptions used in determining projected benefit obligations and the expected return on plan assets for our pension plan and other postretirement benefit plans are evaluated by us in consultation with outside actuaries. if we determine that changes are warranted in the assumptions used, such as the discount rate, expected long-term rate of return, or health care cost trend rate, our future pension and postretirement benefit expenses and funding requirements could increase. in addition, several factors could result in actual results differing significantly from the actuarial assumptions that we use. funding obligations are determined based on the value of assets and liabilities on a specific date as required under relevant regulations. future pension funding requirements, and the timing of funding payments, could be affected by legislation enacted by governmental authorities. in connection with the separation, conocophillips has agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities and we have agreed to indemnify conocophillips for certain liabilities. if we are required to act on these indemnities to conocophillips, we may need to divert cash to meet those obligations and our financial results could be negatively impacted. the conocophillips indemnity may not be sufficient to insure us against the full amount of liabilities for which it has been allocated responsibility, and conocophillips may not be able to satisfy its indemnification obligations in the future. pursuant to the indemnification and release agreement and certain other agreements with conocophillips entered into in connection with the separation, conocophillips agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities, and we agreed to indemnify conocophillips for certain liabilities. indemnities that we may be required to provide conocophillips are not subject to any cap, may be significant and could negatively impact our business, particularly indemnities relating to our actions that could impact the tax-free nature of the distribution of phillips 66 stock. third parties could also seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities that conocophillips has agreed to retain. further, the indemnity from conocophillips may not be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, and conocophillips may not be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations. moreover, even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from conocophillips any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear these losses ourselves. each of these risks could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 22 table of contents index to financial statements we are subject to continuing contingent liabilities of conocophillips following the separation. notwithstanding the separation, there are several significant areas where the liabilities of conocophillips may become our obligations. for example, under the internal revenue code and the related rules and regulations, each corporation that was a member of the conocophillips consolidated u.s. federal income tax reporting group during any taxable period or portion of any taxable period ending on or before the effective time of the separation is jointly and severally liable for the u.s. federal income tax liability of the entire conocophillips consolidated tax reporting group for that taxable period. in connection with the separation, we entered into the tax sharing agreement with conocophillips that allocates the responsibility for prior period taxes of the conocophillips consolidated tax reporting group between us and conocophillips. conocophillips may be unable to pay any prior period taxes for which it is responsible, and we could be required to pay the entire amount of such taxes. other provisions of federal law establish similar liability for other matters, including laws governing tax-qualified pension plans as well as other contingent liabilities. if the distribution in connection with the separation, together with certain related transactions, does not qualify as a transaction that is generally tax-free for u.s. federal income tax purposes, our stockholders and conocophillips could be subject to significant tax liability and, in certain circumstances, we could be required to indemnify conocophillips for material taxes pursuant to indemnification obligations under the tax sharing agreement. conocophillips received a private letter ruling from the internal revenue service (irs) substantially to the effect that, among other things, the distribution, together with certain related transactions, qualified as a transaction that is generally tax-free for u.s. federal income tax purposes under sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(d) of the code. the private letter ruling and the tax opinion that conocophillips received relied on certain representations, assumptions and undertakings, including those relating to the past and future conduct of our business, and neither the private letter ruling nor the opinion would be valid if such representations, assumptions and undertakings were incorrect. moreover, the private letter ruling does not address all the issues that are relevant to determining whether the distribution qualified for tax-free treatment. notwithstanding the private letter ruling and the tax opinion, the irs could determine the distribution should be treated as a taxable transaction for u.s. federal income tax purposes if it determines any of the representations, assumptions or undertakings that were included in the request for the private letter ruling are false or have been violated or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion that are not covered by the irs ruling. if the irs were to determine that the distribution failed to qualify for tax-free treatment, in general, conocophillips would be subject to tax as if it had sold the phillips 66 common stock in a taxable sale for its fair market value, and conocophillips stockholders who received shares of phillips 66 common stock in the distribution would be subject to tax as if they had received a taxable distribution equal to the fair market value of such shares. under the tax sharing agreement, we would generally be required to indemnify conocophillips against any tax resulting from the distribution to the extent that such tax resulted from (i) an acquisition of all or a portion of our stock or assets, whether by merger or otherwise, (ii) other actions or failures to act by us, or (iii) any of our representations or undertakings being incorrect or violated. our indemnification obligations to conocophillips and its subsidiaries, officers and directors are not limited by any maximum amount. if we are required to indemnify conocophillips or such other persons under the circumstances set forth in the tax sharing agreement, we may be subject to substantial liabilities. we may not be able to engage in desirable strategic or capital-raising transactions due to limitations imposed on us as part of the separation. in addition, under some circumstances, we could be liable for adverse tax consequences resulting from engaging in significant strategic or capital-raising transactions. to preserve the tax-free treatment to conocophillips of the distribution, for the two-year period following the distribution we may be prohibited, except in specified circumstances, from: entering into any transaction pursuant to which all or a portion of our stock would be acquired, whether by merger or otherwise. issuing equity securities beyond certain thresholds. repurchasing our common stock beyond certain thresholds. ceasing to actively conduct the refining business. taking or failing to take any other action that prevents the distribution and related transactions from being tax-free. 23 table of contents index to financial statements these restrictions may limit our ability to pursue strategic transactions or engage in new business or other transactions that may maximize the value of our business. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk financial instrument market risk we and certain of our subsidiaries hold and issue derivative contracts and financial instruments that expose our cash flows or earnings to changes in commodity prices, foreign currency exchange rates or interest rates. we may use financial- and commodity-based derivative contracts to manage the risks produced by changes in the prices of crude oil and related products, natural gas and electric power; fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates; or to capture market opportunities. our use of derivative instruments is governed by an authority limitations document approved by our board of directors that prohibits the use of highly leveraged derivatives or derivative instruments without sufficient market liquidity for comparable valuations. the authority limitations document also establishes the value at risk (var) limits for us, and compliance with these limits is monitored daily. our chief financial officer monitors risks resulting from foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. our executive vice president over the commercial organization monitors commodity price risk. the commercial organization manages our commercial marketing, optimizes our commodity flows and positions, and monitors related risks of our businesses. commodity price risk we sell into or receive supply from the worldwide crude oil, refined products, natural gas, ngl, and electric power markets and are exposed to fluctuations in the prices for these commodities. these fluctuations can affect our revenues and purchases, as well as the cost of operating, investing and financing activities. generally, our policy is to remain exposed to the market prices of commodities. our commercial organization uses futures, forwards, swaps and options in various markets to optimize the value of our supply chain, which may move our risk profile away from market average prices to accomplish the following objectives: balance physical systems. in addition to cash settlement prior to contract expiration, exchange-traded futures contracts also may be settled by physical delivery of the commodity, providing another source of supply to meet our refinery requirements or marketing demand. meet customer needs. consistent with our policy to generally remain exposed to market prices, we use swap contracts to convert fixed-price sales contracts, which are often requested by refined product consumers, to a floating-market price. manage the risk to our cash flows from price exposures on specific crude oil, refined product, natural gas, and electric power transactions. enable us to use the market knowledge gained from these activities to capture market opportunities such as moving physical commodities to more profitable locations, storing commodities to capture seasonal or time premiums, and blending commodities to capture quality upgrades. derivatives may be utilized to optimize these activities. we use a var model to estimate the loss in fair value that could potentially result on a single day from the effect of adverse changes in market conditions on the derivative financial instruments and derivative commodity instruments held or issued, including commodity purchase and sales contracts recorded on the balance sheet at december 31, 2013 , as derivative instruments. using monte carlo simulation, a 95 percent confidence level and a one-day holding period, the var for those instruments issued or held for trading purposes at december 31, 2013 and 2012 , were immaterial to our cash flows and net income. the var for instruments held for purposes other than trading at december 31, 2013 and 2012 , were also immaterial to our cash flows and net income. 57 table of contents index to financial statements interest rate risk the following tables provide information about our debt instruments that are sensitive to changes in u.s. interest rates. these tables present principal cash flows and related weighted-average interest rates by expected maturity dates. weighted-average variable rates are based on effective rates at the reporting date. the carrying amount of our floating-rate debt approximates its fair value. the fair value of the fixed-rate financial instruments is estimated based on quoted market prices. millions of dollars except as indicated expected maturity date fixed rate maturity average interest rate floating rate maturity average interest rate year-end 2013 2014 $ 13 7.00 % $ % 2015 815 2.04 2016 15 7.00 2017 1,516 2.99 2018 17 7.00 13 0.05 remaining years 3,535 5.00 37 0.05 total $ 5,911 $ 50 fair value $ 6,168 $ 50 millions of dollars except as indicated expected maturity date fixed rate maturity average interest rate floating rate maturity average interest rate year-end 2012 2013 $ 12 7.00 % $ % 2014 14 7.00 286 1.47 2015 814 2.04 714 1.47 2016 15 7.00 2017 1,516 2.99 remaining years 3,552 5.00 50 0.24 total $ 5,923 $ 1,050 fair value $ 6,508 $ 1,050 for additional information about our use of derivative instruments, see note 15 derivatives and financial instruments , in the notes to consolidated financial statements. 58 table of contents index to financial statements cautionary statement for the purposes of the safe harbor provisions of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 this report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27a of the securities act of 1933 and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934. you can identify our forward-looking statements by the words anticipate, estimate, believe, budget, continue, could, intend, may, plan, potential, predict, seek, should, will, would, expect, objective, projection, forecast, goal, guidance, outlook, effort, target and similar expressions. we based the forward-looking statements on our current expectations, estimates and projections about us and the industries in which we operate in general. we caution you these statements are not guarantees of future performance as they involve assumptions that, while made in good faith, may prove to be incorrect, and involve risks and uncertainties we cannot predict. in addition, we based many of these forward-looking statements on assumptions about future events that may prove to be inaccurate. accordingly, our actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what we have expressed or forecast in the forward-looking statements. any differences could result from a variety of factors, including the following: fluctuations in ngl, crude oil and natural gas prices and petrochemical and refining margins. failure of new products and services to achieve market acceptance. unexpected changes in costs or technical requirements for constructing, modifying or operating our facilities or transporting our products. unexpected technological or commercial difficulties in manufacturing, refining or transporting our products, including chemicals products. lack of, or disruptions in, adequate and reliable transportation for our ngl, crude oil, natural gas and refined products. the level and success of natural gas drilling around dcp midstream's assets, the level and quality of gas production volumes around its assets and its ability to connect supplies to its gathering and processing systems in light of competition. inability to timely obtain or maintain permits, including those necessary for capital projects; comply with government regulations; or make capital expenditures required to maintain compliance. failure to complete definitive agreements and feasibility studies for, and to timely complete construction of, announced and future capital projects. potential disruption or interruption of our operations due to accidents, weather events, civil unrest, political events, terrorism or cyber attacks. international monetary conditions and exchange controls. substantial investment or reduced demand for products as a result of existing or future environmental rules and regulations. liability resulting from litigation or for remedial actions, including removal and reclamation obligations under environmental regulations. general domestic and international economic and political developments including: armed hostilities; expropriation of assets; changes in governmental policies relating to ngl, crude oil, natural gas or refined product pricing, regulation or taxation; and other political, economic or diplomatic developments. changes in tax, environmental and other laws and regulations (including alternative energy mandates) applicable to our business. limited access to capital or significantly higher cost of capital related to changes to our credit profile or illiquidity or uncertainty in the domestic or international financial markets. the operation, financing and distribution decisions of our joint ventures. domestic and foreign supplies of crude oil and other feedstocks. domestic and foreign supplies of petrochemicals and refined products, such as gasoline, diesel, jet fuel and home heating oil. governmental policies relating to exports of crude oil and natural gas. overcapacity or under capacity in the midstream, chemicals and refining industries. fluctuations in consumer demand for refined products. the factors generally described in item 1a. risk factors in this report. 59 table of contents index to financial statementsrisk factors you should carefully consider the following risk factors in addition to the other information included in this annual report on form 10-k. each of these risk factors could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our common stock. our operating results and future rate of growth are exposed to the effects of changing commodity prices and refining, petrochemical and plastics margins. our revenues, operating results and future rate of growth are highly dependent on a number of factors, including fixed and variable expenses (including the cost of crude oil, ngls, and other refinery and petrochemicals feedstocks) and the margin relative to those expenses at which we are able to sell refined and chemicals segment products. during the last half of 2014 and other periods in recent years, the prices of feedstocks and our products have fluctuated substantially. these prices depend on numerous factors beyond our control, including the global supply and demand for feedstocks and our products, which are subject to, among other things: changes in the global economy and the level of foreign and domestic production of crude oil, natural gas and ngls and refined, petrochemical and plastics products. availability of feedstocks and refined products and the infrastructure to transport feedstocks and refined products. local factors, including market conditions, the level of operations of other facilities in our markets, and the volume of products imported and exported. threatened or actual terrorist incidents, acts of war and other global political conditions. government regulations. weather conditions, hurricanes or other natural disasters. the price of crude oil influences prices for refined products. we do not produce crude oil and must purchase all of the crude oil we process. many crude oils available on the world market will not meet the quality restrictions for use in our refineries. others are not economical to use due to excessive transportation costs or for other reasons. the prices for crude oil and refined products can fluctuate differently based on global, regional and local market conditions. in addition, the timing of the relative movement of the prices (both among different classes of refined products and among various global markets for similar refined products), as well as the overall change in refined product prices, can reduce refining margins and could have a significant impact on our refining, wholesale marketing and retail operations, revenues, operating income and cash flows. also, crude oil supply contracts generally have market-responsive pricing provisions. we normally purchase our refinery feedstocks weeks before manufacturing and selling the refined products. price level changes during the period between purchasing feedstocks and selling the refined products from these feedstocks could have a significant effect on our financial results. we also purchase refined products produced by others for sale to our customers. price level changes during the periods between purchasing and selling these refined products also could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the price of feedstocks also influences prices for petrochemical and plastics products. although our chemicals segment gathers, transports, and fractionates feedstocks to meet a portion of their demand and has certain long-term feedstock supply contracts with others, it is still subject to volatile feedstock prices. in addition, the petrochemicals industry is both cyclical and volatile. cyclicality occurs when periods of tight supply, resulting in increased prices and profit margins, are followed by periods of capacity expansion, resulting in oversupply and declining prices and profit margins. volatility occurs as a result of changes in supply and demand for products, changes in energy prices, and changes in various other economic conditions around the world. uncertainty and illiquidity in credit and capital markets can impair our ability to obtain credit and financing on acceptable terms and can adversely affect the financial strength of our business partners. our ability to obtain credit and capital depends in large measure on the state of the credit and capital markets, which is beyond our control. our ability to access credit and capital markets may be restricted at a time when we would like, or need, access to those markets, which could constrain our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. in addition, the cost and availability of debt and equity financing may be adversely impacted by unstable or illiquid market conditions. protracted uncertainty and illiquidity in these markets also could have an adverse impact on our lenders, commodity hedging counterparties, or our customers, preventing them from meeting their obligations to us. 20 table of contents index to financial statements from time to time, our cash needs may exceed our internally generated cash flow, and our business could be materially and adversely affected if we are unable to obtain necessary funds from financing activities. from time to time, we may need to supplement our cash generated from operations with proceeds from financing activities. uncertainty and illiquidity in financial markets may materially impact the ability of the participating financial institutions to fund their commitments to us under our liquidity facilities. accordingly, we may not be able to obtain the full amount of the funds available under our liquidity facilities to satisfy our cash requirements, and our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial position. deterioration in our credit profile could increase our costs of borrowing money and limit our access to the capital markets and commercial credit, and could trigger co-venturer rights under joint venture arrangements. our credit ratings could be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, the circumstances warrant. if a rating agency were to downgrade our rating below investment grade, our borrowing costs would increase, and our funding sources could decrease. in addition, a failure by us to maintain an investment grade rating could affect our business relationships with suppliers and operating partners. for example, our agreement with chevron regarding cpchem permits chevron to buy our 50 percent interest in cpchem for fair market value if we experience a change in control or if both s&amp;p and moody's lower our credit ratings below investment grade and the credit rating from either rating agency remains below investment grade for 365 days thereafter, with fair market value determined by agreement or by nationally recognized investment banks. as a result of these factors, a downgrade of our credit ratings could have a materially adverse impact on our future operations and financial position. we expect to continue to incur substantial capital expenditures and operating costs as a result of our compliance with existing and future environmental laws and regulations. likewise, future environmental laws and regulations may impact or limit our current business plans and reduce demand for our products. our business is subject to numerous laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. these laws and regulations continue to increase in both number and complexity and affect our operations with respect to, among other things: the discharge of pollutants into the environment. emissions into the atmosphere (such as nitrogen oxides, sulfur dioxide and mercury emissions, and greenhouse gas emissions as they are, or may become, regulated). the quantity of renewable fuels that must be blended into motor fuels. the handling, use, storage, transportation, disposal and clean up of hazardous materials and hazardous and nonhazardous wastes. the dismantlement, abandonment and restoration of our properties and facilities at the end of their useful lives. we have incurred and will continue to incur substantial capital, operating and maintenance, and remediation expenditures as a result of these laws and regulations. to the extent these expenditures, as with all costs, are not ultimately reflected in the prices of our products and services, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in future periods could be materially adversely affected. the u.s. environmental protection agency (epa) has implemented a renewable fuel standard (rfs) pursuant to the energy policy act of 2005 and the energy independence and security act of 2007. the rfs program sets annual quotas for the quantity of renewable fuels (such as ethanol) that must be blended into motor fuels consumed in the united states. to provide certain flexibility in compliance options available to the industry, a renewable identification number (rin) is assigned to each gallon of renewable fuel produced in, or imported into, the united states. as a producer of petroleum-based motor fuels, we are obligated to blend renewable fuels into the products we produce at a rate that is at least commensurate to the epa's quota and, to the extent we do not, we must purchase rins in the open market to satisfy our obligation under the rfs program. to the extent the epa mandates a quantity of renewable fuel that exceeds the amount that is commercially feasible to blend into motor fuel (a situation commonly referred to as the blend wall ), our operations could be materially adversely impacted, up to and including a reduction in produced motor fuel. 21 table of contents index to financial statements climate change may adversely affect our facilities and our ongoing operations. the potential physical effects of climate change on our operations are highly uncertain and depend upon the unique geographic and environmental factors present. examples of such effects include rising sea levels at our coastal facilities, changing storm patterns and intensities, and changing temperature levels. as many of our facilities are located near coastal areas, rising sea levels may disrupt our ability to operate those facilities or transport crude oil and refined petroleum products. extended periods of such disruption could have an adverse effect on our results of operation. we could also incur substantial costs to protect or repair these facilities. domestic and worldwide political and economic developments could damage our operations and materially reduce our profitability and cash flows. actions of the u.s., state, local and international governments through tax and other legislation, executive order and commercial restrictions could reduce our operating profitability both in the united states and abroad. the u.s. government can prevent or restrict us from doing business in foreign countries. these restrictions and those of foreign governments could limit our ability to operate in, or gain access to, opportunities in various countries, as well as limit our ability to obtain the optimum slate of crude oil and other refinery feedstocks. our foreign operations and those of our joint ventures are further subject to risks of loss of revenue, equipment and property as a result of expropriation, acts of terrorism, war, civil unrest and other political risks; unilateral or forced renegotiation, modification or nullification of existing contracts with governmental entities; and difficulties enforcing rights against a governmental agency because of the doctrine of sovereign immunity and foreign sovereignty over international operations. our foreign operations and those of our joint ventures are also subject to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. actions by both the united states and host governments may affect our operations significantly in the future. renewable fuels, alternative energy mandates and energy conservation efforts could reduce demand for refined products. tax incentives and other subsidies can make renewable fuels and alternative energy more competitive with refined products than they otherwise might be, which may reduce refined product margins and hinder the ability of refined products to compete with renewable fuels. large capital projects can take many years to complete, and market conditions could deteriorate significantly between the project approval date and the project startup date, negatively impacting project returns. to approve a large-scale capital project, the project must meet an acceptable level of return on the capital invested in the project. we base these forecasted project economics on our best estimate of future market conditions. most large-scale projects take several years to complete. during this multi-year period, market conditions can change from those we forecast, and these changes could be significant. accordingly, we may not be able to realize our expected returns from a large investment in a capital project, and this could negatively impact our results of operations, cash flows and our return on capital employed. our investments in joint ventures decrease our ability to manage risk. we conduct some of our operations, including parts of our midstream, refining and m&amp;s segments, and our entire chemicals segment, through joint ventures in which we share control with our joint venture participants. our joint venture participants may have economic, business or legal interests or goals that are inconsistent with those of the joint venture or us, or our joint venture participants may be unable to meet their economic or other obligations, and we may be required to fulfill those obligations alone. failure by us, or an entity in which we have a joint-venture interest, to adequately manage the risks associated with any acquisitions or joint ventures could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition or results of operations of our joint ventures and, in turn, our business and operations. activities in our chemicals and midstream segments involve numerous risks that may result in accidents or otherwise affect the ability of our equity affiliates to make distributions to us. there are a variety of hazards and operating risks inherent in the manufacturing of petrochemicals and the gathering, processing, transmission, storage, and distribution of natural gas and ngl, such as spills, leaks, explosions and mechanical problems that could cause substantial financial losses. in addition, these risks could result in significant injury, loss of human life, damage to property, environmental pollution and impairment of operations, any of which could 22 table of contents index to financial statements result in substantial losses. for assets located near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers, industrial sites and other public gathering areas, the level of damage resulting from these risks could be greater. should any of these risks materialize, it could have a material adverse effect on the business and financial condition of cpchem, dcp midstream or rex and negatively impact their ability to make future distributions to us. our operations present hazards and risks, which may not be fully covered by insurance, if insured. if a significant accident or event occurs for which we are not adequately insured, our operations and financial results could be adversely affected. the scope and nature of our operations present a variety of operational hazards and risks, including explosions, fires, toxic emissions, maritime hazards and natural catastrophes, that must be managed through continual oversight and control. for example, the operation of refineries, power plants, fractionators, pipelines, terminals and vessels is inherently subject to the risks of spills, discharges or other inadvertent releases of petroleum or hazardous substances. if any of these events had previously occurred or occurs in the future in connection with any of our refineries, pipelines or refined products terminals, or in connection with any facilities that receive our wastes or by-products for treatment or disposal, other than events for which we are indemnified, we could be liable for all costs and penalties associated with their remediation under federal, state, local and international environmental laws or common law, and could be liable for property damage to third parties caused by contamination from releases and spills. these and other risks are present throughout our operations. as protection against these hazards and risks, we maintain insurance against many, but not all, potential losses or liabilities arising from such operating risks. as such, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to fully cover us against potential losses arising from such risks. uninsured losses and liabilities arising from operating risks could reduce the funds available to us for capital and investment spending and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are subject to interruptions of supply and increased costs as a result of our reliance on third-party transportation of crude oil, ngl and refined products. we often utilize the services of third parties to transport crude oil, ngl and refined products to and from our facilities. in addition to our own operational risks discussed above, we could experience interruptions of supply or increases in costs to deliver refined products to market if the ability of the pipelines or vessels to transport crude oil or refined products is disrupted because of weather events, accidents, governmental regulations or third-party actions. a prolonged disruption of the ability of a pipeline or vessel to transport crude oil, ngl or refined product to or from one or more of our refineries or other facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. increased regulation of hydraulic fracturing could result in reductions or delays in u.s. production of crude oil and natural gas, which could adversely impact our results of operations. an increasing percentage of crude oil supplied to our refineries and the crude oil and gas production of our midstream segment's customers is being developed from unconventional sources, such as deep oil and gas shales. these reservoirs require hydraulic fracturing completion processes to release the hydrocarbons from the rock so they can flow through casing to the surface. hydraulic fracturing involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into the formation to stimulate hydrocarbon production. the u.s. environmental protection agency, as well as several state agencies, have commenced studies and/or convened hearings regarding the potential environmental impacts of hydraulic fracturing activities. at the same time, certain environmental groups have suggested that additional laws may be needed to more closely and uniformly regulate the hydraulic fracturing process, and legislation has been proposed to provide for such regulation. in addition, some communities have adopted measures to ban hydraulic fracking in their communities. we cannot predict whether any such legislation will ever be enacted and, if so, what its provisions would be. any additional levels of regulation and permits required with the adoption of new laws and regulations at the federal or state level could result in our having to rely on higher priced crude oil for our refineries and lead to delays, increased operating costs and process prohibitions that could reduce the volumes of natural gas that move through dcp midstream's gathering systems and could reduce supplies and increase costs of ngl feedstocks to cpchem ethylene facilities. this could materially adversely affect our results of operations and the ability of dcp midstream and cpchem to make cash distributions to us. 23 table of contents index to financial statements because of the natural decline in production from existing wells in dcp midstream's areas of operation, its success depends on its ability to obtain new sources of natural gas and ngl. any decrease in the volumes of natural gas dcp midstream gathers could adversely affect its business and operating results. dcp midstream's gathering and transportation pipeline systems are connected to or dependent on the level of production from natural gas wells, from which production will naturally decline over time. as a result, its cash flows associated with these wells will also decline over time. in order to maintain or increase throughput levels on its gathering and transportation pipeline systems and ngl pipelines and the asset utilization rates at its natural gas processing plants, dcp midstream must continually obtain new supplies. the primary factors affecting dcp midstream's ability to obtain new supplies of natural gas and ngl, and to attract new customers to its assets, include the level of successful drilling activity near these assets, pricing of and the demand for natural gas and crude oil, producers' desire and ability to obtain necessary permits in an efficient manner, natural gas field characteristics and production performance, surface access and infrastructure issues, and its ability to compete for volumes from successful new wells. if dcp midstream is not able to obtain new supplies of natural gas to replace the natural decline in volumes from existing wells or because of competition, throughput on its pipelines and the utilization rates of its treating and processing facilities would decline. this could have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows, and its ability to make cash distributions to us. competitors that produce their own supply of feedstocks, have more extensive retail outlets, or have greater financial resources may have a competitive advantage. the refining and marketing industry is highly competitive with respect to both feedstock supply and refined product markets. we compete with many companies for available supplies of crude oil and other feedstocks and for outlets for our refined products. we do not produce any of our crude oil feedstocks. some of our competitors, however, obtain a portion of their feedstocks from their own production and some have more extensive retail outlets than we have. competitors that have their own production or extensive retail outlets (and greater brand-name recognition) are at times able to offset losses from refining operations with profits from producing or retailing operations, and may be better positioned to withstand periods of depressed refining margins or feedstock shortages. some of our competitors also have materially greater financial and other resources than we have. such competitors have a greater ability to bear the economic risks inherent in all phases of our business. in addition, we compete with other industries that provide alternative means to satisfy the energy and fuel requirements of our industrial, commercial and individual customers. we may incur losses as a result of our forward-contract activities and derivative transactions. we currently use commodity derivative instruments, and we expect to continue their use in the future. if the instruments we utilize to hedge our exposure to various types of risk are not effective, we may incur losses. derivative transactions involve the risk that counterparties may be unable to satisfy their obligations to us. if any of our counterparties were to default on its obligations to us under the hedging contracts or seek bankruptcy protection, it could have an adverse effect on our ability to fund our planned activities and could result in a larger percentage of our future production being subject to commodity price changes. the risk of counterparty default is heightened in a poor economic environment. one of our subsidiaries acts as the general partner of a publicly traded master limited partnership, phillips 66 partners lp, which may involve a greater exposure to legal liability than our historic business operations. one of our subsidiaries acts as the general partner of phillips 66 partners lp, a publicly traded master limited partnership. our control of the general partner of phillips 66 partners may increase the possibility that we could be subject to claims of breach of fiduciary duties, including claims of conflicts of interest, related to phillips 66 partners. any liability resulting from such claims could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 24 table of contents index to financial statements a significant interruption in one or more of our facilities could adversely affect our business. our operations could be subject to significant interruption if one or more of our facilities were to experience a major accident, mechanical failure, or power outage, encounter work stoppages relating to organized labor issues, be damaged by severe weather or other natural or man-made disaster, such as an act of terrorism, or otherwise be forced to shut down. if any facility were to experience an interruption in operations, earnings from the facility could be materially adversely affected (to the extent not recoverable through insurance, if insured) because of lost production and repair costs. a significant interruption in one or more of our facilities could also lead to increased volatility in prices for feedstocks and refined products, and could increase instability in the financial and insurance markets, making it more difficult for us to access capital and to obtain insurance coverage that we consider adequate. our performance depends on the uninterrupted operation of our facilities, which are becoming increasingly dependent on our information technology systems. our performance depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of the manufacturing equipment in our production facilities. the inability to operate one or more of our facilities due to a natural disaster; power outage; labor dispute; or failure of one or more of our information technology, telecommunications, or other systems could significantly impair our ability to manufacture our products. our manufacturing equipment is becoming increasingly dependent on our information technology systems. a disruption in our information technology systems due to a catastrophic event or security breach could interrupt or damage our operations. security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer. in the ordinary course of our business, we collect sensitive data, including personally identifiable information of our customers using credit cards at our branded retail outlets. despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. although we have experienced occasional, actual or attempted breaches of our cybersecurity, none of these breaches has had a material effect on our business, operations or reputation (or compromised any customer data). any such breaches could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of customer information, disrupt the services we provide to customers, and damage our reputation, any of which could adversely affect our business. the level of returns on pension and postretirement plan assets and the actuarial assumptions used for valuation purposes could affect our earnings and cash flows in future periods. assumptions used in determining projected benefit obligations and the expected return on plan assets for our pension plan and other postretirement benefit plans are evaluated by us in consultation with outside actuaries. if we determine that changes are warranted in the assumptions used, such as the discount rate, expected long-term rate of return, or health care cost trend rate, our future pension and postretirement benefit expenses and funding requirements could increase. in addition, several factors could cause actual results to differ significantly from the actuarial assumptions that we use. funding obligations are determined based on the value of assets and liabilities on a specific date as required under relevant regulations. future pension funding requirements, and the timing of funding payments, could be affected by legislation enacted by governmental authorities. 25 table of contents index to financial statements in connection with the separation, conocophillips has agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities and we have agreed to indemnify conocophillips for certain liabilities. if we are required to act on these indemnities to conocophillips, we may need to divert cash to meet those obligations and our financial results could be negatively impacted. the conocophillips indemnity may not be sufficient to insure us against the full amount of liabilities for which it has been allocated responsibility, and conocophillips may not be able to satisfy its indemnification obligations in the future. pursuant to the indemnification and release agreement and certain other agreements with conocophillips entered into in connection with the separation, conocophillips agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities, and we agreed to indemnify conocophillips for certain liabilities. indemnities that we may be required to provide conocophillips are not subject to any cap, may be significant and could negatively impact our business, particularly indemnities relating to our actions that could impact the tax-free nature of the distribution of phillips 66 stock. third parties could also seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities that conocophillips has agreed to retain. further, the indemnity from conocophillips may not be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, and conocophillips may not be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations. moreover, even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from conocophillips any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear these losses ourselves. each of these risks could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. we are subject to continuing contingent liabilities of conocophillips following the separation. notwithstanding the separation, there are several significant areas where the liabilities of conocophillips may become our obligations. for example, under the internal revenue code and the related rules and regulations, each corporation that was a member of the conocophillips consolidated u.s. federal income tax reporting group during any taxable period or portion of any taxable period ending on or before the effective time of the separation is jointly and severally liable for the u.s. federal income tax liability of the entire conocophillips consolidated tax reporting group for that taxable period. in connection with the separation, we entered into the tax sharing agreement with conocophillips that allocates the responsibility for prior period taxes of the conocophillips consolidated tax reporting group between us and conocophillips. conocophillips may be unable to pay any prior period taxes for which it is responsible, and we could be required to pay the entire amount of such taxes. other provisions of federal law establish similar liability for other matters, including laws governing tax-qualified pension plans as well as other contingent liabilities. if the distribution in connection with the separation, together with certain related transactions, does not qualify as a transaction that is generally tax-free for u.s. federal income tax purposes, our stockholders and conocophillips could be subject to significant tax liability and, in certain circumstances, we could be required to indemnify conocophillips for material taxes pursuant to indemnification obligations under the tax sharing agreement. conocophillips received a private letter ruling from the internal revenue service (irs) substantially to the effect that, among other things, the distribution, together with certain related transactions, qualified as a transaction that is generally tax-free for u.s. federal income tax purposes under sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(d) of the code. the private letter ruling and the tax opinion that conocophillips received relied on certain representations, assumptions and undertakings, including those relating to the past and future conduct of our business, and neither the private letter ruling nor the opinion would be valid if such representations, assumptions and undertakings were incorrect. moreover, the private letter ruling does not address all the issues that are relevant to determining whether the distribution qualified for tax-free treatment. notwithstanding the private letter ruling and the tax opinion, the irs could determine the distribution should be treated as a taxable transaction for u.s. federal income tax purposes if it determines any of the representations, assumptions or undertakings that were included in the request for the private letter ruling are false or have been violated or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion that are not covered by the irs ruling. if the irs were to determine that the distribution failed to qualify for tax-free treatment, in general, conocophillips would be subject to tax as if it had sold the phillips 66 common stock in a taxable sale for its fair market value, and conocophillips stockholders who received shares of phillips 66 common stock in the distribution would be subject to tax as if they had received a taxable distribution equal to the fair market value of such shares. under the tax sharing agreement, we would generally be required to indemnify conocophillips against any tax resulting from the distribution to the extent that such tax resulted from (i) an acquisition of all or a portion of our stock or assets, whether by merger or otherwise, (ii) other actions or failures to act by us, or (iii) any of our representations or 26 table of contents index to financial statements undertakings being incorrect or violated. our indemnification obligations to conocophillips and its subsidiaries, officers and directors are not limited by any maximum amount. if we are required to indemnify conocophillips or such other persons under the circumstances set forth in the tax sharing agreement, we may be subject to substantial liabilities. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk financial instrument market risk we and certain of our subsidiaries hold and issue derivative contracts and financial instruments that expose our cash flows or earnings to changes in commodity prices, foreign currency exchange rates or interest rates. we may use financial- and commodity-based derivative contracts to manage the risks produced by changes in the prices of crude oil and related products, natural gas, ngl, and electric power; fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates; or to capture market opportunities. our use of derivative instruments is governed by an authority limitations document approved by our board of directors that prohibits the use of highly leveraged derivatives or derivative instruments without sufficient market liquidity for comparable valuations. the authority limitations document also establishes the value at risk (var) limits for us, and compliance with these limits is monitored daily. our chief financial officer monitors risks resulting from foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. our president monitors commodity price risk. the commercial organization manages our commercial marketing, optimizes our commodity flows and positions, and monitors related risks of our businesses. commodity price risk we sell into or receive supply from the worldwide crude oil, refined products, natural gas, ngl, and electric power markets and are exposed to fluctuations in the prices for these commodities. these fluctuations can affect our revenues and purchases, as well as the cost of operating, investing and financing activities. generally, our policy is to remain exposed to the market prices of commodities. our commercial organization uses futures, forwards, swaps and options in various markets to optimize the value of our supply chain, which may move our risk profile away from market average prices to accomplish the following objectives: balance physical systems. in addition to cash settlement prior to contract expiration, exchange-traded futures contracts also may be settled by physical delivery of the commodity, providing another source of supply to meet our refinery requirements or marketing demand. meet customer needs. consistent with our policy to generally remain exposed to market prices, we use swap contracts to convert fixed-price sales contracts, which are often requested by refined product consumers, to a floating-market price. manage the risk to our cash flows from price exposures on specific crude oil, refined product, natural gas, and electric power transactions. enable us to use the market knowledge gained from these activities to capture market opportunities such as moving physical commodities to more profitable locations, storing commodities to capture seasonal or time premiums, and blending commodities to capture quality upgrades. derivatives may be utilized to optimize these activities. we use a var model to estimate the loss in fair value that could potentially result on a single day from the effect of adverse changes in market conditions on the derivative financial instruments and derivative commodity instruments held or issued, including commodity purchase and sales contracts recorded on the balance sheet at december 31, 2014 , as derivative instruments. using monte carlo simulation, a 95 percent confidence level and a one-day holding period, the var for those instruments issued or held for trading purposes at december 31, 2014 and 2013 , was immaterial to our cash flows and net income. the var for instruments held for purposes other than trading at december 31, 2014 and 2013 , was also immaterial to our cash flows and net income. 62 table of contents index to financial statements interest rate risk the following tables provide information about our debt instruments that are sensitive to changes in u.s. interest rates. these tables present principal cash flows and related weighted-average interest rates by expected maturity dates. weighted-average variable rates are based on effective rates at the reporting date. the carrying amount of our floating-rate debt approximates its fair value. the fair value of the fixed-rate financial instruments is estimated based on quoted market prices. millions of dollars except as indicated expected maturity date fixed rate maturity average interest rate floating rate maturity average interest rate year-end 2014 2015 $ 825 2.11 % $ % 2016 27 7.24 2017 1,529 3.03 2018 26 7.19 12 0.03 2019 24 7.12 18 1.33 remaining years 6,020 4.90 38 0.03 total $ 8,451 $ 68 fair value $ 8,806 $ 68 millions of dollars except as indicated expected maturity date fixed rate maturity average interest rate floating rate maturity average interest rate year-end 2013 2014 $ 13 7.00 % $ % 2015 815 2.04 2016 15 7.00 2017 1,516 2.99 2018 17 7.00 13 0.05 remaining years 3,535 5.00 37 0.05 total $ 5,911 $ 50 fair value $ 6,168 $ 50 for additional information about our use of derivative instruments, see note 17 derivatives and financial instruments , in the notes to consolidated financial statements. 63 table of contents index to financial statements cautionary statement for the purposes of the safe harbor provisions of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 this report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27a of the securities act of 1933 and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934. you can identify our forward-looking statements by the words anticipate, estimate, believe, budget, continue, could, intend, may, plan, potential, predict, seek, should, will, would, expect, objective, projection, forecast, goal, guidance, outlook, effort, target and similar expressions. we based the forward-looking statements on our current expectations, estimates and projections about us and the industries in which we operate in general. we caution you these statements are not guarantees of future performance as they involve assumptions that, while made in good faith, may prove to be incorrect, and involve risks and uncertainties we cannot predict. in addition, we based many of these forward-looking statements on assumptions about future events that may prove to be inaccurate. accordingly, our actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what we have expressed or forecast in the forward-looking statements. any differences could result from a variety of factors, including the following: fluctuations in ngl, crude oil and natural gas prices and petrochemical and refining margins. failure of new products and services to achieve market acceptance. unexpected changes in costs or technical requirements for constructing, modifying or operating our facilities or transporting our products. unexpected technological or commercial difficulties in manufacturing, refining or transporting our products, including chemicals products. lack of, or disruptions in, adequate and reliable transportation for our ngl, crude oil, natural gas and refined products. the level and success of drilling and quality of production volumes around dcp midstream's assets and its ability to connect supplies to its gathering and processing systems, residue gas and ngl infrastructure. inability to timely obtain or maintain permits, including those necessary for capital projects; comply with government regulations; or make capital expenditures required to maintain compliance. failure to complete definitive agreements and feasibility studies for, and to timely complete construction of, announced and future capital projects. potential disruption or interruption of our operations due to accidents, weather events, civil unrest, political events, terrorism or cyber attacks. international monetary conditions and exchange controls. substantial investment or reduced demand for products as a result of existing or future environmental rules and regulations. liability resulting from litigation or for remedial actions, including removal and reclamation obligations under environmental regulations. general domestic and international economic and political developments including: armed hostilities; expropriation of assets; changes in governmental policies relating to ngl, crude oil, natural gas or refined product pricing, regulation or taxation; and other political, economic or diplomatic developments. changes in tax, environmental and other laws and regulations (including alternative energy mandates) applicable to our business. limited access to capital or significantly higher cost of capital related to changes to our credit profile or illiquidity or uncertainty in the domestic or international financial markets. the operation, financing and distribution decisions of our joint ventures. domestic and foreign supplies of crude oil and other feedstocks. domestic and foreign supplies of petrochemicals and refined products, such as gasoline, diesel, jet fuel and home heating oil. governmental policies relating to exports of crude oil and natural gas. overcapacity or undercapacity in the midstream, chemicals and refining industries. fluctuations in consumer demand for refined products. the factors generally described in item 1a. risk factors in this report. 64 table of contents index to financial statementsrisk factors you should carefully consider the following risk factors in addition to the other information included in this annual report on form 10-k. each of these risk factors could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition, as well as affect the value of an investment in our common stock. our operating results and future rate of growth are exposed to the effects of changing commodity prices and refining, marketing and petrochemical margins. our revenues, operating results and future rate of growth are highly dependent on a number of factors, including fixed and variable expenses (including the cost of crude oil, ngls, and other refinery and petrochemical feedstocks) and the margin we can derive from selling refined and chemicals segment products. the prices of feedstocks and our products fluctuate substantially. these prices depend on numerous factors beyond our control, including the global supply and demand for feedstocks and our products, which are subject to, among other things: changes in the global economy and the level of foreign and domestic production of crude oil, natural gas and ngls and refined, petrochemical and plastics products. availability of feedstocks and refined products and the infrastructure to transport feedstocks and refined products. local factors, including market conditions, the level of operations of other facilities in our markets, and the volume of products imported and exported. threatened or actual terrorist incidents, acts of war and other global political conditions. government regulations. weather conditions, hurricanes or other natural disasters. the price of crude oil influences prices for refined products. we do not produce crude oil and must purchase all of the crude oil we process. many crude oils available on the world market will not meet the quality restrictions for use in our refineries. others are not economical to use due to excessive transportation costs or for other reasons. the prices for crude oil and refined products can fluctuate differently based on global, regional and local market conditions. in addition, the timing of the relative movement of the prices (both among different classes of refined products and among various global markets for similar refined products), as well as the overall change in refined product prices, can reduce refining margins and could have a significant impact on our refining, wholesale marketing and retail operations, revenues, operating income and cash flows. also, crude oil supply contracts generally have market-responsive pricing provisions. we normally purchase our refinery feedstocks weeks before manufacturing and selling the refined products. during the period between the time we purchase feedstocks and sell the refined products from these feedstocks, price changes could have a significant effect on our financial results. we also purchase refined products produced by others for sale to our customers. price changes during the periods between purchasing and selling these refined products also could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the price of feedstocks also influences prices for petrochemical and plastics products. although our chemicals segment gathers, transports, and fractionates feedstocks to meet a portion of their demand and has certain long-term feedstock supply contracts with others, it is still subject to volatile feedstock prices. in addition, the petrochemicals industry is both cyclical and volatile. cyclicality occurs when periods of tight supply, resulting in increased prices and profit margins, are followed by periods of capacity expansion, resulting in oversupply and declining prices and profit margins. volatility occurs as a result of changes in supply and demand for products, changes in energy prices, and changes in various other economic conditions around the world. uncertainty and illiquidity in credit and capital markets can impair our ability to obtain credit and financing on acceptable terms and can adversely affect the financial strength of our business partners. our ability to obtain credit and capital depends in large measure on the state of the credit and capital markets, which is beyond our control. our ability to access credit and capital markets may be restricted at a time when we would like, or need, access to those markets, which could constrain our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. in addition, the cost and availability of debt and equity financing may be adversely impacted by unstable or illiquid market conditions. protracted uncertainty and illiquidity in these markets also could have an adverse impact on our lenders, commodity hedging counterparties, or our customers, preventing them from meeting their obligations to us. 19 table of contents index to financial statements from time to time, our cash needs may exceed our internally generated cash flow, and our business could be materially and adversely affected if we are unable to obtain necessary funds from financing activities. from time to time, we may need to supplement cash generated from operations with proceeds from financing activities. uncertainty and illiquidity in financial markets may materially impact the ability of the participating financial institutions to fund their commitments to us under our liquidity facilities. accordingly, we may not be able to obtain the full amount of the funds available under our liquidity facilities to satisfy our cash requirements, and our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial position. deterioration in our credit profile could increase our costs of borrowing money and limit our access to the capital markets and commercial credit, and could trigger co-venturer rights under joint venture arrangements. our or phillips 66 partners' credit ratings could be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, the circumstances warrant. if a rating agency were to downgrade our rating below investment grade, our or phillips 66 partners' borrowing costs would increase, and our funding sources could decrease. in addition, a failure by us to maintain an investment grade rating could affect our business relationships with suppliers and operating partners. for example, our agreement with chevron regarding cpchem permits chevron to buy our 50 percent interest in cpchem for fair market value if we experience a change in control or if both s&amp;p and moody's lower our credit ratings below investment grade and the credit rating from either rating agency remains below investment grade for 365 days thereafter, with fair market value determined by agreement or by nationally recognized investment banks. as a result of these factors, a downgrade of credit ratings could have a materially adverse impact on our future operations and financial position. we expect to continue to incur substantial capital expenditures and operating costs as a result of our compliance with existing and future environmental laws and regulations. likewise, future environmental laws and regulations may impact or limit our current business plans and reduce demand for our products. our business is subject to numerous laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. these laws and regulations continue to increase in both number and complexity and affect our operations with respect to, among other things: the discharge of pollutants into the environment. emissions into the atmosphere (such as nitrogen oxides, sulfur dioxide and mercury emissions, and greenhouse gas emissions as they are, or may become, regulated). the quantity of renewable fuels that must be blended into motor fuels. the handling, use, storage, transportation, disposal and cleanup of hazardous materials and hazardous and nonhazardous wastes. the dismantlement, abandonment and restoration of our properties and facilities at the end of their useful lives. we have incurred and will continue to incur substantial capital, operating and maintenance, and remediation expenditures as a result of these laws and regulations. to the extent these expenditures, as with all costs, are not ultimately reflected in the prices of our products and services, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in future periods could be materially adversely affected. the u.s. environmental protection agency (epa) has implemented a renewable fuel standard (rfs) pursuant to the energy policy act of 2005 and the energy independence and security act of 2007. the rfs program sets annual quotas for the quantity of renewable fuels (such as ethanol) that must be blended into motor fuels consumed in the united states. to provide certain flexibility in compliance options available to the industry, a renewable identification number (rin) is assigned to each gallon of renewable fuel produced in, or imported into, the united states. as a producer of petroleum-based motor fuels, we are obligated to blend renewable fuels into the products we produce at a rate that is at least commensurate to the epa's quota and, to the extent we do not, we must purchase rins in the open market to satisfy our obligation under the rfs program. to the extent the epa mandates a quantity of renewable fuel that exceeds the amount that is commercially feasible to blend into motor fuel (a situation commonly referred to as the blend wall ), our operations could be materially adversely impacted, up to and including a reduction in produced motor fuel. 20 table of contents index to financial statements the adoption of climate change legislation could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the refined products we produce. the u.s. government, including the epa, as well as several state and international governments, have either considered or adopted legislation or regulations in an effort to reduce greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions. these proposed or promulgated laws apply or could apply in states and/or countries where we have interests or may have interests in the future. in addition, various groups suggest that additional laws may be needed in an effort to address climate change. we cannot predict the extent to which any such legislation will be enacted and, if so, what its provisions would be. to the extent we incur additional costs required to comply with the adoption of new laws and regulations that are not ultimately reflected in the prices of our products and services, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in future periods could be materially adversely affected. in addition, demand for the refined products we produce could be adversely affected. climate change may adversely affect our facilities and our ongoing operations. the potential physical effects of climate change on our operations are highly uncertain and depend upon the unique geographic and environmental factors present. examples of such effects include rising sea levels at our coastal facilities, changing storm patterns and intensities, and changing temperature levels. as many of our facilities are located near coastal areas, rising sea levels may disrupt our ability to operate those facilities or transport crude oil and refined petroleum products. extended periods of such disruption could have an adverse effect on our results of operation. we could also incur substantial costs to protect or repair these facilities. domestic and worldwide political and economic developments could damage our operations and materially reduce our profitability and cash flows. actions of the u.s., state, local and international governments through tax and other legislation, executive order and commercial restrictions could reduce our operating profitability both in the united states and abroad. the u.s. government can prevent or restrict us from doing business in foreign countries. these restrictions and those of foreign governments could limit our ability to operate in, or gain access to, opportunities in various countries, as well as limit our ability to obtain the optimum slate of crude oil and other refinery feedstocks. our foreign operations and those of our joint ventures are further subject to risks of loss of revenue, equipment and property as a result of expropriation, acts of terrorism, war, civil unrest and other political risks; unilateral or forced renegotiation, modification or nullification of existing contracts with governmental entities; and difficulties enforcing rights against a governmental agency because of the doctrine of sovereign immunity and foreign sovereignty over international operations. our foreign operations and those of our joint ventures are also subject to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. actions by both the united states and host governments may affect our operations significantly in the future. renewable fuels, alternative energy mandates and energy conservation efforts could reduce demand for refined products. tax incentives and other subsidies can make renewable fuels and alternative energy more competitive with refined products than they otherwise might be, which may reduce refined product margins and hinder the ability of refined products to compete with renewable fuels. large capital projects can take many years to complete, and market conditions could deteriorate significantly between the project approval date and the project startup date, negatively impacting project returns. to approve a large-scale capital project, the project must meet an acceptable level of return on the capital invested in the project. we base these forecasted project economics on our best estimate of future market conditions. most large-scale projects take several years to complete. during this multi-year period, market conditions can change from those we forecast, and these changes could be significant. accordingly, we may not be able to realize our expected returns from a large investment in a capital project, and this could negatively impact our results of operations, cash flows and our return on capital employed. our investments in joint ventures decrease our ability to manage risk. we conduct some of our operations, including parts of our midstream, refining and m&amp;s segments, and our entire chemicals segment, through joint ventures in which we share control with our joint venture participants. our joint 21 table of contents index to financial statements venture participants may have economic, business or legal interests or goals that are inconsistent with those of the joint venture or us, or our joint venture participants may be unable to meet their economic or other obligations, and we may be required to fulfill those obligations alone. failure by us, or an entity in which we have a joint-venture interest, to adequately manage the risks associated with any acquisitions or joint ventures could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition or results of operations of our joint ventures and, in turn, our business and operations. activities in our chemicals and midstream segments involve numerous risks that may result in accidents or otherwise affect the ability of our equity affiliates to make distributions to us. there are a variety of hazards and operating risks inherent in the manufacturing of petrochemicals and the gathering, processing, transmission, storage, and distribution of natural gas and ngl, such as spills, leaks, explosions and mechanical problems that could cause substantial financial losses. in addition, these risks could result in significant injury, loss of human life, damage to property, environmental pollution and impairment of operations, any of which could result in substantial losses. for assets located near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers, industrial sites and other public gathering areas, the level of damage resulting from these risks could be greater. should any of these risks materialize, it could have a material adverse effect on the business and financial condition of cpchem, dcp midstream or rex and negatively impact their ability to make future distributions to us. our operations present hazards and risks, which may not be fully covered by insurance, if insured. if a significant accident or event occurs for which we are not adequately insured, our operations and financial results could be adversely affected. the scope and nature of our operations present a variety of operational hazards and risks, including explosions, fires, toxic emissions, maritime hazards and natural catastrophes, that must be managed through continual oversight and control. for example, the operation of refineries, power plants, fractionators, pipelines, terminals and vessels is inherently subject to the risks of spills, discharges or other inadvertent releases of petroleum or hazardous substances. if any of these events had previously occurred or occurs in the future in connection with any of our refineries, pipelines or refined products terminals, or in connection with any facilities that receive our wastes or by-products for treatment or disposal, other than events for which we are indemnified, we could be liable for all costs and penalties associated with their remediation under federal, state, local and international environmental laws or common law, and could be liable for property damage to third parties caused by contamination from releases and spills. these and other risks are present throughout our operations. as protection against these hazards and risks, we maintain insurance against many, but not all, potential losses or liabilities arising from such operating risks. as such, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to fully cover us against potential losses arising from such risks. uninsured losses and liabilities arising from operating risks could reduce the funds available to us for capital and investment spending and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are subject to interruptions of supply and increased costs as a result of our reliance on third-party transportation of crude oil, ngl and refined products. we often utilize the services of third parties to transport crude oil, ngl and refined products to and from our facilities. in addition to our own operational risks discussed above, we could experience interruptions of supply or increases in costs to deliver refined products to market if the ability of the pipelines or vessels to transport crude oil or refined products is disrupted because of weather events, accidents, governmental regulations or third-party actions. a prolonged disruption of the ability of a pipeline or vessel to transport crude oil, ngl or refined product to or from one or more of our refineries or other facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. increased regulation of hydraulic fracturing could result in reductions or delays in u.s. production of crude oil and natural gas, which could adversely impact our results of operations. an increasing percentage of crude oil supplied to our refineries and the crude oil and gas production of our midstream segment's customers is being produced from unconventional sources. these reservoirs require hydraulic fracturing completion processes to release the hydrocarbons from the rock so they can flow through casing to the surface. hydraulic fracturing involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into the formation to stimulate hydrocarbon production. the u.s. environmental protection agency, as well as several state agencies, have commenced 22 table of contents index to financial statements studies and/or convened hearings regarding the potential environmental impacts of hydraulic fracturing activities. at the same time, certain environmental groups have suggested that additional laws may be needed to more closely and uniformly regulate the hydraulic fracturing process, and legislation has been proposed to provide for such regulation. in addition, some communities have adopted measures to ban hydraulic fracturing in their communities. we cannot predict whether any such legislation will ever be enacted and, if so, what its provisions would be. any additional levels of regulation and permits required with the adoption of new laws and regulations at the federal or state level could result in our having to rely on higher priced crude oil for our refineries. this could lead to delays, increased operating costs and process prohibitions that could reduce the volumes of natural gas that move through dcp midstream's gathering systems and could reduce supplies and increase costs of ngl feedstocks to cpchem ethylene facilities. this could materially adversely affect our results of operations and the ability of dcp midstream and cpchem to make cash distributions to us. dcp midstream's success depends on its ability to obtain new sources of natural gas and ngl. any decrease in the volumes of natural gas dcp midstream gathers could adversely affect its business and operating results. dcp midstream's gathering and transportation pipeline systems are connected to or dependent on the level of production from natural gas wells, which will naturally decline over time. as a result, its cash flows associated with these wells will also decline over time. in order to maintain or increase throughput levels on its gathering and transportation pipeline systems and ngl pipelines and the asset utilization rates at its natural gas processing plants, dcp midstream must continually obtain new supplies. the primary factors affecting dcp midstream's ability to obtain new supplies of natural gas and ngl, and to attract new customers to its assets, include the level of successful drilling activity near these assets, prices of, and the demand for, natural gas and crude oil, producers' desire and ability to obtain necessary permits in an efficient manner, natural gas field characteristics and production performance, surface access and infrastructure issues, and its ability to compete for volumes from successful new wells. if dcp midstream is not able to obtain new supplies of natural gas to replace the natural decline in volumes from existing wells or because of competition, throughput on its pipelines and the utilization rates of its treating and processing facilities would decline. this could have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows, and its ability to make cash distributions to us. competitors that produce their own supply of feedstocks, have more extensive retail outlets, or have greater financial resources may have a competitive advantage. the refining and marketing industry is highly competitive with respect to both feedstock supply and refined product markets. we compete with many companies for available supplies of crude oil and other feedstocks and for outlets for our refined products. we do not produce any of our crude oil feedstocks. some of our competitors, however, obtain a portion of their feedstocks from their own production and some have more extensive retail outlets than we have. competitors that have their own production or extensive retail outlets (and greater brand-name recognition) are at times able to offset losses from refining operations with profits from producing or retailing operations, and may be better positioned to withstand periods of depressed refining margins or feedstock shortages. some of our competitors also have materially greater financial and other resources than we have. such competitors have a greater ability to bear the economic risks inherent in all phases of our business. in addition, we compete with other industries that provide alternative means to satisfy the energy and fuel requirements of our industrial, commercial and individual customers. we may incur losses as a result of our forward-contract activities and derivative transactions. we currently use commodity derivative instruments, and we expect to use them in the future. if the instruments we utilize to hedge our exposure to various types of risk are not effective, we may incur losses. derivative transactions involve the risk that counterparties may be unable to satisfy their obligations to us. a large percentage of our future production is subject to commodity price changes and our ability to fund our planned activities could be adversely affected if any of our counterparties were to default on their obligations to us under the hedging contracts or seek bankruptcy protection. the risk of counterparty default is heightened in a poor economic environment. 23 table of contents index to financial statements one of our subsidiaries acts as the general partner of a publicly traded master limited partnership, phillips 66 partners lp, which may involve a greater exposure to legal liability than our historic business operations. one of our subsidiaries acts as the general partner of phillips 66 partners lp, a publicly traded master limited partnership. our control of the general partner of phillips 66 partners may increase the possibility that we could be subject to claims of breach of fiduciary duties, including claims of conflicts of interest, related to phillips 66 partners. any liability resulting from such claims could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. a significant interruption in one or more of our facilities could adversely affect our business. our operations could be subject to significant interruption if one or more of our facilities were to experience a major accident, mechanical failure, or power outage, encounter work stoppages relating to organized labor issues, be damaged by severe weather or other natural or man-made disaster, such as an act of terrorism, or otherwise be forced to shut down. if any facility were to experience an interruption in operations, earnings from the facility could be materially adversely affected (to the extent not recoverable through insurance, if insured) because of lost production and repair costs. a significant interruption in one or more of our facilities could also lead to increased volatility in prices for feedstocks and refined products, and could increase instability in the financial and insurance markets, making it more difficult for us to access capital and to obtain insurance coverage that we consider adequate. our performance depends on the uninterrupted operation of our facilities, which are becoming increasingly dependent on our information technology systems. our performance depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of the manufacturing equipment in our production facilities. the inability to operate one or more of our facilities due to a natural disaster; power outage; labor dispute; or failure of one or more of our information technology, telecommunications, or other systems could significantly impair our ability to manufacture our products. our manufacturing equipment is becoming increasingly dependent on our information technology systems. a disruption in our information technology systems due to a catastrophic event or security breach could interrupt or damage our operations. security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer. in the ordinary course of our business, we collect sensitive data, including personally identifiable information of our customers using credit cards at our branded retail outlets. despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. although we have experienced occasional, actual or attempted breaches of our cybersecurity, none of these breaches has had a material effect on our business, operations or reputation (or compromised any customer data). any such breaches could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of customer information, disrupt the services we provide to customers, and damage our reputation, any of which could adversely affect our business. the level of returns on pension and postretirement plan assets and the actuarial assumptions used for valuation purposes could affect our earnings and cash flows in future periods. assumptions used in determining projected benefit obligations and the expected return on plan assets for our pension plan and other postretirement benefit plans are evaluated by us based on a variety of independent market information and in consultation with outside actuaries. if we determine that changes are warranted in the assumptions used, such as the discount rate, expected long-term rate of return, or health care cost trend rate, our future pension and postretirement benefit expenses and funding requirements could increase. in addition, several factors could cause actual results to differ significantly from the actuarial assumptions that we use. funding obligations are determined based on the value of assets and liabilities on a specific date as required under relevant regulations. future pension funding requirements, and the timing of funding payments, could be affected by legislation enacted by governmental authorities. 24 table of contents index to financial statements in connection with the separation, conocophillips has agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities and we have agreed to indemnify conocophillips for certain liabilities. if we are required to act on these indemnities to conocophillips, we may need to divert cash to meet those obligations and our financial results could be negatively impacted. the conocophillips indemnity may not be sufficient to insure us against the full amount of liabilities for which it has been allocated responsibility, and conocophillips may not be able to satisfy its indemnification obligations in the future. pursuant to the indemnification and release agreement and certain other agreements with conocophillips entered into in connection with the separation, conocophillips agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities, and we agreed to indemnify conocophillips for certain liabilities. indemnities that we may be required to provide conocophillips are not subject to any cap, may be significant and could negatively impact our business, particularly indemnities relating to our actions that could impact the tax-free nature of the distribution of phillips 66 stock. third parties could also seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities that conocophillips has agreed to retain. further, the indemnity from conocophillips may not be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, and conocophillips may not be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations. moreover, even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from conocophillips any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear these losses ourselves. each of these risks could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. we are subject to continuing contingent liabilities of conocophillips following the separation. notwithstanding the separation, there are several significant areas where the liabilities of conocophillips may become our obligations. for example, under the internal revenue code and the related rules and regulations, each corporation that was a member of the conocophillips consolidated u.s. federal income tax reporting group during any taxable period or portion of any taxable period ending on or before the effective time of the separation is jointly and severally liable for the u.s. federal income tax liability of the entire conocophillips consolidated tax reporting group for that taxable period. in connection with the separation, we entered into the tax sharing agreement with conocophillips that allocates the responsibility for prior period taxes of the conocophillips consolidated tax reporting group between us and conocophillips. conocophillips may be unable to pay any prior period taxes for which it is responsible, and we could be required to pay the entire amount of such taxes. other provisions of federal law establish similar liability for other matters, including laws governing tax-qualified pension plans as well as other contingent liabilities. if the distribution in connection with the separation, together with certain related transactions, does not qualify as a transaction that is generally tax-free for u.s. federal income tax purposes, our stockholders and conocophillips could be subject to significant tax liability and, in certain circumstances, we could be required to indemnify conocophillips for material taxes pursuant to indemnification obligations under the tax sharing agreement. conocophillips received a private letter ruling from the internal revenue service (irs) substantially to the effect that, among other things, the distribution, together with certain related transactions, qualified as a transaction that is generally tax-free for u.s. federal income tax purposes under sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(d) of the code. the private letter ruling and the tax opinion that conocophillips received relied on certain representations, assumptions and undertakings, including those relating to the past and future conduct of our business, and neither the private letter ruling nor the opinion would be valid if such representations, assumptions and undertakings were incorrect. moreover, the private letter ruling does not address all the issues that are relevant to determining whether the distribution qualified for tax-free treatment. notwithstanding the private letter ruling and the tax opinion, the irs could determine the distribution should be treated as a taxable transaction for u.s. federal income tax purposes if it determines any of the representations, assumptions or undertakings that were included in the request for the private letter ruling are false or have been violated or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion that are not covered by the irs ruling. if the irs were to determine that the distribution failed to qualify for tax-free treatment, in general, conocophillips would be subject to tax as if it had sold the phillips 66 common stock in a taxable sale for its fair market value, and conocophillips stockholders who received shares of phillips 66 common stock in the distribution would be subject to tax as if they had received a taxable distribution equal to the fair market value of such shares. under the tax sharing agreement, we would generally be required to indemnify conocophillips against any tax resulting from the distribution to the extent that such tax resulted from (i) any of our representations or undertakings being incorrect or violated, or (ii) other actions or failures to act by us. our indemnification obligations to conocophillips and 25 table of contents index to financial statements its subsidiaries, officers and directors are not limited by any maximum amount. if we are required to indemnify conocophillips or such other persons under the circumstances set forth in the tax sharing agreement, we may be subject to substantial liabilities. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk financial instrument market risk we and certain of our subsidiaries hold and issue derivative contracts and financial instruments that expose our cash flows or earnings to changes in commodity prices, foreign currency exchange rates or interest rates. we may use financial- and commodity-based derivative contracts to manage the risks produced by changes in the prices of crude oil and related products, natural gas, ngl, and electric power; fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates; or to capture market opportunities. our use of derivative instruments is governed by an authority limitations document approved by our board of directors that prohibits the use of highly leveraged derivatives or derivative instruments without sufficient market liquidity for comparable valuations. the authority limitations document also establishes the value at risk (var) limits for us, and compliance with these limits is monitored daily. our chief financial officer monitors risks resulting from foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. our president monitors commodity price risk. the commercial organization manages our commercial marketing, optimizes our commodity flows and positions, and monitors related risks of our businesses. commodity price risk we sell into or receive supply from the worldwide crude oil, refined products, natural gas, ngl, and electric power markets, exposing our revenues, purchases, cost of operating activities, and cash flows to fluctuations in the prices for these commodities. generally, our policy is to remain exposed to the market prices of commodities. consistent with this policy, our commercial organization uses derivative contracts to effectively convert our exposure from fixed-price sales contracts, often requested by refined product customers, back to fluctuating market prices. conversely, our commercial organization also uses futures, forwards, swaps and options in various markets to accomplish the following objectives to optimize the value of our supply chain, and this may reduce our exposure to fluctuations in market prices: in addition to cash settlement prior to contract expiration, exchange-traded futures contracts may be settled by physical delivery of the commodity. this provides another source of supply to balance physical systems or to meet our refinery requirements and marketing demand. manage the risk to our cash flows from price exposures on specific crude oil, refined product, natural gas, ngl, and electric power transactions. enable us to use the market knowledge gained from these activities to capture market opportunities such as moving physical commodities to more profitable locations, storing commodities to capture seasonal or time premiums, and blending commodities to capture quality upgrades. derivatives may be utilized to optimize these activities. we use a var model to estimate the loss in fair value that could potentially result on a single day from the effect of adverse changes in market conditions on the derivative financial instruments and derivative commodity instruments held or issued, including commodity purchase and sales contracts recorded on the balance sheet at december 31, 2015 , as derivative instruments. using monte carlo simulation, a 95 percent confidence level and a one-day holding period, the var for those instruments issued or held for trading purposes at december 31, 2015 and 2014 , was immaterial to our cash flows and net income. the var for instruments held for purposes other than trading at december 31, 2015 and 2014 , was also immaterial to our cash flows and net income. 64 table of contents index to financial statements interest rate risk the following tables provide information about our debt instruments that are sensitive to changes in u.s. interest rates. these tables present principal cash flows and related weighted-average interest rates by expected maturity dates. weighted-average variable rates are based on effective rates at the reporting date. the carrying amount of our floating-rate debt approximates its fair value. the fair value of the fixed-rate financial instruments is estimated based on quoted market prices. millions of dollars except as indicated expected maturity date fixed rate maturity average interest rate floating rate maturity average interest rate year-end 2015 2016 $ 27 7.24 % $ % 2017 1,529 3.03 2018 26 7.18 12 0.01 2019 24 7.12 2020 319 2.90 12 0.01 remaining years 6,800 4.79 26 0.01 total $ 8,725 $ 50 fair value $ 8,434 $ 50 millions of dollars except as indicated expected maturity date fixed rate maturity average interest rate floating rate maturity average interest rate year-end 2014 2015 $ 825 2.11 % $ % 2016 27 7.24 2017 1,529 3.03 2018 26 7.19 12 0.03 2019 24 7.12 18 1.33 remaining years 6,020 4.90 38 0.03 total $ 8,451 $ 68 fair value $ 8,806 $ 68 for additional information about our use of derivative instruments, see note 16 derivatives and financial instruments , in the notes to consolidated financial statements. 65 table of contents index to financial statements cautionary statement for the purposes of the safe harbor provisions of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 this report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27a of the securities act of 1933 and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934. you can identify our forward-looking statements by the words anticipate, estimate, believe, budget, continue, could, intend, may, plan, potential, predict, seek, should, will, would, expect, objective, projection, forecast, goal, guidance, outlook, effort, target and similar expressions. we based the forward-looking statements on our current expectations, estimates and projections about us and the industries in which we operate in general. we caution you these statements are not guarantees of future performance as they involve assumptions that, while made in good faith, may prove to be incorrect, and involve risks and uncertainties we cannot predict. in addition, we based many of these forward-looking statements on assumptions about future events that may prove to be inaccurate. accordingly, our actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what we have expressed or forecast in the forward-looking statements. any differences could result from a variety of factors, including the following: fluctuations in ngl, crude oil, petroleum products and natural gas prices and refining, marketing and petrochemical margins. failure of new products and services to achieve market acceptance. unexpected changes in costs or technical requirements for constructing, modifying or operating our facilities or transporting our products. unexpected technological or commercial difficulties in manufacturing, refining or transporting our products, including chemicals products. lack of, or disruptions in, adequate and reliable transportation for our ngl, crude oil, natural gas and refined products. the level and success of drilling and quality of production volumes around dcp midstream's assets and its ability to connect supplies to its gathering and processing systems, residue gas and ngl infrastructure. inability to timely obtain or maintain permits, including those necessary for capital projects; comply with government regulations; or make capital expenditures required to maintain compliance. failure to complete definitive agreements and feasibility studies for, and to timely complete construction of, announced and future capital projects. potential disruption or interruption of our operations due to accidents, weather events, civil unrest, political events, terrorism or cyber attacks. international monetary conditions and exchange controls. substantial investment or reduced demand for products as a result of existing or future environmental rules and regulations. liability resulting from litigation or for remedial actions, including removal and reclamation obligations under environmental regulations. general domestic and international economic and political developments including: armed hostilities; expropriation of assets; changes in governmental policies relating to ngl, crude oil, natural gas or refined product pricing, regulation or taxation; and other political, economic or diplomatic developments. changes in tax, environmental and other laws and regulations (including alternative energy mandates) applicable to our business. limited access to capital or significantly higher cost of capital related to changes to our credit profile or illiquidity or uncertainty in the domestic or international financial markets. the operation, financing and distribution decisions of our joint ventures. domestic and foreign supplies of crude oil and other feedstocks. domestic and foreign supplies of petrochemicals and refined products, such as gasoline, diesel, aviation fuel and home heating oil. governmental policies relating to exports of crude oil and natural gas. overcapacity or undercapacity in the midstream, chemicals and refining industries. fluctuations in consumer demand for refined products. the factors generally described in item 1a. risk factors in this report. 66 table of contents index to financial statementsrisk factors you should carefully consider the following risk factors in addition to the other information included in this annual report on form 10-k. each of these risk factors could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition, as well as affect the value of an investment in our common stock. our operating results and future rate of growth are exposed to the effects of changing commodity prices and refining, marketing and petrochemical margins. our revenues, operating results and future rate of growth are highly dependent on a number of factors, including fixed and variable expenses (including the cost of crude oil, ngl, and other refining and petrochemical feedstocks) and the margin we can derive from selling refined and chemicals segment products. the prices of feedstocks and our products fluctuate substantially. these prices depend on numerous factors beyond our control, including the global supply and demand for feedstocks and our products, which are subject to, among other things: changes in the global economy and the level of foreign and domestic production of crude oil, natural gas and ngl and refined, petrochemical and plastics products. availability of feedstocks and refined products and the infrastructure to transport feedstocks and refined products. local factors, including market conditions, the level of operations of other facilities in our markets, and the volume of products imported and exported. threatened or actual terrorist incidents, acts of war and other global political conditions. government regulations. weather conditions, hurricanes or other natural disasters. the price of crude oil influences prices for refined products. we do not produce crude oil and must purchase all of the crude oil we process. many crude oils available on the world market will not meet the quality restrictions for use in our refineries. others are not economical to use due to excessive transportation costs or for other reasons. the prices for crude oil and refined products can fluctuate differently based on global, regional and local market conditions. in addition, the timing of the relative movement of the prices (both among different classes of refined products and among various global markets for similar refined products), as well as the overall change in refined product prices, can reduce refining margins and could have a significant impact on our refining, wholesale marketing and retail operations, revenues, operating income and cash flows. also, crude oil supply contracts generally have market-responsive pricing provisions. we normally purchase our refinery feedstocks weeks before manufacturing and selling the refined products. changes in prices that occur between when we purchase feedstocks and when we sell the refined products produced from these feedstocks could have a significant effect on our financial results. we also purchase refined products produced by others for sale to our customers. price changes that occur between when we purchase and sell these refined products also could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the price of feedstocks also influences prices for petrochemical and plastics products. although our chemicals segment gathers, transports, and fractionates feedstocks to meet a portion of their demand and has certain long-term feedstock supply contracts with others, it is still subject to volatile feedstock prices. in addition, the petrochemicals industry is both cyclical and volatile. cyclicality occurs when periods of tight supply, resulting in increased prices and profit margins, are followed by periods of capacity expansion, resulting in oversupply and declining prices and profit margins. volatility occurs as a result of changes in supply and demand for products, changes in energy prices, and changes in various other economic conditions around the world. uncertainty and illiquidity in credit and capital markets can impair our ability to obtain credit and financing on acceptable terms and can adversely affect the financial strength of our business partners. our ability to obtain credit and capital depends in large measure on the state of the credit and capital markets, which is beyond our control. our ability to access credit and capital markets may be restricted at a time when we would like, or need, access to those markets, which could constrain our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. in addition, the cost and availability of debt and equity financing may be adversely impacted by unstable or illiquid market conditions. protracted uncertainty and illiquidity in these markets also could have an adverse impact on our lenders, commodity hedging counterparties, or our customers, preventing them from meeting their obligations to us. 18 table of contents index to financial statements from time to time, our cash needs may exceed our internally generated cash flow, and our business could be materially and adversely affected if we are unable to obtain necessary funds from financing activities. from time to time, we may need to supplement cash generated from operations with proceeds from financing activities. uncertainty and illiquidity in financial markets may materially impact the ability of the participating financial institutions to fund their commitments to us under our liquidity facilities. accordingly, we may not be able to obtain the full amount of the funds available under our liquidity facilities to satisfy our cash requirements, and our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial position. deterioration in our credit profile could increase our costs of borrowing money and limit our access to the capital markets and commercial credit, and could trigger co-venturer rights under joint venture arrangements. our or phillips 66 partners' credit ratings could be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, the circumstances warrant. if a rating agency were to downgrade our rating below investment grade, our or phillips 66 partners' borrowing costs would increase, and our funding sources could decrease. in addition, a failure by us to maintain an investment grade rating could affect our business relationships with suppliers and operating partners. for example, our agreement with chevron regarding cpchem permits chevron to buy our 50 percent interest in cpchem for fair market value if we experience a change in control or if both s&amp;p and moody's lower our credit ratings below investment grade and the credit rating from either rating agency remains below investment grade for 365 days thereafter, with fair market value determined by agreement or by nationally recognized investment banks. as a result of these factors, a downgrade of credit ratings could have a materially adverse impact on our future operations and financial position. we expect to continue to incur substantial capital expenditures and operating costs as a result of our compliance with existing and future environmental laws and regulations. likewise, future environmental laws and regulations may impact or limit our current business plans and reduce demand for our products. our business is subject to numerous laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. these laws and regulations continue to increase in both number and complexity and affect our operations with respect to, among other things: the discharge of pollutants into the environment. emissions into the atmosphere (such as nitrogen oxides, sulfur dioxide and mercury emissions, and greenhouse gas emissions as they are, or may become, regulated). the quantity of renewable fuels that must be blended into motor fuels. the handling, use, storage, transportation, disposal and cleanup of hazardous materials and hazardous and nonhazardous wastes. the dismantlement, abandonment and restoration of our properties and facilities at the end of their useful lives. we have incurred and will continue to incur substantial capital, operating and maintenance, and remediation expenditures as a result of these laws and regulations. to the extent these expenditures, as with all costs, are not ultimately reflected in the prices of our products and services, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in future periods could be materially adversely affected. the u.s. environmental protection agency (epa) has implemented a renewable fuel standard (rfs) pursuant to the energy policy act of 2005 and the energy independence and security act of 2007. the rfs program sets annual quotas for the quantity of renewable fuels (such as ethanol) that must be blended into motor fuels consumed in the united states. to provide certain flexibility in compliance options available to the industry, a renewable identification number (rin) is assigned to each gallon of renewable fuel produced in, or imported into, the united states. as a producer of petroleum-based motor fuels, we are obligated to blend renewable fuels into the products we produce at a rate that is at least commensurate to the epa's quota and, to the extent we do not, we must purchase rins in the open market to satisfy our obligation under the rfs program. to the extent the epa mandates a quantity of renewable fuel that exceeds the amount that is commercially feasible to blend into motor fuel (a situation commonly referred to as the blend wall ), our operations could be materially adversely impacted, up to and including a reduction in produced motor fuel. 19 table of contents index to financial statements the adoption of climate change legislation or regulation could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the refined products we produce. the u.s. government, including the epa, as well as several state and international governments, have either considered or adopted legislation or regulations in an effort to reduce greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions. these proposed or promulgated laws apply or could apply in states and/or countries where we have interests or may have interests in the future. in addition, various groups suggest that additional laws may be needed in an effort to address climate change, as illustrated by the paris agreement negotiated at the 2015 united nations conference on climate change, referred to as cop 21, which entered into force on november 4, 2016. we cannot predict the extent to which any such legislation or regulation will be enacted and, if so, what its provisions would be. to the extent we incur additional costs required to comply with the adoption of new laws and regulations that are not ultimately reflected in the prices of our products and services, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in future periods could be materially adversely affected. in addition, demand for the refined products we produce could be adversely affected. climate change may adversely affect our facilities and our ongoing operations. the potential physical effects of climate change on our operations are highly uncertain and depend upon the unique geographic and environmental factors present. examples of such effects include rising sea levels at our coastal facilities, changing storm patterns and intensities, and changing temperature levels. as many of our facilities are located near coastal areas, rising sea levels may disrupt our ability to operate those facilities or transport crude oil and refined petroleum products. extended periods of such disruption could have an adverse effect on our results of operation. we could also incur substantial costs to protect or repair these facilities. domestic and worldwide political and economic developments could affect our operations and materially reduce our profitability and cash flows. actions of the u.s., state, local and international governments through tax and other legislation or regulation, executive order, permit or other review of infrastructure or facility development, and commercial restrictions could delay projects, increase costs, limit development, or otherwise reduce our operating profitability both in the united states and abroad. any such actions may affect many aspects of our operations, including requiring permits or other approvals that may impose unforeseen or unduly burdensome conditions or potentially cause delays in our operations; further limiting or prohibiting construction or other activities in environmentally sensitive or other areas; requiring increased capital costs to construct, maintain or upgrade equipment or facilities; or restricting the locations where we may construct facilities or requiring the relocation of facilities. in addition, the u.s. government can prevent or restrict us from doing business in foreign countries. these restrictions and those of foreign governments could limit our ability to operate in, or gain access to, opportunities in various countries, as well as limit our ability to obtain the optimum slate of crude oil and other refinery feedstocks. our foreign operations and those of our joint ventures are further subject to risks of loss of revenue, equipment and property as a result of expropriation, acts of terrorism, war, civil unrest and other political risks; unilateral or forced renegotiation, modification or nullification of existing contracts with governmental entities; and difficulties enforcing rights against a governmental agency because of the doctrine of sovereign immunity and foreign sovereignty over international operations. our foreign operations and those of our joint ventures are also subject to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. actions by both the united states and host governments may affect our operations significantly in the future. renewable fuels, alternative energy mandates and energy conservation efforts could reduce demand for refined products. tax incentives and other subsidies can make renewable fuels and alternative energy more competitive with refined products than they otherwise might be, which may reduce refined product margins and hinder the ability of refined products to compete with renewable fuels. large capital projects can take many years to complete, and market conditions could deteriorate significantly between the project approval date and the project startup date, negatively impacting project returns. we will not approve a large-scale capital project unless we expect it will deliver an acceptable level of return on the capital invested in the project. we base these forecasted project economics on our best estimate of future market conditions. most large-scale projects take several years to complete. during this multi-year period, market conditions can change from those we forecast, and these changes could be significant. accordingly, we may not be able to realize 20 table of contents index to financial statements our expected returns from a large investment in a capital project, and this could negatively impact our results of operations, cash flows and our return on capital employed. our investments in joint ventures decrease our ability to manage risk. we conduct some of our operations, including parts of our midstream, refining and m&amp;s segments, and our entire chemicals segment, through joint ventures in which we share control with our joint venture participants. our joint venture participants may have economic, business or legal interests or goals that are inconsistent with those of the joint venture or us, or our joint venture participants may be unable to meet their economic or other obligations, and we may be required to fulfill those obligations alone. failure by us, or an entity in which we have a joint-venture interest, to adequately manage the risks associated with any acquisitions or joint ventures could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition or results of operations of our joint ventures and, in turn, our business and operations. activities in our chemicals and midstream segments involve numerous risks that may result in accidents or otherwise affect the ability of our equity affiliates to make distributions to us. there are a variety of hazards and operating risks inherent in the manufacturing of petrochemicals and the gathering, processing, transmission, storage, and distribution of natural gas and ngl, such as spills, leaks, explosions and mechanical problems that could cause substantial financial losses. in addition, these risks could result in significant injury, loss of human life, damage to property, environmental pollution and impairment of operations, any of which could result in substantial losses. for assets located near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers, industrial sites and other public gathering areas, the level of damage resulting from these risks could be greater. should any of these risks materialize, it could have a material adverse effect on the business and financial condition of our equity affiliates in these segments and negatively impact their ability to make future distributions to us. our operations present hazards and risks, which may not be fully covered by insurance, if insured. if a significant accident or event occurs for which we are not adequately insured, our operations and financial results could be adversely affected. the scope and nature of our operations present a variety of operational hazards and risks, including explosions, fires, toxic emissions, maritime hazards and natural catastrophes, that must be managed through continual oversight and control. for example, the operation of refineries, power plants, fractionators, pipelines, terminals and vessels is inherently subject to the risks of spills, discharges or other inadvertent releases of petroleum or hazardous substances. if any of these events had previously occurred or occurs in the future in connection with any of our refineries, pipelines or refined products terminals, or in connection with any facilities that receive our wastes or by-products for treatment or disposal, other than events for which we are indemnified, we could be liable for all costs and penalties associated with their remediation under federal, state, local and international environmental laws or common law, and could be liable for property damage to third parties caused by contamination from releases and spills. these and other risks are present throughout our operations. as protection against these hazards and risks, we maintain insurance against many, but not all, potential losses or liabilities arising from such operating risks. as such, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to fully cover us against potential losses arising from such risks. uninsured losses and liabilities arising from operating risks could reduce the funds available to us for capital and investment spending and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are subject to interruptions of supply and increased costs as a result of our reliance on third-party transportation of crude oil, ngl and refined products. we often utilize the services of third parties to transport crude oil, ngl and refined products to and from our facilities. in addition to our own operational risks discussed above, we could experience interruptions of supply or increases in costs to deliver refined products to market if the ability of the pipelines or vessels to transport crude oil or refined products is disrupted because of weather events, accidents, governmental regulations or third-party actions. a prolonged disruption of the ability of a pipeline or vessel to transport crude oil, ngl or refined products to or from one or more of our refineries or other facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 21 table of contents index to financial statements increased regulation of hydraulic fracturing could result in reductions or delays in u.s. production of crude oil and natural gas, which could adversely impact our results of operations. an increasing percentage of crude oil supplied to our refineries and the crude oil and gas production of our midstream segment's customers is being produced from unconventional sources. these reservoirs require hydraulic fracturing completion processes to release the hydrocarbons from the rock so they can flow through casing to the surface. hydraulic fracturing involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into the formation to stimulate hydrocarbon production. the u.s. environmental protection agency, as well as several state agencies, have commenced studies and/or convened hearings regarding the potential environmental impacts of hydraulic fracturing activities. at the same time, certain environmental groups have suggested that additional laws may be needed to more closely and uniformly regulate the hydraulic fracturing process, and legislation has been proposed to provide for such regulation. in addition, some communities have adopted measures to ban hydraulic fracturing in their communities. we cannot predict whether any such legislation will ever be enacted and, if so, what its provisions would be. any additional levels of regulation and permits required with the adoption of new laws and regulations at the federal or state level could result in our having to rely on higher priced crude oil for our refineries. this could lead to delays, increased operating costs and process prohibitions that could reduce the volumes of natural gas that move through dcp midstream's gathering systems and could reduce supplies and increase costs of ngl feedstocks to cpchem ethylene facilities. this could materially adversely affect our results of operations and the ability of dcp midstream and cpchem to make cash distributions to us. dcp midstream's success depends on its ability to obtain new sources of natural gas and ngl. any decrease in the volumes of natural gas dcp midstream gathers could adversely affect its business and operating results. dcp midstream's gathering and transportation pipeline systems are connected to or dependent on the level of production from natural gas wells, which will naturally decline over time. as a result, its cash flows associated with these wells will also decline over time. in order to maintain or increase throughput levels on its gathering and transportation pipeline systems and ngl pipelines and the asset utilization rates at its natural gas processing plants, dcp midstream must continually obtain new supplies. the primary factors affecting dcp midstream's ability to obtain new supplies of natural gas and ngl, and to attract new customers to its assets, include the level of successful drilling activity near these assets, prices of, and the demand for, natural gas and crude oil, producers' desire and ability to obtain necessary permits in an efficient manner, natural gas field characteristics and production performance, surface access and infrastructure issues, and its ability to compete for volumes from successful new wells. if dcp midstream is not able to obtain new supplies of natural gas to replace the natural decline in volumes from existing wells or because of competition, throughput on its pipelines and the utilization rates of its treating and processing facilities would decline. this could have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows, and its ability to make cash distributions to us. competitors that produce their own supply of feedstocks, have more extensive retail outlets, or have greater financial resources may have a competitive advantage. the refining and marketing industry is highly competitive with respect to both feedstock supply and refined product markets. we compete with many companies for available supplies of crude oil and other feedstocks and for outlets for our refined products. we do not produce any of our crude oil feedstocks. some of our competitors, however, obtain a portion of their feedstocks from their own production and some have more extensive retail outlets than we have. competitors that have their own production or extensive retail outlets (and greater brand-name recognition) are at times able to offset losses from refining operations with profits from producing or retailing operations, and may be better positioned to withstand periods of depressed refining margins or feedstock shortages. some of our competitors also have materially greater financial and other resources than we have. such competitors have a greater ability to bear the economic risks inherent in all phases of our business. in addition, we compete with other industries that provide alternative means to satisfy the energy and fuel requirements of our industrial, commercial and individual customers. 22 table of contents index to financial statements we may incur losses as a result of our forward-contract activities and derivative transactions. we currently use commodity derivative instruments, and we expect to use them in the future. if the instruments we utilize to hedge our exposure to various types of risk are not effective, we may incur losses. derivative transactions involve the risk that counterparties may be unable to satisfy their obligations to us. the risk of counterparty default is heightened in a poor economic environment. one of our subsidiaries acts as the general partner of a publicly traded master limited partnership, phillips 66 partners lp, which may involve a greater exposure to legal liability than our historic business operations. one of our subsidiaries acts as the general partner of phillips 66 partners lp, a publicly traded master limited partnership. our control of the general partner of phillips 66 partners may increase the possibility that we could be subject to claims of breach of fiduciary duties, including claims of conflicts of interest, related to phillips 66 partners. any liability resulting from such claims could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. a significant interruption in one or more of our facilities could adversely affect our business. our operations could be subject to significant interruption if one or more of our facilities were to experience a major accident, mechanical failure, or power outage, encounter work stoppages relating to organized labor issues, be damaged by severe weather or other natural or man-made disaster, such as an act of terrorism, or otherwise be forced to shut down. if any facility were to experience an interruption in operations, earnings from the facility could be materially adversely affected (to the extent not recoverable through insurance, if insured) because of lost production and repair costs. a significant interruption in one or more of our facilities could also lead to increased volatility in prices for feedstocks and refined products, and could increase instability in the financial and insurance markets, making it more difficult for us to access capital and to obtain insurance coverage that we consider adequate. our performance depends on the uninterrupted operation of our facilities, which are becoming increasingly dependent on our information technology systems. our performance depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of the manufacturing equipment in our production facilities. the inability to operate one or more of our facilities due to a natural disaster; power outage; labor dispute; or failure of one or more of our information technology, telecommunications, or other systems could significantly impair our ability to manufacture our products. our manufacturing equipment is becoming increasingly dependent on our information technology systems. a disruption in our information technology systems due to a catastrophic event or security breach could interrupt or damage our operations. security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer. in the ordinary course of our business, we collect sensitive data, including personally identifiable information of our customers using credit cards at our branded retail outlets. despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. although we have experienced occasional, actual or attempted breaches of our cybersecurity, none of these breaches has had a material effect on our business, operations or reputation (or compromised any customer data). any such breaches could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of customer information, disrupt the services we provide to customers, and damage our reputation, any of which could adversely affect our business. 23 table of contents index to financial statements the level of returns on pension and postretirement plan assets and the actuarial assumptions used for valuation purposes could affect our earnings and cash flows in future periods. assumptions used in determining projected benefit obligations and the expected return on plan assets for our pension plan and other postretirement benefit plans are evaluated by us based on a variety of independent market information and in consultation with outside actuaries. if we determine that changes are warranted in the assumptions used, such as the discount rate, expected long-term rate of return, or health care cost trend rate, our future pension and postretirement benefit expenses and funding requirements could increase. in addition, several factors could cause actual results to differ significantly from the actuarial assumptions that we use. funding obligations are determined based on the value of assets and liabilities on a specific date as required under relevant regulations. future pension funding requirements, and the timing of funding payments, could be affected by legislation enacted by governmental authorities. in connection with the separation, conocophillips has agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities and we have agreed to indemnify conocophillips for certain liabilities. if we are required to act on these indemnities to conocophillips, we may need to divert cash to meet those obligations and our financial results could be negatively impacted. the conocophillips indemnity may not be sufficient to insure us against the full amount of liabilities for which it has been allocated responsibility, and conocophillips may not be able to satisfy its indemnification obligations in the future. pursuant to the indemnification and release agreement and certain other agreements with conocophillips entered into in connection with the separation, conocophillips agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities, and we agreed to indemnify conocophillips for certain liabilities. indemnities that we may be required to provide conocophillips are not subject to any cap, may be significant and could negatively impact our business, particularly indemnities relating to our actions that could impact the tax-free nature of the distribution of phillips 66 stock. third parties could also seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities that conocophillips has agreed to retain. further, the indemnity from conocophillips may not be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, and conocophillips may not be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations. moreover, even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from conocophillips any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear these losses ourselves. each of these risks could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. we are subject to continuing contingent liabilities of conocophillips following the separation. notwithstanding the separation, there are several significant areas where the liabilities of conocophillips may become our obligations. for example, under the internal revenue code and the related rules and regulations, each corporation that was a member of the conocophillips consolidated u.s. federal income tax reporting group during any taxable period or portion of any taxable period ending on or before the effective time of the separation is jointly and severally liable for the u.s. federal income tax liability of the entire conocophillips consolidated tax reporting group for that taxable period. in connection with the separation, we entered into the tax sharing agreement with conocophillips that allocates the responsibility for prior period taxes of the conocophillips consolidated tax reporting group between us and conocophillips. conocophillips may be unable to pay any prior period taxes for which it is responsible, and we could be required to pay the entire amount of such taxes. other provisions of federal law establish similar liability for other matters, including laws governing tax-qualified pension plans as well as other contingent liabilities. if the distribution in connection with the separation, together with certain related transactions, does not qualify as a transaction that is generally tax-free for u.s. federal income tax purposes, our stockholders and conocophillips could be subject to significant tax liability and, in certain circumstances, we could be required to indemnify conocophillips for material taxes pursuant to indemnification obligations under the tax sharing agreement. conocophillips received a private letter ruling from the internal revenue service (irs) substantially to the effect that, among other things, the distribution, together with certain related transactions, qualified as a transaction that is generally tax-free for u.s. federal income tax purposes under sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(d) of the code. the private letter ruling and the tax opinion that conocophillips received relied on certain representations, assumptions and undertakings, including those relating to the past and future conduct of our business, and neither the private letter ruling nor the opinion would be valid if such representations, assumptions and undertakings were incorrect. moreover, the private letter ruling does not address all the issues that are relevant to determining whether the distribution qualified for tax-free treatment. notwithstanding the private letter ruling and the tax opinion, the irs could determine the distribution should be treated 24 table of contents index to financial statements as a taxable transaction for u.s. federal income tax purposes if it determines any of the representations, assumptions or undertakings that were included in the request for the private letter ruling are false or have been violated or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion that are not covered by the irs ruling. if the irs were to determine that the distribution failed to qualify for tax-free treatment, in general, conocophillips would be subject to tax as if it had sold the phillips 66 common stock in a taxable sale for its fair market value, and conocophillips stockholders who received shares of phillips 66 common stock in the distribution would be subject to tax as if they had received a taxable distribution equal to the fair market value of such shares. under the tax sharing agreement, we would generally be required to indemnify conocophillips against any tax resulting from the distribution to the extent that such tax resulted from (i) any of our representations or undertakings being incorrect or violated, or (ii) other actions or failures to act by us. our indemnification obligations to conocophillips and its subsidiaries, officers and directors are not limited by any maximum amount. if we are required to indemnify conocophillips or such other persons under the circumstances set forth in the tax sharing agreement, we may be subject to substantial liabilities. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk financial instrument market risk we and certain of our subsidiaries hold and issue derivative contracts and financial instruments that expose our cash flows or earnings to changes in commodity prices, foreign currency exchange rates or interest rates. we may use financial- and commodity-based derivative contracts to manage the risks produced by changes in the prices of crude oil and related products, natural gas, ngl, and electric power; fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates; or to capture market opportunities. our use of derivative instruments is governed by an authority limitations document approved by our board of directors that prohibits the use of highly leveraged derivatives or derivative instruments without sufficient market liquidity for comparable valuations. the authority limitations document also establishes value at risk (var) limits, and compliance with these limits is monitored daily. our chief financial officer monitors risks resulting from foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. our president monitors commodity price risk. the commercial organization manages our commercial marketing, optimizes our commodity flows and positions, and monitors related risks of our businesses. commodity price risk we sell into or receive supply from the worldwide crude oil, refined products, natural gas, ngl, and electric power markets, exposing our revenues, purchases, cost of operating activities, and cash flows to fluctuations in the prices for these commodities. generally, our policy is to remain exposed to the market prices of commodities. consistent with this policy, our commercial organization uses derivative contracts to effectively convert our exposure from fixed-price sales contracts, often requested by refined product customers, back to fluctuating market prices. conversely, our commercial organization also uses futures, forwards, swaps and options in various markets to accomplish the following objectives to optimize the value of our supply chain, and this may reduce our exposure to fluctuations in market prices: in addition to cash settlement prior to contract expiration, exchange-traded futures contracts may be settled by physical delivery of the commodity. this provides another source of supply to balance physical systems or to meet our refinery requirements and marketing demand. manage the risk to our cash flows from price exposures on specific crude oil, refined product, natural gas, ngl, and electric power transactions. enable us to use the market knowledge gained from these activities to capture market opportunities such as moving physical commodities to more profitable locations, storing commodities to capture seasonal or time premiums, and blending commodities to capture quality upgrades. derivatives may be utilized to optimize these activities. we use a var model to estimate the loss in fair value that could potentially result on a single day from the effect of adverse changes in market conditions on the derivative financial instruments and derivative commodity instruments held or issued, including commodity purchase and sales contracts recorded on the balance sheet at december 31, 2016 , as derivative instruments. using monte carlo simulation, a 95 percent confidence level and a one-day holding period, the var for those instruments issued or held for trading purposes at december 31, 2016 and 2015 , was immaterial to our cash flows and net income. the var for instruments held for purposes other than trading at december 31, 2016 and 2015 , was also immaterial to our cash flows and net income. 63 table of contents index to financial statements interest rate risk our use of fixed- or variable-rate debt directly exposes us to interest rate risk. fixed-rate debt, such as our senior notes, exposes us to changes in the fair value of our debt due to changes in market interest rates. fixed-rate debt also exposes us to the risk that we may need to refinance maturing debt with new debt at higher rates, or that we may be obligated to pay rates higher than the current market. variable-rate debt, such as borrowings under our revolving credit facility, exposes us to short-term changes in market rates that impact our interest expense. the following tables provide information about our debt instruments that are sensitive to changes in u.s. interest rates. these tables present principal cash flows and related weighted-average interest rates by expected maturity dates. weighted-average variable rates are based on effective rates at the reporting date. the carrying amount of our floating-rate debt approximates its fair value. the fair value of the fixed-rate financial instruments is estimated based on quoted market prices. millions of dollars except as indicated expected maturity date fixed rate maturity average interest rate floating rate maturity average interest rate year-end 2016 2017 $ 516 3.08 % $ 15 1.80 % 2018 518 2.39 12 0.80 2019 18 7.00 2020 816 2.76 12 0.80 2021 221 1.86 remaining years 7,926 4.72 total $ 9,794 $ 260 fair value $ 10,260 $ 260 millions of dollars except as indicated expected maturity date fixed rate maturity average interest rate floating rate maturity average interest rate year-end 2015 2016 $ 27 7.24 % $ % 2017 1,529 3.03 2018 26 7.18 12 0.01 2019 24 7.12 2020 319 2.90 12 0.01 remaining years 6,800 4.79 26 0.01 total $ 8,725 $ 50 fair value $ 8,434 $ 50 for additional information about our use of derivative instruments, see note 16 derivatives and financial instruments , in the notes to consolidated financial statements. 64 table of contents index to financial statements cautionary statement for the purposes of the safe harbor provisions of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 this report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27a of the securities act of 1933 and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934. you can identify our forward-looking statements by the words anticipate, estimate, believe, budget, continue, could, intend, may, plan, potential, predict, seek, should, will, would, expect, objective, projection, forecast, goal, guidance, outlook, effort, target and similar expressions. we based the forward-looking statements on our current expectations, estimates and projections about us and the industries in which we operate in general. we caution you these statements are not guarantees of future performance as they involve assumptions that, while made in good faith, may prove to be incorrect, and involve risks and uncertainties we cannot predict. in addition, we based many of these forward-looking statements on assumptions about future events that may prove to be inaccurate. accordingly, our actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what we have expressed or forecast in the forward-looking statements. any differences could result from a variety of factors, including the following: fluctuations in ngl, crude oil, petroleum products and natural gas prices and refining, marketing and petrochemical margins. failure of new products and services to achieve market acceptance. unexpected changes in costs or technical requirements for constructing, modifying or operating our facilities or transporting our products. unexpected technological or commercial difficulties in manufacturing, refining or transporting our products, including chemicals products. lack of, or disruptions in, adequate and reliable transportation for our ngl, crude oil, natural gas and refined products. the level and success of drilling and quality of production volumes around dcp midstream's assets and its ability to connect supplies to its gathering and processing systems, residue gas and ngl infrastructure. inability to timely obtain or maintain permits, including those necessary for capital projects; comply with government regulations; or make capital expenditures required to maintain compliance. failure to complete definitive agreements and feasibility studies for, and to timely complete construction of, announced and future capital projects. potential disruption or interruption of our operations due to accidents, weather events, civil unrest, political events, terrorism or cyber attacks. international monetary conditions and exchange controls. substantial investment or reduced demand for products as a result of existing or future environmental rules and regulations. liability resulting from litigation or for remedial actions, including removal and reclamation obligations under environmental regulations. general domestic and international economic and political developments including: armed hostilities; expropriation of assets; changes in governmental policies relating to ngl, crude oil, natural gas or refined product pricing, regulation or taxation; and other political, economic or diplomatic developments. changes in tax, environmental and other laws and regulations (including alternative energy mandates) applicable to our business. limited access to capital or significantly higher cost of capital related to changes to our credit profile or illiquidity or uncertainty in the domestic or international financial markets. the operation, financing and distribution decisions of our joint ventures. domestic and foreign supplies of crude oil and other feedstocks. domestic and foreign supplies of petrochemicals and refined products, such as gasoline, diesel, aviation fuel and home heating oil. governmental policies relating to exports of crude oil and natural gas. overcapacity or undercapacity in the midstream, chemicals and refining industries. fluctuations in consumer demand for refined products. the factors generally described in item 1a. risk factors in this report. 65 table of contents index to financial statementsrisk factors you should carefully consider the following risk factors in addition to the other information included in this annual report on form 10-k. each of these risk factors could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition, as well as affect the value of an investment in our common stock. our operating results and future rate of growth are exposed to the effects of changing commodity prices and refining, marketing and petrochemical margins. our revenues, operating results and future rate of growth are highly dependent on a number of factors, including fixed and variable expenses (including the cost of crude oil, ngl, and other refining and petrochemical feedstocks) and the margin we can derive from selling refined and chemicals segment products. the prices of feedstocks and our products fluctuate substantially. these prices depend on numerous factors beyond our control, including the global supply and demand for feedstocks and our products, which are subject to, among other things: changes in the global economy and the level of foreign and domestic production of crude oil, natural gas and ngl and refined, petrochemical and plastics products. availability of feedstocks and refined products and the infrastructure to transport them. local factors, including market conditions, the level of operations of other facilities in our markets, and the volume of products imported and exported. threatened or actual terrorist incidents, acts of war and other global political conditions. government regulations. weather conditions, hurricanes or other natural disasters. the price of crude oil influences prices for refined products. we do not produce crude oil and must purchase all of the crude oil we process. many crude oils available on the world market will not meet the quality restrictions for use in our refineries. others are not economical to use due to high transportation costs or for other reasons. the prices for crude oil and refined products can fluctuate differently based on global, regional and local market conditions. in addition, the timing of the relative movement of the prices (both among different classes of refined products and among various global markets for similar refined products), as well as the overall change in refined product prices, can reduce refining margins and could have a significant impact on our refining, wholesale marketing and retail operations, revenues, operating income and cash flows. also, crude oil supply contracts generally have market-responsive pricing provisions. we normally purchase our refinery feedstocks weeks before manufacturing and selling the refined products. changes in prices that occur between when we purchase feedstocks and when we sell the refined products produced from these feedstocks could have a significant effect on our financial results. we also purchase refined products produced by others for sale to our customers. price changes that occur between when we purchase and sell these refined products also could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the price of feedstocks also influences prices for petrochemical and plastics products. although our chemicals segment transports and fractionates feedstocks to meet a portion of their demand and has certain long-term feedstock supply contracts with others, it is still subject to volatile feedstock prices. in addition, the petrochemicals industry is both cyclical and volatile. cyclicality occurs when periods of tight supply, resulting in increased prices and profit margins, are followed by periods of capacity expansion, resulting in oversupply and declining prices and profit margins. volatility occurs as a result of changes in supply and demand for products, changes in energy prices, and changes in various other economic conditions around the world. uncertainty and illiquidity in credit and capital markets can impair our ability to obtain credit and financing on acceptable terms and can adversely affect the financial strength of our business partners. our ability to obtain credit and capital depends in large measure on the state of the credit and capital markets, which is beyond our control. our ability to access credit and capital markets may be restricted at a time when we would like, or need, access to those markets, which could constrain our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. in addition, the cost and availability of debt and equity financing may be adversely impacted by unstable or illiquid market conditions. protracted uncertainty and illiquidity in these markets also could have an adverse impact on our lenders, commodity hedging counterparties, or our customers, preventing them from meeting their obligations to us. 19 table of contents index to financial statements from time to time, our cash needs may exceed our internally generated cash flow, and our business could be materially and adversely affected if we are unable to obtain necessary funds from financing activities. from time to time, we may need to supplement cash generated from operations with proceeds from financing activities. uncertainty and illiquidity in financial markets may materially impact the ability of the participating financial institutions to fund their commitments to us under our liquidity facilities. accordingly, we may not be able to obtain the full amount of the funds available under our liquidity facilities to satisfy our cash requirements, and our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial position. deterioration in our credit profile could increase our costs of borrowing money and limit our access to the capital markets and commercial credit, and could trigger co-venturer rights under joint-venture arrangements. our or phillips 66 partners' credit ratings could be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, the circumstances warrant. if a rating agency were to downgrade our rating below investment grade, our or phillips 66 partners' borrowing costs would increase, and our funding sources could decrease. in addition, a failure by us to maintain an investment grade rating could affect our business relationships with suppliers and operating partners. for example, our agreement with chevron regarding cpchem permits chevron to buy our 50 percent interest in cpchem for fair market value if we experience a change in control or if both standard &amp; poor's and moody's lower our credit ratings below investment grade and the credit rating from either rating agency remains below investment grade for 365 days thereafter, with fair market value determined by agreement or by nationally recognized investment banks. as a result of these factors, a downgrade of credit ratings could have a materially adverse impact on our future operations and financial position. we expect to continue to incur substantial capital expenditures and operating costs as a result of our compliance with existing and future environmental laws and regulations. likewise, future environmental laws and regulations may impact or limit our current business plans and reduce demand for our products. our business is subject to numerous laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. these laws and regulations continue to increase in both number and complexity and affect our operations with respect to, among other things: the discharge of pollutants into the environment. emissions into the atmosphere (such as nitrogen oxides, sulfur dioxide and mercury emissions, and greenhouse gas emissions as they are, or may become, regulated). the quantity of renewable fuels that must be blended into motor fuels. the handling, use, storage, transportation, disposal and cleanup of hazardous materials and hazardous and nonhazardous wastes. the dismantlement and abandonment of our facilities and restoration of our properties at the end of their useful lives. we have incurred and will continue to incur substantial capital, operating and maintenance, and remediation expenditures as a result of these laws and regulations. to the extent these expenditures, as with all costs, are not ultimately reflected in the prices of our products and services, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in future periods could be materially adversely affected. the u.s. environmental protection agency (epa) has implemented a renewable fuel standard (rfs) pursuant to the energy policy act of 2005 and the energy independence and security act of 2007. the rfs program sets annual quotas for the quantity of renewable fuels (such as ethanol) that must be blended into motor fuels consumed in the united states. to provide certain flexibility in compliance options available to the industry, a renewable identification number (rin) is assigned to each gallon of renewable fuel produced in, or imported into, the united states. as a producer of petroleum-based motor fuels, we are obligated to blend renewable fuels into the products we produce at a rate that is at least commensurate to the epa's quota and, to the extent we do not, we must purchase rins in the open market to satisfy our obligation under the rfs program. to the extent the epa mandates a blending quantity of renewable fuel that exceeds the amount that is commercially feasible to blend into motor fuel (a situation commonly referred to as the blend wall ), our operations could be materially adversely impacted, up to and including a reduction in produced motor fuel. 20 table of contents index to financial statements the adoption of climate change legislation or regulation could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the refined products we produce. the u.s. government, including the epa, as well as several state and international governments, have either considered or adopted legislation or regulations in an effort to reduce greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions. these proposed or promulgated laws apply or could apply in states and/or countries where we have interests or may have interests in the future. in addition, various groups suggest that additional laws may be needed in an effort to address climate change, as illustrated by the paris agreement negotiated at the 2015 united nations conference on climate change, referred to as cop 21, which entered into force on november 4, 2016. we cannot predict the extent to which any such legislation or regulation will be enacted and, if so, what its provisions would be. to the extent we incur additional costs required to comply with the adoption of new laws and regulations that are not ultimately reflected in the prices of our products and services, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in future periods could be materially adversely affected. in addition, demand for the refined products we produce could be adversely affected. climate change may adversely affect our facilities and our ongoing operations. the potential physical effects of climate change on our operations are highly uncertain and depend upon the unique geographic and environmental factors present. examples of such effects include rising sea levels at our coastal facilities, changing storm patterns and intensities, and changing temperature levels. as many of our facilities are located near coastal areas, rising sea levels may disrupt our ability to operate those facilities or transport crude oil and refined petroleum products. extended periods of such disruption could have an adverse effect on our results of operation. we could also incur substantial costs to prevent or repair damage to these facilities. domestic and worldwide political and economic developments could affect our operations and materially reduce our profitability and cash flows. actions of the u.s., state, local and international governments through tax and other legislation or regulation, executive order, permit or other review of infrastructure or facility development, and commercial restrictions could delay projects, increase costs, limit development, or otherwise reduce our operating profitability both in the united states and abroad. any such actions may affect many aspects of our operations, including requiring permits or other approvals that may impose unforeseen or unduly burdensome conditions or potentially cause delays in our operations; further limiting or prohibiting construction or other activities in environmentally sensitive or other areas; requiring increased capital costs to construct, maintain or upgrade equipment or facilities; or restricting the locations where we may construct facilities or requiring the relocation of facilities. in addition, the u.s. government can prevent or restrict us from doing business in foreign countries. these restrictions and those of foreign governments could limit our ability to operate in, or gain access to various countries, as well as limit our ability to obtain the optimum slate of crude oil and other refinery feedstocks. our foreign operations and those of our joint ventures are further subject to risks of loss of revenue, equipment and property as a result of expropriation, acts of terrorism, war, civil unrest and other political risks; unilateral or forced renegotiation, modification or nullification of existing contracts with governmental entities; and difficulties enforcing rights against a governmental agency because of the doctrine of sovereign immunity and foreign sovereignty over international operations. our foreign operations and those of our joint ventures are also subject to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. actions by both the united states and host governments may affect our operations significantly in the future. renewable fuels, alternative energy mandates and energy conservation efforts could reduce demand for refined products. tax incentives and other subsidies can make renewable fuels and alternative energy more competitive with refined products than they otherwise might be, which may reduce refined product margins and hinder the ability of refined products to compete with renewable fuels. large capital projects can take many years to complete, and market conditions could deteriorate significantly between the project approval date and the project startup date, negatively impacting project returns. our basis for approving a large-scale capital project is the expectation that it will deliver an acceptable level of return on the capital invested. we base these forecasted project economics on our best estimate of future market conditions. most large-scale projects take several years to complete. during this multi-year period, market conditions can change from those we forecast, and these changes could be significant. accordingly, we may not be able to realize our expected 21 table of contents index to financial statements returns from a large investment in a capital project, and this could negatively impact our results of operations, cash flows and our return on capital employed. our investments in joint ventures decrease our ability to manage risk. we conduct some of our operations, including parts of our midstream, refining and m&amp;s segments, and our entire chemicals segment, through joint ventures in which we share control with our joint-venture participants. our joint-venture participants may have economic, business or legal interests or goals that are inconsistent with ours or those of the joint venture, or our joint-venture participants may be unable to meet their economic or other obligations, and we may be required to fulfill those obligations alone. failure by us, or an entity in which we have a joint-venture interest, to adequately manage the risks associated with any acquisitions or joint ventures could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition or results of operations of our joint ventures and, in turn, our business and operations. activities in our chemicals and midstream segments involve numerous risks that may result in accidents that could affect the ability of our equity affiliates to make distributions to us. there are a variety of hazards and operating risks inherent in the manufacturing of petrochemicals and the gathering, processing, transmission, storage, and distribution of natural gas and ngl, such as spills, leaks, explosions and mechanical problems that could cause substantial financial losses. in addition, these risks could result in significant injury, loss of human life, damage to property, environmental pollution and impairment of operations, any of which could result in substantial losses. for assets located near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers, industrial sites and other public gathering areas, the level of damage resulting from these risks could be greater. should any of these risks materialize, it could have a material adverse effect on the business and financial condition of our equity affiliates in these segments and negatively impact their ability to make future distributions to us. our operations present hazards and risks, which may not be fully covered by insurance, if insured. if a significant accident or event occurs for which we are not adequately insured, our operations and financial results could be adversely affected. the scope and nature of our operations present a variety of operational hazards and risks, including explosions, fires, toxic emissions, maritime hazards and natural catastrophes, that must be managed through continual oversight and control. for example, the operation of refineries, power plants, fractionators, pipelines, terminals and vessels is inherently subject to the risks of spills, discharges or other inadvertent releases of petroleum or hazardous substances. if any of these events had previously occurred or occurs in the future in connection with any of our refineries, pipelines or refined products terminals, or in connection with any facilities that receive our wastes or by-products for treatment or disposal, other than events for which we are indemnified, we could be liable for all costs and penalties associated with their remediation under federal, state, local and international environmental laws or common law, and could be liable for property damage to third parties caused by contamination from releases and spills. these and other risks are present throughout our operations. as protection against these hazards and risks, we maintain insurance against many, but not all, potential losses or liabilities arising from such operating risks. as such, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to fully cover us against potential losses arising from such risks. uninsured losses and liabilities arising from operating risks could reduce the funds available to us for capital and investment spending and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are subject to interruptions of supply and increased costs as a result of our reliance on third-party transportation of crude oil, ngl and refined products. we often utilize the services of third parties to transport crude oil, ngl and refined products to and from our facilities. in addition to our own operational risks discussed above, we could experience interruptions of supply or increases in costs to deliver refined products to market if the ability of the pipelines or vessels to transport crude oil or refined products is disrupted because of weather events, accidents, governmental regulations or third-party actions. a prolonged disruption of the ability of a pipeline or vessel to transport crude oil, ngl or refined products to or from one or more of our refineries or other facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 22 table of contents index to financial statements increased regulation of hydraulic fracturing could result in reductions or delays in u.s. production of crude oil and natural gas, which could adversely impact our results of operations. an increasing percentage of crude oil supplied to our refineries and the crude oil and gas production of our midstream segment's customers is being produced from unconventional oil shale reservoirs. these reservoirs require hydraulic fracturing completion processes to release the hydrocarbons from the rock so they can flow through casing to the surface. hydraulic fracturing involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into the formation to stimulate hydrocarbon production. the epa, as well as several state agencies, have commenced studies and/or convened hearings regarding the potential environmental impacts of hydraulic fracturing activities. at the same time, certain environmental groups have suggested that additional laws may be needed to more closely and uniformly regulate the hydraulic fracturing process, and legislation has been proposed to provide for such regulation. in addition, some communities have adopted measures to ban hydraulic fracturing in their communities. we cannot predict whether any such legislation will ever be enacted and, if so, what its provisions would be. any additional levels of regulation and permits required with the adoption of new laws and regulations at the federal or state level could result in our having to rely on higher priced crude oil for our refineries. this could lead to delays, increased operating costs and process prohibitions that could reduce the volumes of natural gas that move through dcp midstream's gathering systems and could reduce supplies and increase costs of ngl feedstocks to cpchem ethylene facilities. this could materially adversely affect our results of operations and the ability of dcp midstream and cpchem to make cash distributions to us. dcp midstream's success depends on its ability to obtain new sources of natural gas and ngl. any decrease in the volumes of natural gas dcp midstream gathers could adversely affect its business and operating results. dcp midstream's gathering and transportation pipeline systems are connected to or dependent on the level of production from natural gas wells, which naturally declines over time. as a result, its cash flows associated with these wells will also decline over time. in order to maintain or increase throughput levels on its gathering and transportation pipeline systems and ngl pipelines and the asset utilization rates at its natural gas processing plants, dcp midstream must continually obtain new supplies. the primary factors affecting dcp midstream's ability to obtain new supplies of natural gas and ngl, and to attract new customers to its assets, include the level of successful drilling activity near these assets, prices of, and the demand for, natural gas and crude oil, producers' desire and ability to obtain necessary permits in an efficient manner, natural gas field characteristics and production performance, surface access and infrastructure issues, and its ability to compete for volumes from successful new wells. if dcp midstream is not able to obtain new supplies of natural gas to replace the natural decline in volumes from existing wells or because of competition, throughput on its pipelines and the utilization rates of its treating and processing facilities would decline. this could have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows, and its ability to make cash distributions to us. competitors that produce their own supply of feedstocks, have more extensive retail outlets, or have greater financial resources may have a competitive advantage. the refining and marketing industry is highly competitive with respect to both feedstock supply and refined product markets. we compete with many companies for available supplies of crude oil and other feedstocks and for outlets for our refined products. we do not produce any of our crude oil feedstocks. some of our competitors, however, obtain a portion of their feedstocks from their own production and some have more extensive retail outlets than we have. competitors that have their own production or extensive retail outlets (and greater brand-name recognition) are at times able to offset losses from refining operations with profits from producing or retailing operations, and may be better positioned to withstand periods of depressed refining margins or feedstock shortages. some of our competitors also have materially greater financial and other resources than we have. such competitors have a greater ability to bear the economic risks inherent in all phases of our business. in addition, we compete with other industries that provide alternative means to satisfy the energy and fuel requirements of our industrial, commercial and individual customers. 23 table of contents index to financial statements we may incur losses as a result of our forward-contract activities and derivative transactions. we currently use commodity derivative instruments, and we expect to use them in the future. if the instruments we utilize to hedge our exposure to various types of risk are not effective, we may incur losses. derivative transactions involve the risk that counterparties may be unable to satisfy their obligations to us. the risk of counterparty default is heightened in a poor economic environment. one of our subsidiaries acts as the general partner of a publicly traded master limited partnership, phillips 66 partners, which may involve a greater exposure to legal liability than our historic business operations. one of our subsidiaries acts as the general partner of phillips 66 partners, a publicly traded master limited partnership. our control of the general partner of phillips 66 partners may increase the possibility that we could be subject to claims of breach of fiduciary duties, including claims of conflicts of interest, related to phillips 66 partners. any liability resulting from such claims could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. a significant interruption in one or more of our facilities could adversely affect our business. our operations could be subject to significant interruption if one or more of our facilities were to experience a major accident, mechanical failure, or power outage, encounter work stoppages relating to organized labor issues, be damaged by severe weather or other natural or man-made disaster, such as an act of terrorism, or otherwise be forced to shut down. if any facility were to experience an interruption in operations, earnings from the facility could be materially adversely affected (to the extent not recoverable through insurance, if insured) because of lost production and repair costs. a significant interruption in one or more of our facilities could also lead to increased volatility in prices for feedstocks and refined products, and could increase instability in the financial and insurance markets, making it more difficult for us to access capital and to obtain insurance coverage that we consider adequate. our performance depends on the uninterrupted operation of our facilities, which are becoming increasingly dependent on our information technology systems. our performance depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of the manufacturing equipment in our production facilities. the inability to operate one or more of our facilities due to a natural disaster; power outage; labor dispute; or failure of one or more of our information technology, telecommunications, or other systems could significantly impair our ability to manufacture our products. our manufacturing equipment is becoming increasingly dependent on our information technology systems. a disruption in our information technology systems due to a catastrophic event or security breach could interrupt or damage our operations. security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer. in the ordinary course of our business, we collect sensitive data, including personally identifiable information of our customers using credit cards at our branded retail outlets. despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure , or information technology and infrastructure of our third-party service providers (e.g., cloud-based service providers), may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. although we have experienced occasional, actual or attempted breaches of our cybersecurity, none of these breaches has had a material effect on our business, operations or reputation (or compromised any customer data). any such breaches could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of customer information, disrupt the services we provide to customers, and damage our reputation, any of which could adversely affect our business. 24 table of contents index to financial statements the level of returns on pension and postretirement plan assets and the actuarial assumptions used for valuation purposes could affect our earnings and cash flows in future periods. assumptions used in determining projected benefit obligations and the expected return on plan assets for our pension plan and other postretirement benefit plans are evaluated by us based on a variety of independent sources of market information and in consultation with outside actuaries. if we determine that changes are warranted in the assumptions used, such as the discount rate, expected long-term rate of return, or health care cost trend rate, our future pension and postretirement benefit expenses and funding requirements could increase. in addition, several factors could cause actual results to differ significantly from the actuarial assumptions that we use. funding obligations are determined based on the value of assets and liabilities on a specific date as required under relevant regulations. future pension funding requirements, and the timing of funding payments, could be affected by legislation enacted by governmental authorities. in connection with the separation, conocophillips has indemnified us for certain liabilities and we have agreed to indemnify conocophillips for certain liabilities. if we are required to act on these indemnities to conocophillips, we may need to use cash to meet those obligations and our financial results could be negatively impacted. the conocophillips indemnity may not be sufficient to insure us against the full amount of liabilities for which it has been allocated responsibility, and conocophillips may not be able to satisfy its indemnification obligations in the future. pursuant to the indemnification and release agreement and certain other agreements with conocophillips entered into in connection with the separation, conocophillips agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities, and we agreed to indemnify conocophillips for certain liabilities. indemnities that we may be required to provide conocophillips are not subject to any cap, may be significant and could negatively impact our business, particularly indemnities relating to our actions that could impact the tax-free nature of the distribution of phillips 66 stock. third parties could also seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities that conocophillips has agreed to retain. further, the indemnity from conocophillips may not be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, and conocophillips may not be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations. moreover, even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from conocophillips any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear these losses ourselves. each of these risks could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. we are subject to continuing contingent liabilities of conocophillips following the separation. notwithstanding the separation, there are several significant areas where the liabilities of conocophillips may become our obligations. for example, under the internal revenue code and the related rules and regulations, each corporation that was a member of the conocophillips consolidated u.s. federal income tax reporting group during any taxable period or portion of any taxable period ending on or before the effective time of the separation is jointly and severally liable for the u.s. federal income tax liability of the entire conocophillips consolidated tax reporting group for that taxable period. in connection with the separation, we entered into the tax sharing agreement with conocophillips that allocates the responsibility for prior period taxes of the conocophillips consolidated tax reporting group between us and conocophillips. conocophillips may be unable to pay any prior period taxes for which it is responsible, and we could be required to pay the entire amount of such taxes. other provisions of federal law establish similar liability for other matters, including laws governing tax-qualified pension plans as well as other contingent liabilities. if the distribution in connection with the separation, together with certain related transactions, does not qualify as a transaction that is generally tax-free for u.s. federal income tax purposes, our stockholders and conocophillips could be subject to significant tax liability and, in certain circumstances, we could be required to indemnify conocophillips for material taxes pursuant to indemnification obligations under the tax sharing agreement. conocophillips received a private letter ruling from the internal revenue service (irs) substantially to the effect that, among other things, the distribution, together with certain related transactions, qualified as a transaction that is generally tax-free for u.s. federal income tax purposes under sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(d) of the code. the private letter ruling and the tax opinion that conocophillips received relied on certain representations, assumptions and undertakings, including those relating to the past and future conduct of our business, and neither the private letter ruling nor the opinion would be valid if such representations, assumptions and undertakings were incorrect. moreover, the private letter ruling does not address all the issues that are relevant to determining whether the distribution qualified for tax-free treatment. notwithstanding the private letter ruling and the tax opinion, the irs could determine the distribution should be treated as a taxable transaction for u.s. federal income tax purposes if it determines any of the representations, assumptions or 25 table of contents index to financial statements undertakings that were included in the request for the private letter ruling are false or have been violated or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion that are not covered by the irs ruling. if the irs were to determine that the distribution failed to qualify for tax-free treatment, in general, conocophillips would be subject to tax as if it had sold the phillips 66 common stock in a taxable sale for its fair market value, and conocophillips stockholders who received shares of phillips 66 common stock in the distribution would be subject to tax as if they had received a taxable distribution equal to the fair market value of such shares. under the tax sharing agreement, we would generally be required to indemnify conocophillips against any tax resulting from the distribution to the extent that such tax resulted from (i) any of our representations or undertakings being incorrect or violated, or (ii) other actions or failures to act by us. our indemnification obligations to conocophillips and its subsidiaries, officers and directors are not limited by any maximum amount. if we are required to indemnify conocophillips or such other persons under the circumstances set forth in the tax sharing agreement, we may be subject to substantial liabilities. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk financial instrument market risk we and certain of our subsidiaries hold and issue derivative contracts and financial instruments that expose our cash flows or earnings to changes in commodity prices, foreign currency exchange rates or interest rates. we may use financial- and commodity-based derivative contracts to manage the risks produced by changes in the prices of crude oil and related products, natural gas, ngl, and electric power; fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates; or to capture market opportunities. our use of derivative instruments is governed by an authority limitations document approved by our board of directors, that prohibits the use of highly leveraged derivatives or derivative instruments without sufficient market liquidity for comparable valuations. the authority limitations document also establishes value at risk (var) limits, and compliance with these limits is monitored daily. our chief financial officer monitors risks resulting from foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. our executive vice president, marketing and commercial monitors commodity price risk. the commercial organization manages our commercial marketing, optimizes our commodity flows and positions, and monitors related risks of our businesses. commodity price risk we sell into or receive supply from the worldwide crude oil, refined products, natural gas, ngl, and electric power markets, exposing our revenues, purchases, cost of operating activities, and cash flows to fluctuations in the prices for these commodities. generally, our policy is to remain exposed to the market prices of commodities. consistent with this policy, our commercial organization uses derivative contracts to effectively convert our exposure from fixed-price sales contracts, often requested by refined product customers, back to fluctuating market prices. conversely, our commercial organization also uses futures, forwards, swaps and options in various markets to accomplish the following objectives to optimize the value of our supply chain, and this may reduce our exposure to fluctuations in market prices: in addition to cash settlement prior to contract expiration, exchange-traded futures contracts may be settled by physical delivery of the commodity. this provides another source of supply to balance physical systems or to meet our refinery requirements and marketing demand. manage the risk to our cash flows from price exposures on specific crude oil, refined product, natural gas, ngl, and electric power transactions. enable us to use the market knowledge gained from these activities to capture market opportunities such as moving physical commodities to more profitable locations, storing commodities to capture seasonal or time premiums, and blending commodities to capture quality upgrades. derivatives may be utilized to optimize these activities. we use a var model to estimate the loss in fair value that could potentially result on a single day from the effect of adverse changes in market conditions on the derivative financial instruments and derivative commodity instruments held or issued, including commodity purchase and sales contracts recorded on the balance sheet at december 31, 2017 , as derivative instruments. using the monte carlo simulation, a 95 percent confidence level and a one-day holding period, the var for those instruments issued or held for trading purposes at december 31, 2017 and 2016 , was immaterial to our cash flows and net income. the var for instruments held for purposes other than trading at december 31, 2017 and 2016 , was also immaterial to our cash flows and net income. 67 table of contents index to financial statements interest rate risk our use of fixed- or variable-rate debt directly exposes us to interest rate risk. fixed-rate debt, such as our senior notes, exposes us to changes in the fair value of our debt due to changes in market interest rates. fixed-rate debt also exposes us to the risk that we may need to refinance maturing debt with new debt at higher rates, or that we may be obligated to pay rates higher than the current market. variable-rate debt, such as our floating-rate notes or borrowings under our revolving credit facility, exposes us to short-term changes in market rates that impact our interest expense. the following tables provide information about our debt instruments that are sensitive to changes in u.s. interest rates. these tables present principal cash flows and related weighted-average interest rates by expected maturity dates. weighted-average variable rates are based on effective rates at the reporting date. the carrying amount of our floating-rate debt approximates its fair value. the fair value of the fixed-rate financial instruments is estimated based on observable market prices. millions of dollars, except as indicated expected maturity date fixed rate maturity average interest rate floating rate maturity average interest rate year-end 2017 2018 $ % $ 25 1.94 % 2019 300 2.01 2020 300 2.65 775 2.31 2021 50 1.94 2022 2,000 4.30 remaining years 6,576 4.78 total $ 8,876 $ 1,150 fair value $ 9,746 $ 1,150 millions of dollars, except as indicated expected maturity date fixed rate maturity average interest rate floating rate maturity average interest rate year-end 2016 2017 $ 516 3.08 % $ 15 1.80 % 2018 518 2.39 12 0.80 2019 18 7.00 2020 816 2.76 12 0.80 2021 221 1.86 remaining years 7,926 4.72 total $ 9,794 $ 260 fair value $ 10,260 $ 260 for additional information about our use of derivative instruments, see note 15 derivatives and financial instruments , in the notes to consolidated financial statements. 68 table of contents index to financial statements cautionary statement for the purposes of the safe harbor provisions of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 this report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27a of the securities act of 1933 and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934. you can identify our forward-looking statements by the words anticipate, estimate, believe, budget, continue, could, intend, may, plan, potential, predict, seek, should, will, would, expect, objective, projection, forecast, goal, guidance, outlook, effort, target and similar expressions. we based the forward-looking statements on our current expectations, estimates and projections about us and the industries in which we operate in general. we caution you these statements are not guarantees of future performance as they involve assumptions that, while made in good faith, may prove to be incorrect, and involve risks and uncertainties we cannot predict. in addition, we based many of these forward-looking statements on assumptions about future events that may prove to be inaccurate. accordingly, our actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what we have expressed or forecast in the forward-looking statements. any differences could result from a variety of factors, including the following: fluctuations in ngl, crude oil, petroleum products and natural gas prices and refining, marketing and petrochemical margins. failure of new products and services to achieve market acceptance. unexpected changes in costs or technical requirements for constructing, modifying or operating our facilities or transporting our products. unexpected technological or commercial difficulties in manufacturing, refining or transporting our products, including chemicals products. lack of, or disruptions in, adequate and reliable transportation for our ngl, crude oil, natural gas and refined products. the level and success of drilling and quality of production volumes around dcp midstream's assets and its ability to connect supplies to its gathering and processing systems, residue gas and ngl infrastructure. inability to timely obtain or maintain permits, including those necessary for capital projects; comply with government regulations; or make capital expenditures required to maintain compliance. failure to complete definitive agreements and feasibility studies for, and to timely complete construction of, announced and future capital projects. potential disruption or interruption of our operations due to accidents, weather events, civil unrest, political events, terrorism or cyber attacks. international monetary conditions and exchange controls. substantial investment or reduced demand for products as a result of existing or future environmental rules and regulations. liability resulting from litigation or for remedial actions, including removal and reclamation obligations under environmental regulations. general domestic and international economic and political developments including: armed hostilities; expropriation of assets; changes in governmental policies relating to ngl, crude oil, natural gas or refined product pricing, regulation or taxation; and other political, economic or diplomatic developments. changes in tax, environmental and other laws and regulations (including alternative energy mandates) applicable to our business. limited access to capital or significantly higher cost of capital related to changes to our credit profile or illiquidity or uncertainty in the domestic or international financial markets. the operation, financing and distribution decisions of our joint ventures. domestic and foreign supplies of crude oil and other feedstocks. domestic and foreign supplies of petrochemicals and refined products, such as gasoline, diesel, aviation fuel and home heating oil. governmental policies relating to exports of crude oil and natural gas. overcapacity or undercapacity in the midstream, chemicals and refining industries. fluctuations in consumer demand for refined products. the factors generally described in item 1a. risk factors in this report. 69 table of contents index to financial statementsrisk factors you should carefully consider the following risk factors in addition to the other information included in this annual report on form 10-k. each of these risk factors could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition, as well as the value of an investment in our common stock. our operating results and future rate of growth are exposed to the effects of changing commodity prices and refining, marketing and petrochemical margins. our revenues, operating results and future rate of growth are highly dependent on a number of factors, including fixed and variable expenses (including the cost of crude oil, ngl, and other refining and petrochemical feedstocks) and the margin we can derive from selling refined petroleum, petrochemical and plastics products. the prices of feedstocks and our products fluctuate substantially. these prices depend on numerous factors beyond our control, including the global supply and demand for feedstocks and our products, which are subject to, among other things: changes in the global economy and the level of foreign and domestic production of crude oil, natural gas and ngl and refined petroleum, petrochemical and plastics products. availability of feedstocks and refined petroleum products and the infrastructure to transport them. local factors, including market conditions, the level of operations of other facilities in our markets, and the volume of products imported and exported. threatened or actual terrorist incidents, acts of war and other global political conditions. government regulations. weather conditions, hurricanes or other natural disasters. the price of crude oil influences prices for refined petroleum products. we do not produce crude oil and must purchase all of the crude oil we process. many crude oils available on the world market will not meet the quality restrictions for use in our refineries. others are not economical to use due to high transportation costs or for other reasons. the prices for crude oil and refined petroleum products can fluctuate differently based on global, regional and local market conditions, as well as by type and class of products, which can reduce refining margins and could have a significant impact on our refining, wholesale marketing and retail operations, revenues, operating income and cash flows. also, crude oil supply contracts generally have market-responsive pricing provisions. we normally purchase our refinery feedstocks weeks before manufacturing and selling the refined petroleum products. changes in prices that occur between when we purchase feedstocks and when we sell the refined petroleum products produced from these feedstocks could have a significant effect on our financial results. we also purchase refined petroleum products produced by others for sale to our customers. price changes that occur between when we purchase and sell these refined petroleum products also could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the price of feedstocks also influences prices for petrochemical and plastics products. although our chemicals segment transports and fractionates feedstocks to meet a portion of their demand and has certain long-term feedstock supply contracts with others, it is still subject to volatile feedstock prices. in addition, the petrochemicals industry is both cyclical and volatile. cyclicality occurs when periods of tight supply, resulting in increased prices and profit margins, are followed by periods of capacity expansion, resulting in oversupply and declining prices and profit margins. volatility occurs as a result of changes in supply and demand for products, changes in energy prices, and changes in various other economic conditions around the world. uncertainty and illiquidity in credit and capital markets can impair our ability to obtain credit and financing on acceptable terms and can adversely affect the financial strength of our business partners. our ability to obtain credit and capital depends in large measure on the state of the credit and capital markets, which is beyond our control. our ability to access credit and capital markets may be restricted at a time when we would like, or need, access to those markets, which could constrain our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. in addition, the cost and availability of debt and equity financing may be adversely impacted by unstable or illiquid market conditions. protracted uncertainty and illiquidity in these markets also could have an adverse impact on our lenders, commodity hedging counterparties, or our customers, preventing them from meeting their obligations to us. 19 table of contents index to financial statements from time to time, our cash needs may exceed our internally generated cash flow, and our business could be materially and adversely affected if we are unable to obtain necessary funds from financing activities. from time to time, we may need to supplement cash generated from operations with proceeds from financing activities. uncertainty and illiquidity in financial markets may materially impact the ability of the participating financial institutions to fund their commitments to us under our liquidity facilities. accordingly, we may not be able to obtain the full amount of the funds available under our liquidity facilities to satisfy our cash requirements, and our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial position. deterioration in our credit profile could increase our costs of borrowing money and limit our access to the capital markets and commercial credit, and could trigger co-venturer rights under joint venture arrangements. our or phillips 66 partners' credit ratings could be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, the circumstances warrant. if a rating agency were to downgrade our rating below investment grade, our or phillips 66 partners' borrowing costs would increase, and our funding sources could decrease. in addition, a failure by us to maintain an investment grade rating could affect our business relationships with suppliers and operating partners. for example, our agreement with chevron regarding cpchem permits chevron to buy our 50 percent interest in cpchem for fair market value if we experience a change in control or if both standard &amp; poor's financial services llc and moody's investors service, inc. lower our credit ratings below investment grade and the credit rating from either rating agency remains below investment grade for 365 days thereafter, with fair market value determined by agreement or by nationally recognized investment banks. as a result of these factors, a downgrade of credit ratings could have a materially adverse impact on our future operations and financial position. we expect to continue to incur substantial capital expenditures and operating costs as a result of our compliance with existing and future environmental laws and regulations. likewise, future environmental laws and regulations may impact or limit our current business plans and reduce demand for our products. our business is subject to numerous laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. these laws and regulations continue to increase in both number and complexity and affect our operations with respect to, among other things: the discharge of pollutants into the environment. emissions into the atmosphere (such as nitrogen oxides, sulfur dioxide and mercury emissions, and greenhouse gas emissions as they are, or may become, regulated). the quantity of renewable fuels that must be blended into motor fuels. the handling, use, storage, transportation, disposal and cleanup of hazardous materials and hazardous and nonhazardous wastes. the dismantlement and abandonment of our facilities and restoration of our properties at the end of their useful lives. we have incurred and will continue to incur substantial capital, operating and maintenance, and remediation expenditures as a result of these laws and regulations. to the extent these expenditures, as with all costs, are not ultimately reflected in the prices of our products and services, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in future periods could be materially adversely affected. the u.s. environmental protection agency (epa) has implemented a renewable fuel standard (rfs) pursuant to the energy policy act of 2005 and the energy independence and security act of 2007. the rfs program sets annual quotas for the quantity of renewable fuels (such as ethanol) that must be blended into motor fuels consumed in the united states. to provide certain flexibility in compliance options available to the industry, a renewable identification number (rin) is assigned to each gallon of renewable fuel produced in, or imported into, the united states. as a producer of petroleum-based motor fuels, we are obligated to blend renewable fuels into the products we produce at a rate that is at least commensurate to the epa's quota and, to the extent we do not, we must purchase rins in the open market to satisfy our obligation under the rfs program. to the extent the epa mandates a blending quantity of renewable fuel that exceeds the amount that is commercially feasible to blend into motor fuel (a situation commonly referred to as the blend wall ), our operations could be materially adversely impacted, up to and including a reduction in produced motor fuel. 20 table of contents index to financial statements the adoption of climate change legislation or regulation could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the refined petroleum products we produce. the u.s. government, including the epa, as well as several state and international governments, have either considered or adopted legislation or regulations in an effort to reduce greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions. these proposed or promulgated laws apply or could apply in states and/or countries where we have interests or may have interests in the future. in addition, various groups suggest that additional laws may be needed in an effort to address climate change, as illustrated by the paris agreement negotiated at the 2015 united nations conference on climate change, referred to as cop 21, which entered into force on november 4, 2016. we cannot predict the extent to which any such legislation or regulation will be enacted and, if so, what its provisions would be. to the extent we incur additional costs required to comply with the adoption of new laws and regulations that are not ultimately recovered in the prices of our products and services, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in future periods could be materially adversely affected. in addition, demand for the refined petroleum products we produce could be adversely affected. climate change may adversely affect our facilities and our ongoing operations. the potential physical effects of climate change on our operations are highly uncertain and depend upon the unique geographic and environmental factors present. examples of such effects include rising sea levels at our coastal facilities, changing storm patterns and intensities, and changing temperature levels. as many of our facilities are located near coastal areas, rising sea levels may disrupt our ability to operate those facilities or transport crude oil and refined petroleum products. extended periods of such disruption could have an adverse effect on our results of operation. we could also incur substantial costs to prevent or repair damage to these facilities. political and economic developments could affect our operations and materially reduce our profitability and cash flows. actions of federal, state, local and international governments through legislation or regulation, executive order, permit or other review of infrastructure or facility development, and commercial restrictions could delay projects, increase costs, limit development, or otherwise reduce our operating profitability both in the united states and abroad. any such actions may affect many aspects of our operations, including: requiring permits or other approvals that may impose unforeseen or unduly burdensome conditions or potentially cause delays in our operations. further limiting or prohibiting construction or other activities in environmentally sensitive or other areas. requiring increased capital costs to construct, maintain or upgrade equipment or facilities. restricting the locations where we may construct facilities or requiring the relocation of facilities. in addition, the u.s. government can prevent or restrict us from doing business in foreign countries and from doing business with entities affiliated with foreign governments, which can include state oil companies and u.s. subsidiaries of those companies. the office of foreign assets control (ofac) of the u.s. department of the treasury administers and enforces economic and trade sanctions based on u.s. foreign policy and national security matters. for example, sanctions are currently in effect against venezuela and certain entities affiliated with it. the effect of any such ofac sanctions could disrupt transactions with or operations involving entities affiliated with sanctioned countries, and could limit our ability to obtain optimum crude slates and other refinery feedstocks and effectively distribute refined petroleum products. other risks inherent in doing business internationally include global financial market turmoil; economic volatility and global economic slowdown; currency exchange rate fluctuations and inflationary pressures; import or export restrictions and changes in trade regulations; acts of terrorism, war, civil unrest and other political risks; difficulties in developing, staffing and managing foreign operations; and potentially adverse tax developments. if any of these events occur, our businesses and those of our joint ventures may be adversely affected. additionally, renewable fuels, alternative energy mandates and energy conservation efforts could reduce demand for refined petroleum products. tax incentives and other subsidies can make renewable fuels and alternative energy more competitive with refined petroleum products than they otherwise might be, which may reduce refined petroleum product margins and hinder the ability of refined petroleum products to compete with renewable fuels. 21 table of contents index to financial statements large capital projects can take many years to complete, and market conditions could deteriorate significantly between the project approval date and the project startup date, negatively impacting expected project returns. our basis for approving a large-scale capital project is the expectation that it will deliver an acceptable level of return on the capital invested. we base these forecasted project economics on our best estimate of future market conditions. most large-scale projects take several years to complete. during this multi-year period, market conditions can change from those we forecast, and these changes could be significant. accordingly, we may not be able to realize our expected returns from a large investment in a capital project, and this could negatively impact our results of operations, cash flows and our return on capital employed. plans we may have to expand existing assets or construct new assets, particularly in our midstream segment, are subject to risks associated with societal and political pressures and other forms of opposition to the future development, transportation and use of carbon-based fuels. such risks could adversely impact our ability to realize certain growth strategies. certain of our planned expenditures are based upon the assumption that societal sentiment will continue to enable, and existing regulations will remain intact to allow for, the future development, transportation and use of carbon-based fuels. a portion of our growth strategy is dependent on our ability to expand existing assets and to construct additional assets. policy decisions relating to the production, refining, transportation and marketing of carbon-based fuels are subject to political pressures and the influence and protests of environmental and other special interest groups. for example, our midstream segment's growth plans include the construction or expansion of pipelines, which can involve numerous regulatory, environmental, political, and legal uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control. our growth projects may not be completed on schedule or at the budgeted cost. in addition, our revenues may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project. delays or cost increases related to capital spending programs could negatively impact our results of operations, cash flows and our return on capital employed. our operations are subject to business interruptions and casualty losses. failure to manage risks associated with business interruptions could adversely impact our operations, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our operations are subject to business interruptions due to scheduled refinery turnarounds, unplanned maintenance or unplanned events such as explosions, fires, refinery or pipeline releases or other incidents, power outages, severe weather, labor disputes, or other natural or man-made disasters, such as acts of terrorism, including cyber-intrusion. the inability to operate one or more of our facilities due to any of these events could significantly impair our ability to manufacture our products. additionally, our manufacturing equipment is becoming increasingly dependent on our information technology systems. a disruption in our information technology systems due to a catastrophic event or security breach could interrupt or damage our operations. explosions, fires, refinery or pipeline releases or other incidents involving our assets or operations could result in serious personal injury or loss of human life, significant damage to property and equipment, environmental pollution, impairment of operations and substantial losses to us. for assets located near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers, industrial sites and other public gathering areas, the level of damage resulting from these risks could be greater. damages resulting from an incident involving any of our assets or operations may result in our being named as a defendant in one or more lawsuits asserting potentially substantial claims or in our being assessed potentially substantial fines by governmental authorities. should any of these risks materialize at any of our equity affiliates, it could have a material adverse effect on the business and financial condition of the equity affiliate and negatively impact their ability to make future distributions to us. 22 table of contents index to financial statements there are certain hazards and risks inherent in our operations that could adversely affect those operations and our financial results. the operation of refineries, power plants, fractionators, pipelines, terminals and vessels is inherently subject to the risks of spills, discharges or other inadvertent releases of petroleum or hazardous substances. if any of these events had previously occurred or occurs in the future in connection with any of our refineries, pipelines or refined petroleum products terminals, or in connection with any facilities that receive our wastes or by-products for treatment or disposal, other than events for which we are indemnified, we could be liable for all costs and penalties associated with their remediation under federal, state, local and international environmental laws or common law, and could be liable for property damage to third parties caused by contamination from releases and spills. we do not insure against all potential losses, and, therefore, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected by unexpected liabilities and increased costs. we maintain insurance coverage in amounts we believe to be prudent against many, but not all, potential liabilities arising from operating hazards. uninsured liabilities arising from operating hazards, including but not limited to, explosions, fires, refinery or pipeline releases or other incidents involving our assets or operations, could reduce the funds available to us for capital and investment spending and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our investments in joint ventures decrease our ability to manage risk. we conduct some of our operations, including parts of our midstream, refining and m&amp;s segments, and our entire chemicals segment, through joint ventures in which we share control with our joint venture participants. our joint venture participants may have economic, business or legal interests or goals that are inconsistent with ours or those of the joint venture, or our joint venture participants may be unable to meet their economic or other obligations, and we may be required to fulfill those obligations alone. failure by us, or an entity in which we have a joint venture interest, to adequately manage the risks associated with any acquisitions or joint ventures could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition or results of operations of our joint ventures and, in turn, our business and operations. we are subject to interruptions of supply and increased costs as a result of our reliance on third-party transportation of crude oil, ngl and refined petroleum products. we often utilize the services of third parties to transport crude oil, ngl and refined petroleum products to and from our facilities. in addition to our own operational risks discussed above, we could experience interruptions of supply or increases in costs to deliver refined petroleum products to market if the ability of the pipelines or vessels to transport crude oil or refined petroleum products is disrupted because of weather events, accidents, governmental regulations or third-party actions. a prolonged disruption of the ability of a pipeline or vessel to transport crude oil, ngl or refined petroleum products to or from one or more of our refineries or other facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. increased regulation of hydraulic fracturing could result in reductions or delays in u.s. production of crude oil and natural gas, which could adversely impact our results of operations. an increasing percentage of crude oil supplied to our refineries and the crude oil and gas production of our midstream segment's customers is being produced from unconventional oil shale reservoirs. these reservoirs require hydraulic fracturing completion processes to release the hydrocarbons from the rock so they can flow through casing to the surface. hydraulic fracturing involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into a formation to stimulate hydrocarbon production. the epa, as well as several state agencies, have commenced studies and/or convened hearings regarding the potential environmental impacts of hydraulic fracturing activities. at the same time, certain environmental groups have suggested that additional laws may be needed to more closely and uniformly regulate the hydraulic fracturing process, and legislation has been proposed to provide for such regulation. in addition, some communities have adopted measures to ban hydraulic fracturing in their communities. we cannot predict whether any such legislation will ever be enacted and, if so, what its provisions would be. any additional levels of regulation and permits required with the adoption of new laws and regulations at the federal or state level could result in our having to rely on higher priced crude oil for our refineries. this could lead to delays, increased operating costs and process prohibitions that could reduce 23 table of contents index to financial statements the volumes of natural gas that move through dcp midstream's gathering systems and could reduce supplies and increase costs of ngl feedstocks to cpchem's facilities. this could materially adversely affect our results of operations and the ability of dcp midstream and cpchem to make cash distributions to us. dcp midstream's success depends on its ability to obtain new sources of natural gas and ngl. any decrease in the volumes of natural gas dcp midstream gathers could adversely affect its business and operating results. dcp midstream's gathering and transportation pipeline systems are connected to or dependent on the level of production from natural gas wells, which naturally declines over time. as a result, its cash flows associated with these wells will also decline over time. in order to maintain or increase throughput levels on its gathering and transportation pipeline systems and ngl pipelines and the asset utilization rates at its natural gas processing plants, dcp midstream must continually obtain new supplies. the primary factors affecting dcp midstream's ability to obtain new supplies of natural gas and ngl, and to attract new customers to its assets, include the level of successful drilling activity near these assets, prices of, and the demand for, natural gas and crude oil, producers' desire and ability to obtain necessary permits in an efficient manner, natural gas field characteristics and production performance, surface access and infrastructure issues, and its ability to compete for volumes from successful new wells. if dcp midstream is not able to obtain new supplies of natural gas to replace the natural decline in volumes from existing wells or because of competition, throughput on its pipelines and the utilization rates of its treating and processing facilities would decline. this could have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows, and its ability to make cash distributions to us. competitors that produce their own supply of feedstocks, have more extensive retail outlets, or have greater financial resources may have a competitive advantage. the refining and marketing industry is highly competitive with respect to both feedstock supply and refined petroleum product markets. we compete with many companies for available supplies of crude oil and other feedstocks and for outlets for our refined petroleum products. we do not produce any of our crude oil feedstocks. some of our competitors, however, obtain a portion of their feedstocks from their own production and some have more extensive retail outlets than we have. competitors that have their own production or extensive retail outlets (and greater brand-name recognition) are at times able to offset losses from refining operations with profits from producing or retailing operations, and may be better positioned to withstand periods of depressed refining margins or feedstock shortages. some of our competitors also have materially greater financial and other resources than we have. such competitors have a greater ability to bear the economic risks inherent in all phases of our business. in addition, we compete with other industries that provide alternative means to satisfy the energy and fuel requirements of our industrial, commercial and individual customers. we may incur losses as a result of our forward contracts and derivative transactions. we currently use commodity derivative instruments, and we expect to use them in the future. if the instruments we utilize to hedge our exposure to various types of risk are not effective, we may incur losses. derivative transactions involve the risk that counterparties may be unable to satisfy their obligations to us. the risk of counterparty default is heightened in a poor economic environment. one of our subsidiaries acts as the general partner of a publicly traded master limited partnership, phillips 66 partners, which may involve a greater exposure to legal liability than our historic business operations. one of our subsidiaries acts as the general partner of phillips 66 partners, a publicly traded master limited partnership. our control of the general partner of phillips 66 partners may increase the possibility that we could be subject to claims of breach of fiduciary duties, including claims of conflicts of interest, related to phillips 66 partners. any liability resulting from such claims could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 24 table of contents index to financial statements security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer. in the ordinary course of our business, we collect sensitive data, including personally identifiable information of our customers and employees. despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure , or information technology and infrastructure of our third-party service providers (e.g., cloud-based service providers), may be vulnerable to attacks by malicious actors or breached due to human error, malfeasance or other disruptions. although we have experienced occasional, actual or attempted breaches of our cybersecurity, none of these breaches has had a material effect on our business, operations or reputation (or compromised any customer data). any such breaches could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of customer information, including the european union's general data protection regulation, disrupt the services we provide to customers, and damage our reputation, any of which could adversely affect our business. the level of returns on pension and postretirement plan assets and the actuarial assumptions used for valuation purposes could affect our earnings and cash flows in future periods. assumptions used in determining projected benefit obligations and the expected return on plan assets for our pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans are evaluated by us based on a variety of independent sources of market information and in consultation with outside actuaries. if we determine that changes are warranted in the assumptions used, such as the discount rate, expected long-term rate of return, or health care cost trend rate, our future pension and postretirement benefit expenses and funding requirements could increase. in addition, several factors could cause actual results to differ significantly from the actuarial assumptions that we use. funding obligations are determined based on the value of assets and liabilities on a specific date as required under relevant regulations. future pension funding requirements, and the timing of funding payments, could be affected by legislation enacted by governmental authorities. in connection with the separation, conocophillips has indemnified us for certain liabilities and we have agreed to indemnify conocophillips for certain liabilities. if we are required to act on these indemnities to conocophillips, we may need to use cash to meet those obligations and our financial results could be negatively impacted. the conocophillips indemnity may not be sufficient to insure us against the full amount of liabilities for which it has been allocated responsibility, and conocophillips may not be able to satisfy its indemnification obligations in the future. pursuant to the indemnification and release agreement and certain other agreements with conocophillips entered into in connection with the separation, conocophillips agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities, and we agreed to indemnify conocophillips for certain liabilities. indemnities that we may be required to provide conocophillips are not subject to any cap, may be significant and could negatively impact our business, particularly indemnities relating to our actions that could impact the tax-free nature of the distribution of phillips 66 stock. third parties could also seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities that conocophillips has agreed to retain. further, the indemnity from conocophillips may not be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, and conocophillips may not be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations. moreover, even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from conocophillips any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear these losses ourselves. each of these risks could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. we are subject to continuing contingent liabilities of conocophillips following the separation. notwithstanding the separation, there are several significant areas where the liabilities of conocophillips may become our obligations. for example, under the internal revenue code and the related rules and regulations, each corporation that was a member of the conocophillips consolidated u.s. federal income tax reporting group during any taxable period or portion of any taxable period ending on or before the effective time of the separation is jointly and severally liable for the u.s. federal income tax liability of the entire conocophillips consolidated tax reporting group for that taxable period. in connection with the separation, we entered into the tax sharing agreement with conocophillips that allocates the responsibility for prior period taxes of the conocophillips consolidated tax reporting group between us and conocophillips. conocophillips may be unable to pay any prior period taxes for which it is responsible, and we could be required to pay the entire amount of such taxes. other provisions of federal law establish similar liability for other matters, including laws governing tax-qualified pension plans as well as other contingent liabilities. 25 table of contents index to financial statements if the distribution in connection with the separation, together with certain related transactions, does not qualify as a transaction that is generally tax-free for u.s. federal income tax purposes, our stockholders and conocophillips could be subject to significant tax liability and, in certain circumstances, we could be required to indemnify conocophillips for material taxes pursuant to indemnification obligations under the tax sharing agreement. conocophillips received a private letter ruling from the internal revenue service (irs) substantially to the effect that, among other things, the distribution, together with certain related transactions, qualified as a transaction that is generally tax-free for u.s. federal income tax purposes under sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(d) of the internal revenue code. the private letter ruling and the tax opinion that conocophillips received relied on certain representations, assumptions and undertakings, including those relating to the past and future conduct of our business, and neither the private letter ruling nor the opinion would be valid if such representations, assumptions and undertakings were incorrect. moreover, the private letter ruling does not address all the issues that are relevant to determining whether the distribution qualified for tax-free treatment. notwithstanding the private letter ruling and the tax opinion, the irs could determine the distribution should be treated as a taxable transaction for u.s. federal income tax purposes if it determines any of the representations, assumptions or undertakings that were included in the request for the private letter ruling are false or have been violated or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion that are not covered by the irs ruling. if the irs were to determine that the distribution failed to qualify for tax-free treatment, in general, conocophillips would be subject to tax as if it had sold the phillips 66 common stock in a taxable sale for its fair market value, and conocophillips stockholders who received shares of phillips 66 common stock in the distribution would be subject to tax as if they had received a taxable distribution equal to the fair market value of such shares. under the tax sharing agreement, we would generally be required to indemnify conocophillips against any tax resulting from the distribution to the extent that such tax resulted from (i) any of our representations or undertakings being incorrect or violated, or (ii) other actions or failures to act by us. our indemnification obligations to conocophillips and its subsidiaries, officers and directors are not limited by any maximum amount. if we are required to indemnify conocophillips or such other persons under the circumstances set forth in the tax sharing agreement, we may be subject to substantial liabilities. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk financial instrument market risk we and certain of our subsidiaries hold and issue derivative contracts and financial instruments that expose our cash flows or earnings to changes in commodity prices, foreign currency exchange rates or interest rates. we may use financial- and commodity-based derivative contracts to manage the risks produced by changes in the prices of crude oil and related products, natural gas, ngl, and electric power; fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates; or to capture market opportunities. our use of derivative instruments is governed by an authority limitations document approved by our board of directors, that prohibits the use of highly leveraged derivatives or derivative instruments without sufficient market liquidity for comparable valuations. the authority limitations document also establishes value at risk (var) limits, and compliance with these limits is monitored daily. our chief executive officer and chief financial officer monitor risks resulting from foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices. commodity price risk we sell into and receive supply from the worldwide crude oil, refined petroleum product, natural gas, ngl, and electric power markets, exposing our revenues, purchases, cost of operating activities, and cash flows to fluctuations in the prices for these commodities. generally, our policy is to remain exposed to the market prices of commodities. consistent with this policy, our commercial organization uses derivative contracts to convert our exposure from fixed-price sales contracts, often specified in contracts with refined petroleum product customers, back to fluctuating market prices. conversely, our commercial organization also uses futures, forwards, swaps and options in various markets to accomplish the following objectives to optimize the value of our supply chain, and this may reduce our exposure to fluctuations in market prices: balance physical systems or to meet our refinery requirements and marketing demand. in addition to cash settlement prior to contract expiration, exchange-traded futures contracts may be settled by physical delivery of the commodity. manage the risk to our cash flows from price exposures on specific crude oil, refined petroleum product, natural gas, ngl, and electric power transactions. enable us to use the market knowledge gained from these activities to capture market opportunities such as moving physical commodities to more profitable locations, storing commodities to capture seasonal or time premiums, and blending commodities to capture quality upgrades. derivatives may be utilized to optimize these activities. we use a var model to estimate the loss in fair value that could potentially result on a single day from the effect of adverse changes in market conditions on the derivative financial instruments and derivative commodity instruments held or issued, including commodity purchase and sales contracts recorded on the balance sheet at december 31, 2018 , as derivative instruments. using the monte carlo simulation, a 95 percent confidence level and a one-day holding period, the var for those instruments issued or held for trading purposes at december 31, 2018 and 2017 , was immaterial to our cash flows and net income. the var for instruments held for purposes other than trading at december 31, 2018 and 2017 , was also immaterial to our cash flows and net income. 68 table of contents index to financial statements interest rate risk our use of fixed- or variable-rate debt directly exposes us to interest rate risk. fixed-rate debt, such as our senior notes, exposes us to changes in the fair value of our debt due to changes in market interest rates. fixed-rate debt also exposes us to the risk that we may need to refinance maturing debt with new debt at higher rates, or that we may be obligated to pay rates higher than the current market. variable-rate debt, such as our floating-rate notes or borrowings under our revolving credit facility, exposes us to short-term changes in market rates that impact our interest expense. the following tables provide information about our debt instruments that are sensitive to changes in u.s. interest rates. these tables present principal cash flows and related weighted-average interest rates by expected maturity dates. weighted-average variable rates are based on effective rates at the reporting date. the carrying amount of our floating-rate debt approximates its fair value. the fair value of the fixed-rate financial instruments is estimated based on observable market prices. millions of dollars, except as indicated expected maturity date fixed rate maturity average interest rate floating rate maturity average interest rate year-end 2018 2019 $ % $ 50 3.65 % 2020 300 2.65 525 3.21 2021 625 3.23 2022 2,000 4.30 2023 remaining years 7,576 4.69 total $ 9,876 $ 1,200 fair value $ 9,727 $ 1,200 millions of dollars, except as indicated expected maturity date fixed rate maturity average interest rate floating rate maturity average interest rate year-end 2017 2018 $ % $ 25 1.94 % 2019 300 2.01 2020 300 2.65 775 2.31 2021 50 1.94 2022 2,000 4.30 remaining years 6,576 4.78 total $ 8,876 $ 1,150 fair value $ 9,746 $ 1,150 for additional information about our use of derivative instruments, see note 15 derivatives and financial instruments , in the notes to consolidated financial statements. 69 table of contents index to financial statements cautionary statement for the purposes of the safe harbor provisions of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 this report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27a of the securities act of 1933 and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934. you can identify our forward-looking statements by the words anticipate, estimate, believe, budget, continue, could, intend, may, plan, potential, predict, seek, should, will, would, expect, objective, projection, forecast, goal, guidance, outlook, effort, target and similar expressions. we based the forward-looking statements on our current expectations, estimates and projections about us and the industries in which we operate in general. we caution you these statements are not guarantees of future performance as they involve assumptions that, while made in good faith, may prove to be incorrect, and involve risks and uncertainties we cannot predict. in addition, we based many of these forward-looking statements on assumptions about future events that may prove to be inaccurate. accordingly, our actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what we have expressed or forecast in the forward-looking statements. any differences could result from a variety of factors, including the following: fluctuations in ngl, crude oil, refined petroleum product and natural gas prices and refining, marketing and petrochemical margins. failure of new products and services to achieve market acceptance. unexpected changes in costs or technical requirements for constructing, modifying or operating our facilities or transporting our products. unexpected technological or commercial difficulties in manufacturing, refining or transporting our products, including chemical products. lack of, or disruptions in, adequate and reliable transportation for our ngl, crude oil, natural gas and refined petroleum products. the level and success of drilling and quality of production volumes around our midstream assets. our inability to timely obtain or maintain permits, including those necessary for capital projects. our inability to comply with government regulations or make capital expenditures required to maintain compliance. failure to complete definitive agreements and feasibility studies for, and to timely complete construction of, announced and future capital projects. potential disruption or interruption of our operations due to accidents, weather events, civil unrest, political events, terrorism or cyber attacks. international monetary conditions and exchange controls. substantial investment or reduced demand for products as a result of existing or future environmental rules and regulations. liability resulting from litigation or for remedial actions, including removal and reclamation obligations under environmental regulations. general domestic and international economic and political developments including: armed hostilities; expropriation of assets; changes in governmental policies relating to ngl, crude oil, natural gas or refined petroleum products pricing, regulation or taxation; and other political, economic or diplomatic developments. changes in tax, environmental and other laws and regulations (including alternative energy mandates) applicable to our business. limited access to capital or significantly higher cost of capital related to changes to our credit profile or illiquidity or uncertainty in the domestic or international financial markets. the operation, financing and distribution decisions of our joint ventures. domestic and foreign supplies of crude oil and other feedstocks. domestic and foreign supplies of petrochemicals and refined petroleum products, such as gasoline, diesel, aviation fuel and home heating oil. governmental policies relating to exports of crude oil and natural gas. overcapacity or undercapacity in the midstream, chemicals and refining industries. fluctuations in consumer demand for refined petroleum products. the factors generally described in item 1a. risk factors in this report. 70 table of contents index to financial statementsrisk factors you should carefully consider the following risk factors in addition to the other information included in this annual report on form 10-k. each of these risk factors could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition, as well as the value of an investment in our common stock. our operating results and future rate of growth are exposed to the effects of changing commodity prices and refining, marketing and petrochemical margins. our revenues, operating results and future rate of growth are highly dependent on a number of factors, including fixed and variable expenses (including the cost of crude oil, ngl, and other refining and petrochemical feedstocks) and the margin we can derive from selling refined petroleum, petrochemical and plastics products. the prices of feedstocks and our products fluctuate substantially. these prices depend on numerous factors beyond our control, including the global supply and demand for feedstocks and our products, which are subject to, among other things: changes in the global economy and the level of foreign and domestic production of crude oil, natural gas and ngl and refined petroleum, petrochemical and plastics products. availability of feedstocks and refined petroleum products and the infrastructure to transport them. local factors, including market conditions, the level of operations of other facilities in our markets, and the volume of products imported and exported. threatened or actual terrorist incidents, acts of war and other global political conditions, and public health issues and outbreaks. government regulations. weather conditions, hurricanes or other natural disasters. availability of alternative energy sources. the price of crude oil influences prices for refined petroleum products. we do not produce crude oil and must purchase all of the crude oil we process. many crude oils available on the world market will not meet the quality restrictions for use in our refineries. others are not economical to use due to high transportation costs or for other reasons. the prices for crude oil and refined petroleum products can fluctuate differently based on global, regional and local market conditions, as well as by type and class of products, which can reduce refining margins and could have a significant impact on our refining, wholesale marketing and retail operations, revenues, operating income and cash flows. also, crude oil supply contracts generally have market-responsive pricing provisions. we normally purchase our refinery feedstocks weeks before manufacturing and selling the refined petroleum products. changes in prices that occur between when we purchase feedstocks and when we sell the refined petroleum products produced from these feedstocks could have a significant effect on our financial results. we also purchase refined petroleum products produced by others for sale to our customers. price changes that occur between when we purchase and sell these refined petroleum products also could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the price of feedstocks also influences prices for petrochemical and plastics products. although our chemicals segment transports and fractionates feedstocks to meet a portion of their demand and has certain long-term feedstock supply contracts with others, it is still subject to volatile feedstock prices. in addition, the petrochemicals industry is both cyclical and volatile. cyclicality occurs when periods of tight supply, resulting in increased prices and profit margins, are followed by periods of capacity expansion, resulting in oversupply and declining prices and profit margins. volatility occurs as a result of changes in supply and demand for products, changes in energy prices, and changes in various other economic conditions around the world. 19 table of contents index to financial statements we expect to continue to incur substantial capital expenditures and operating costs as a result of our compliance with existing and future environmental laws and regulations. likewise, future environmental laws and regulations may impact or limit our current business plans and reduce demand for our products. our business is subject to numerous laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. these laws and regulations continue to increase in both number and complexity and affect our operations with respect to, among other things: the discharge of pollutants into the environment. emissions into the atmosphere, such as nitrogen oxides, sulfur dioxide and mercury emissions, and greenhouse gas emissions, as they are, or may become, regulated. the quantity of renewable fuels that must be blended into motor fuels. the handling, use, storage, transportation, disposal and cleanup of hazardous materials and hazardous and nonhazardous wastes. the dismantlement and abandonment of our facilities and restoration of our properties at the end of their useful lives. we have incurred and will continue to incur substantial capital, operating and maintenance, and remediation expenditures as a result of these laws and regulations. to the extent these expenditures, as with all costs, are not ultimately reflected in the prices of our products and services, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in future periods could be materially adversely affected. the u.s. environmental protection agency (epa) has implemented a renewable fuel standard (rfs) pursuant to the energy policy act of 2005 and the energy independence and security act of 2007. the rfs program sets annual quotas for the quantity of renewable fuels, such as ethanol, that must be blended into motor fuels consumed in the united states. to provide certain flexibility in compliance options available to the industry, a renewable identification number (rin) is assigned to each gallon of renewable fuel produced in, or imported into, the united states. as a producer of petroleum-based motor fuels, we are obligated to blend renewable fuels into the products we produce at a rate that is at least commensurate to the epa's quota and, to the extent we do not, we must purchase rins in the open market to satisfy our obligation under the rfs program. to the extent the epa mandates a blending quantity of renewable fuel that exceeds the amount that is commercially feasible to blend into motor fuel (a situation commonly referred to as the blend wall ), our operations could be materially adversely impacted, up to and including a reduction in produced motor fuel. the adoption of climate change legislation or regulation could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the refined petroleum products we produce. the u.s. government, including the epa, as well as several state and international governments, have either considered or adopted legislation or regulations in an effort to reduce greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions. these proposed or promulgated laws apply or could apply in states and/or countries where we have interests or may have interests in the future. in addition, various groups suggest that additional laws may be needed in an effort to address climate change, as illustrated by the paris agreement, which entered into force on november 4, 2016 and establishes a commitment by signatory parties to pursue domestic ghg emission reductions. although the united states submitted formal notification of its withdrawal from the paris agreement to the united nations in november 2019, a future presidential administration could reverse the withdrawal. we cannot predict the extent to which any such legislation or regulation will be enacted and, if so, what its provisions would be. to the extent we incur additional costs required to comply with the adoption of new laws and regulations that are not ultimately recovered in the prices of our products and services, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in future periods could be materially adversely affected. in addition, demand for the refined petroleum products we produce could be adversely affected. 20 table of contents index to financial statements climate change may adversely affect our and our joint ventures' facilities and ongoing operations. the potential physical effects of climate change on our operations are highly uncertain and depend upon the unique geographic and environmental factors present. we have systems in place to manage potential acute physical risks, but if any such events were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our assets and operations. examples of potential physical risks include floods, hurricane-force winds, wildfires and snowstorms, as well as rising sea levels at our coastal facilities. we and our joint ventures have incurred, and will continue to incur, costs to protect our assets from physical risks and to employ processes, to the extent available, to mitigate such risks. many of our facilities, as well as facilities of our joint ventures, are located near coastal areas. as a result, extreme weather and rising sea levels may disrupt our or our joint ventures' ability to operate those facilities or transport crude oil and refined petroleum products. extended periods of such disruption could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. we could also incur substantial costs to prevent or repair damage to these facilities. finally, depending on the severity and duration of any extreme weather events or climate conditions, we or our joint ventures could be required to modify operations and incur costs that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. political and economic developments could affect our operations and materially reduce our profitability and cash flows. actions of federal, state, local and international governments through legislation or regulation, executive order, permit or other review of infrastructure or facility development, and commercial restrictions could delay projects, increase costs, limit development, or otherwise reduce our operating profitability both in the united states and abroad. any such actions may affect many aspects of our operations, including: requiring permits or other approvals that may impose unforeseen or unduly burdensome conditions or potentially cause delays in our operations. further limiting or prohibiting construction or other activities in environmentally sensitive or other areas. requiring increased capital costs to construct, maintain or upgrade equipment or facilities. restricting the locations where we may construct facilities or requiring the relocation of facilities. in addition, the u.s. government can prevent or restrict us from doing business in foreign countries and from doing business with entities affiliated with foreign governments, which can include state oil companies and u.s. subsidiaries of those companies. the office of foreign assets control (ofac) of the u.s. department of the treasury administers and enforces economic and trade sanctions based on u.s. foreign policy and national security matters. for example, sanctions are currently in effect against venezuela and certain entities affiliated with it. the effect of any such ofac sanctions could disrupt transactions with or operations involving entities affiliated with sanctioned countries, and could limit our ability to obtain optimum crude slates and other refinery feedstocks and effectively distribute refined petroleum products. other risks inherent in doing business internationally include global financial market turmoil; economic volatility and global economic slowdown; currency exchange rate fluctuations and inflationary pressures; import or export restrictions and changes in trade regulations; acts of terrorism, war, civil unrest and other political risks; difficulties in developing, staffing and managing foreign operations; and potentially adverse tax developments. if any of these events occur, our businesses and those of our joint ventures may be adversely affected. additionally, renewable fuels, alternative energy mandates and energy conservation efforts could reduce demand for refined petroleum products. tax incentives and other subsidies can make renewable fuels and alternative energy more competitive with refined petroleum products than they otherwise might be, which may reduce refined petroleum product margins and hinder the ability of refined petroleum products to compete with renewable fuels. 21 table of contents index to financial statements large capital projects can take many years to complete, and market conditions could deteriorate significantly between the project approval date and the project startup date, negatively impacting expected project returns. our basis for approving a large-scale capital project is the expectation that it will deliver an acceptable level of return on the capital invested. we base these forecasted project economics on our best estimate of future market conditions. most large-scale projects take several years to complete. during this multiyear period, market conditions can change from those we forecast, and these changes could be significant. accordingly, we may not be able to realize our expected returns from a large investment in a capital project, and this could negatively impact our results of operations, cash flows and our return on capital employed. plans we may have to expand existing assets or construct new assets, particularly in our midstream segment, are subject to risks associated with societal and political pressures and other forms of opposition to the future development, transportation and use of carbon-based fuels. such risks could adversely impact our ability to realize certain growth strategies. certain of our planned expenditures are based upon the assumption that societal sentiment will continue to enable, and existing regulations will remain intact to allow for, the future development, transportation and use of carbon-based fuels. a portion of our growth strategy is dependent on our ability to expand existing assets and to construct additional assets. policy decisions relating to the production, refining, transportation and marketing of carbon-based fuels are subject to political pressures and the influence and protests of environmental and other special interest groups. for example, our midstream segment's growth plans include the construction or expansion of pipelines, which can involve numerous regulatory, environmental, political, and legal uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control. our growth projects may not be completed on schedule or at the budgeted cost. in addition, our revenues may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project. delays or cost increases related to capital spending programs could negatively impact our results of operations, cash flows and our return on capital employed. our operations are subject to business interruptions and casualty losses. failure to manage risks associated with business interruptions could adversely impact our operations, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our operations are subject to business interruptions due to scheduled refinery turnarounds, unplanned maintenance or unplanned events such as explosions, fires, refinery or pipeline releases or other incidents, power outages, severe weather, labor disputes, or other natural or man-made disasters, such as acts of terrorism, including cyber intrusion. the inability to operate one or more of our facilities due to any of these events could significantly impair our ability to manufacture our products. additionally, our manufacturing equipment is becoming increasingly dependent on our information technology systems. a disruption in our information technology systems due to a catastrophic event or security breach could interrupt or damage our operations. explosions, fires, refinery or pipeline releases or other incidents involving our assets or operations could result in serious personal injury or loss of human life, significant damage to property and equipment, environmental pollution, impairment of operations and substantial losses to us. for assets located near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers, industrial sites and other public gathering areas, the level of damage resulting from these risks could be greater. damages resulting from an incident involving any of our assets or operations may result in our being named as a defendant in one or more lawsuits asserting potentially substantial claims or in our being assessed potentially substantial fines by governmental authorities. should any of these risks materialize at any of our equity affiliates, it could have a material adverse effect on the business and financial condition of the equity affiliate and negatively impact their ability to make future distributions to us. 22 table of contents index to financial statements there are certain hazards and risks inherent in our operations that could adversely affect those operations and our financial results. the operation of refineries, power plants, fractionators, pipelines, terminals and vessels is inherently subject to the risks of spills, discharges or other inadvertent releases of petroleum or hazardous substances. if any of these events had previously occurred or occurs in the future in connection with any of our refineries, pipelines or refined petroleum products terminals, or in connection with any facilities that receive our wastes or byproducts for treatment or disposal, other than events for which we are indemnified, we could be liable for all costs and penalties associated with their remediation under federal, state, local and international environmental laws or common law, and could be liable for property damage to third parties caused by contamination from releases and spills. we do not insure against all potential losses, and, therefore, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected by unexpected liabilities and increased costs. we maintain insurance coverage in amounts we believe to be prudent against many, but not all, potential liabilities arising from operating hazards. uninsured liabilities arising from operating hazards, including but not limited to, explosions, fires, refinery or pipeline releases or other incidents involving our assets or operations, could reduce the funds available to us for capital and investment spending and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our investments in joint ventures decrease our ability to manage risk. we conduct some of our operations, including parts of our midstream, refining and m&amp;s segments, and our entire chemicals segment, through joint ventures in which we share control with our joint venture participants. our joint venture participants may have economic, business or legal interests or goals that are inconsistent with ours or those of the joint venture, or our joint venture participants may be unable to meet their economic or other obligations, and we may be required to fulfill those obligations alone. failure by us, or an entity in which we have a joint venture interest, to adequately manage the risks associated with any acquisitions or joint ventures could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition or results of operations of our joint ventures and, in turn, our business and operations. we are subject to interruptions of supply and increased costs as a result of our reliance on third-party transportation of crude oil, ngl and refined petroleum products. we often utilize the services of third parties to transport crude oil, ngl and refined petroleum products to and from our facilities. in addition to our own operational risks discussed above, we could experience interruptions of supply or increases in costs to deliver refined petroleum products to market if the ability of the pipelines or vessels to transport crude oil or refined petroleum products is disrupted because of weather events, accidents, governmental regulations or third-party actions. a prolonged disruption of the ability of a pipeline or vessel to transport crude oil, ngl or refined petroleum products to or from one or more of our refineries or other facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 23 table of contents index to financial statements increased regulation of hydraulic fracturing could result in reductions or delays in u.s. production of crude oil and natural gas, which could adversely impact our results of operations. an increasing percentage of crude oil supplied to our refineries and the crude oil and gas production of our midstream segment's customers is being produced from unconventional oil shale reservoirs. these reservoirs require hydraulic fracturing completion processes to release the hydrocarbons from the rock so they can flow through casing to the surface. hydraulic fracturing involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into a formation to stimulate hydrocarbon production. the epa, as well as several state agencies, have commenced studies and/or convened hearings regarding the potential environmental impacts of hydraulic fracturing activities. at the same time, certain environmental groups have suggested that additional laws may be needed to more closely and uniformly regulate the hydraulic fracturing process, and legislation has been proposed to provide for such regulation. in addition, some communities have adopted measures to ban hydraulic fracturing in their communities. we cannot predict whether any such legislation will ever be enacted and, if so, what its provisions would be. any additional levels of regulation and permits required with the adoption of new laws and regulations at the federal or state level could result in our having to rely on higher priced crude oil for our refineries. this could lead to delays, increased operating costs and process prohibitions that could reduce the volumes of natural gas that move through dcp midstream's gathering systems and could reduce supplies and increase costs of ngl feedstocks to cpchem's facilities. this could materially adversely affect our results of operations and the ability of dcp midstream and cpchem to make cash distributions to us. dcp midstream's success depends on its ability to obtain new sources of natural gas and ngl. any decrease in the volumes of natural gas dcp midstream gathers could adversely affect its business and operating results. dcp midstream's gathering and transportation pipeline systems are connected to or dependent on the level of production from natural gas wells, which naturally declines over time. as a result, its cash flows associated with these wells will also decline over time. in order to maintain or increase throughput levels on its gathering and transportation pipeline systems and ngl pipelines and the asset utilization rates at its natural gas processing plants, dcp midstream must continually obtain new supplies. the primary factors affecting dcp midstream's ability to obtain new supplies of natural gas and ngl, and to attract new customers to its assets, include the level of successful drilling activity near these assets, prices of, and the demand for, natural gas and crude oil, producers' desire and ability to obtain necessary permits in an efficient manner, natural gas field characteristics and production performance, surface access and infrastructure issues, and its ability to compete for volumes from successful new wells. if dcp midstream is not able to obtain new supplies of natural gas to replace the natural decline in volumes from existing wells or because of competition, throughput on its pipelines and the utilization rates of its treating and processing facilities would decline. this could have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows, and its ability to make cash distributions to us. competitors that produce their own supply of feedstocks, have more extensive retail outlets, or have greater financial resources may have a competitive advantage. the refining and marketing industry is highly competitive with respect to both feedstock supply and refined petroleum product markets. we compete with many companies for available supplies of crude oil and other feedstocks and for outlets for our refined petroleum products. we do not produce any of our crude oil feedstocks. some of our competitors, however, obtain a portion of their feedstocks from their own production and some have more extensive retail outlets than we have. competitors that have their own production or extensive retail outlets (and greater brand-name recognition) are at times able to offset losses from refining operations with profits from producing or retailing operations, and may be better positioned to withstand periods of depressed refining margins or feedstock shortages. some of our competitors also have materially greater financial and other resources than we have. such competitors have a greater ability to bear the economic risks inherent in all phases of our business. in addition, we compete with other industries that provide alternative means to satisfy the energy and fuel requirements of our industrial, commercial and individual customers. 24 table of contents index to financial statements we may incur losses as a result of our forward contracts and derivative transactions. we currently use commodity derivative instruments, and we expect to use them in the future. if the instruments we utilize to hedge our exposure to various types of risk are not effective, we may incur losses. derivative transactions involve the risk that counterparties may be unable to satisfy their obligations to us. the risk of counterparty default is heightened in a poor economic environment. one of our subsidiaries acts as the general partner of a publicly traded master limited partnership, phillips 66 partners, which may involve a greater exposure to legal liability than our historic business operations. one of our subsidiaries acts as the general partner of phillips 66 partners, a publicly traded master limited partnership. our control of the general partner of phillips 66 partners may increase the possibility that we could be subject to claims of breach of fiduciary duties, including claims of conflicts of interest, related to phillips 66 partners. any liability resulting from such claims could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer. in the ordinary course of our business, we collect sensitive data, including personally identifiable information of our customers and employees. despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure , or information technology and infrastructure of our third-party service providers (e.g., cloud-based service providers), may be vulnerable to attacks by malicious actors or breached due to human error, malfeasance or other disruptions. although we have experienced occasional, actual or attempted breaches of our cybersecurity, none of these breaches has had a material effect on our business, operations or reputation (or compromised any customer data). any such breaches could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of customer information, including the european union's general data protection regulation, disrupt the services we provide to customers, and damage our reputation, any of which could adversely affect our business. uncertainty and illiquidity in credit and capital markets can impair our ability to obtain credit and financing on acceptable terms and can adversely affect the financial strength of our business partners. our ability to obtain credit and capital depends in large measure on the state of the credit and capital markets, which is beyond our control. our ability to access credit and capital markets may be restricted at a time when we would like, or need, access to those markets, which could constrain our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. in addition, the cost and availability of debt and equity financing may be adversely impacted by unstable or illiquid market conditions. protracted uncertainty and illiquidity in these markets also could have an adverse impact on our lenders, commodity transaction counterparties, or our customers, preventing them from meeting their obligations to us. from time to time, our cash needs may exceed our internally generated cash flow, and our business could be materially and adversely affected if we are unable to obtain necessary funds from financing activities. from time to time, we may need to supplement cash generated from operations with proceeds from financing activities. uncertainty and illiquidity in financial markets may materially impact the ability of the participating financial institutions to fund their commitments to us under our liquidity facilities that are supported by a broad syndicate of financial institutions. accordingly, we may not be able to obtain the full amount of the funds available under our liquidity facilities to satisfy our cash requirements, and our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial position. 25 table of contents index to financial statements deterioration in our credit profile could increase our costs of borrowing money and limit our access to the capital markets and commercial credit, and could trigger co-venturer rights under joint venture arrangements. our or phillips 66 partners' credit ratings could be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, the circumstances warrant. if a rating agency were to downgrade our rating below investment grade, our or phillips 66 partners' borrowing costs would increase, and our funding sources could decrease. in addition, a failure by us to maintain an investment grade rating could affect our business relationships with suppliers and operating partners. for example, our agreement with chevron regarding cpchem permits chevron to buy our 50% interest in cpchem for fair market value if we experience a change in control or if both standard &amp; poor's financial services llc and moody's investors service, inc. lower our credit ratings below investment grade and the credit rating from either rating agency remains below investment grade for 365 days thereafter, with fair market value determined by agreement or by nationally recognized investment banks. as a result of these factors, a downgrade of credit ratings could have a materially adverse impact on our future operations and financial position. the level of returns on pension and postretirement plan assets and the actuarial assumptions used for valuation purposes could affect our earnings and cash flows in future periods. assumptions used in determining projected benefit obligations and the expected return on plan assets for our pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans are evaluated by us based on a variety of independent sources of market information and in consultation with outside actuaries. if we determine that changes are warranted in the assumptions used, such as the discount rate, expected long-term rate of return, or health care cost trend rate, our future pension and postretirement benefit expenses and funding requirements could increase. in addition, several factors could cause actual results to differ significantly from the actuarial assumptions that we use. funding obligations are determined based on the value of assets and liabilities on a specific date as required under relevant regulations. future pension funding requirements, and the timing of funding payments, could be affected by legislation enacted by governmental authorities. we are subject to continuing contingent liabilities of conocophillips following the separation relating to taxes and other matters. if we become obligated, we may need to use cash to meet these obligations and our financial results could be negatively impacted. further, conocophillips has indemnified us for certain matters, but may not be able to satisfy its obligations to us in the future. notwithstanding the separation, there are several significant areas where the liabilities of conocophillips may become our obligations. for example, under the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended (the code) and the related rules and regulations, each corporation that was a member of the conocophillips consolidated u.s. federal income tax reporting group during any taxable period or portion of any taxable period ending on or before the effective time of the separation is jointly and severally liable for the u.s. federal income tax liability of the entire conocophillips consolidated tax reporting group for that taxable period. in connection with the separation, we entered into the tax sharing agreement with conocophillips that allocates the responsibility for prior period taxes of the conocophillips consolidated tax reporting group between us and conocophillips. conocophillips may be unable to pay any prior period taxes for which it is responsible, and we could be required to pay the entire amount of such taxes. other provisions of federal law establish similar liability for other matters, including laws governing tax-qualified pension plans as well as other contingent liabilities. also pursuant to the tax sharing agreement, we agreed to be responsible for, and indemnify conocophillips with respect to, all taxes arising as a result of the separation and certain related transactions failing to qualify under sections 368(a) and 355 of the code for u.s. federal income tax purposes to the extent such tax liability arises as a result of any breach of any representation, warranty, covenant or other obligation by us or certain affiliates made in connection with the issuance of the private letter ruling relating to the separation or in the tax sharing agreement. our indemnification obligations to conocophillips and its subsidiaries, officers and directors are not limited by any maximum amount. if we are required to indemnify conocophillips or such other persons under the circumstances set forth in the tax sharing agreement, we may be subject to substantial liabilities. 26 table of contents index to financial statements pursuant to an indemnification and release agreement and certain other agreements with conocophillips entered into in connection with the separation, conocophillips agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities, and we agreed to indemnify conocophillips for certain liabilities. indemnities that we may be required to provide conocophillips are not subject to any cap, may be significant and could negatively impact our business, particularly indemnities relating to our actions that could impact the tax-free nature of the distribution of phillips 66 stock. third parties could also seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities that conocophillips has agreed to retain. further, the indemnity from conocophillips may not be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, and conocophillips may not be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations. moreover, even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from conocophillips any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear these losses ourselves. each of these risks could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk financial instrument market risk we and certain of our subsidiaries are exposed to market risks produced by changes in the prices of crude oil, refined petroleum products, natural gas, ngl and electric power, as well as fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. we and certain of our subsidiaries may hold and use derivative contracts to manage these risks. commodity price risk generally, our policy is to remain exposed to the market prices of commodities. consistent with this policy, we use derivative contracts to convert our exposure from fixed-price sales or purchase contracts, often specified in contracts with refined petroleum product customers, back to floating market prices. we also use futures, forwards, swaps and options in various markets to accomplish the following objectives: balance physical systems or to meet our refinery requirements and market demand. in addition to cash settlement prior to contract expiration, exchange-traded futures contracts may be settled by physical delivery of the underlying commodity. enable us to use the market knowledge gained from our physical commodity market activities to capture market opportunities, such as moving physical commodities to more profitable locations, storing commodities to capture seasonal or time premiums, and blending commodities to capture quality upgrades. derivatives may be utilized to optimize these activities. manage the risk to our cash flows from price exposures on specific crude oil, refined petroleum product, natural gas and ngl transactions. these objectives optimize the value of our supply chain and may reduce our exposure to fluctuations in market prices. our use of derivative instruments is governed by an authority limitations document approved by our board of directors, which prohibits the use of highly leveraged derivatives or derivative instruments without sufficient market liquidity for comparable valuations and establishes value at risk (var) limits. compliance with these limits is monitored daily by our global risk group. we use a var model to estimate the loss in fair value that could potentially result on a single day from the effect of adverse changes in market conditions on the derivative commodity instruments held or issued. using monte carlo simulation, a 95% confidence level and a one-day holding period, the var for derivative commodity instruments issued or held at december 31, 2019 and 2018 , was immaterial to our cash flows and net income. 70 table of contents index to financial statements interest rate risk our use of fixed- or variable-rate debt directly exposes us to interest rate risk. fixed-rate debt, such as our senior notes, exposes us to changes in the fair value of our debt due to changes in market interest rates. fixed-rate debt also exposes us to the risk that we may need to refinance maturing debt with new debt at higher rates, or that we may be obligated to pay rates higher than the current market. variable-rate debt, such as our floating-rate notes or borrowings under our revolving credit facility, exposes us to short-term changes in market rates that impact our interest expense. the following tables provide information about our debt instruments that are sensitive to changes in u.s. interest rates. these tables present principal cash flows and related weighted-average interest rates by expected maturity dates. weighted-average variable rates are based on effective rates at each reporting date. the carrying amount of our floating-rate debt approximates its fair value. the fair value of the fixed-rate financial instruments is estimated based on observable market prices. millions of dollars, except as indicated expected maturity date fixed rate maturity average interest rate floating rate maturity average interest rate year-end 2019 2020 $ % $ 525 2.69 % 2021 550 2.46 2022 2,000 4.30 2023 2024 300 2.45 remaining years 8,176 4.57 25 2.39 total $ 10,476 $ 1,100 fair value $ 11,813 $ 1,100 millions of dollars, except as indicated expected maturity date fixed rate maturity average interest rate floating rate maturity average interest rate year-end 2018 2019 $ % $ 50 3.65 % 2020 300 2.65 525 3.21 2021 625 3.23 2022 2,000 4.30 2023 remaining years 7,576 4.69 total $ 9,876 $ 1,200 fair value $ 9,727 $ 1,200 our chief executive officer and chief financial officer monitor risks resulting from commodity prices, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. for additional information about our use of derivative instruments, see note 15 derivatives and financial instruments , in the notes to consolidated financial statements. 71 table of contents index to financial statements cautionary statement for the purposes of the safe harbor provisions of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 this report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27a of the securities act of 1933 and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934. you can identify our forward-looking statements by the words anticipate, estimate, believe, budget, continue, could, intend, may, plan, potential, predict, seek, should, will, would, expect, objective, projection, forecast, goal, guidance, outlook, effort, target and similar expressions. we based the forward-looking statements on our current expectations, estimates and projections about us and the industries in which we operate in general. we caution you these statements are not guarantees of future performance as they involve assumptions that, while made in good faith, may prove to be incorrect, and involve risks and uncertainties we cannot predict. in addition, we based many of these forward-looking statements on assumptions about future events that may prove to be inaccurate. accordingly, our actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what we have expressed or forecast in the forward-looking statements. any differences could result from a variety of factors, including the following: fluctuations in ngl, crude oil, refined petroleum product and natural gas prices and refining, marketing and petrochemical margins. failure of new products and services to achieve market acceptance. unexpected changes in costs or technical requirements for constructing, modifying or operating our facilities or transporting our products. unexpected technological or commercial difficulties in manufacturing, refining or transporting our products, including chemical products. lack of, or disruptions in, adequate and reliable transportation for our ngl, crude oil, natural gas and refined petroleum products. the level and success of drilling and quality of production volumes around our midstream assets. our inability to timely obtain or maintain permits, including those necessary for capital projects. our inability to comply with government regulations or make capital expenditures required to maintain compliance. failure to complete definitive agreements and feasibility studies for, and to complete construction of, announced and future capital projects on time and within budget. potential disruption or interruption of our operations due to accidents, weather events, civil unrest, political events, terrorism or cyber attacks. international monetary conditions and exchange controls. substantial investment or reduced demand for products as a result of existing or future environmental rules and regulations. liability resulting from litigation or for remedial actions, including removal and reclamation obligations under environmental regulations. general domestic and international economic and political developments including: armed hostilities; expropriation of assets; changes in governmental policies relating to ngl, crude oil, natural gas or refined petroleum products pricing, regulation or taxation; and other political, economic or diplomatic developments, including those caused by public health issues and outbreaks. changes in tax, environmental and other laws and regulations (including alternative energy mandates) applicable to our business. limited access to capital or significantly higher cost of capital related to changes to our credit profile or illiquidity or uncertainty in the domestic or international financial markets. the operation, financing and distribution decisions of our joint ventures. domestic and foreign supplies of crude oil and other feedstocks. domestic and foreign supplies of petrochemicals and refined petroleum products, such as gasoline, diesel, aviation fuel and home heating oil. governmental policies relating to exports of crude oil and natural gas. overcapacity or undercapacity in the midstream, chemicals and refining industries. fluctuations in consumer demand for refined petroleum products. the factors generally described in item 1a. risk factors in this report. 72 table of contents index to financial statements