risk factors discussion of our business and operations included in this annual report on form 10-k should be read together with the risk factors set forth below. they describe various risks and uncertainties to which we are, or may become, subject. these risks and uncertainties, together with other factors described elsewhere in this report, have the potential to affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, strategies, or prospects in a material and adverse manner. downward changes in general economic, real estate construction, or other business conditions could adversely affect our business or our financial results. the residential homebuilding industry is sensitive to changes in economic conditions and other factors, such as the level of employment, consumer confidence, consumer income, availability of financing, and interest rate levels. adverse changes in any of these conditions generally, or in the markets where we operate, could decrease demand and pricing for new homes in these areas or result in customer cancellations of pending contracts, which could adversely affect the number of home deliveries we make or reduce the prices we can charge for homes, either of which could result in a decrease in our revenues and earnings and would adversely affect our financial condition. the homebuilding industry is currently experiencing an economic down cycle, which has had an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. prior to 2006, land and home prices rose significantly in many of our markets. since early 2006, the u.s. housing market has been unfavorably impacted by severe weakness in new home sales attributable to, among other factors, weak consumer confidence, tightened mortgage standards, significant foreclosure activity, a more challenging appraisal environment, higher than normal unemployment levels, and significant uncertainty in the global economy. these conditions have contributed to sharply weakened demand for new homes and heightened pricing pressures on new and existing home sales. as a result of these factors, we have experienced significant decreases in our revenues and profitability. we have also incurred substantial impairments of our land inventory and certain other assets. we cannot predict the duration or the severity of the current market conditions, nor provide any assurances that the adjustments we have made in our operating strategy to address these conditions will be successful. if the market value of our land and homes drops significantly, our profits could decrease. the market value of land, building lots and housing inventories can fluctuate significantly as a result of changing market conditions and the measures we employ to manage inventory risk may not be adequate to insulate our operations from a severe drop in inventory values. we acquire land for expansion into new markets and for replacement of land inventory and expansion within our current markets. if housing demand decreases below what we anticipated when we acquired our inventory, we may not be able to make profits similar to what we have made in the past, we may experience less than anticipated profits, and/or we may not be able to recover our costs when we sell and build homes. when market conditions are such that land values are not appreciating, option arrangements previously entered into may become less desirable, at which time we may elect to forego deposits and pre-acquisition costs and terminate the agreement. in the face of adverse market conditions, we may have substantial inventory carrying costs, we may have to write down our inventory to its fair value, and/or we may have to sell land or homes at a loss. as a result of the changing market conditions in the homebuilding industry that have occurred since early 2006, we incurred significant land-related charges resulting from the write-off of deposits and pre-acquisition costs related to land transactions we elected not to pursue, net realizable valuation adjustments related to land positions sold or held for sale, impairments on land assets related to communities under development or to be developed in the future, impairments of our investments in unconsolidated joint ventures, and impairments of our recorded goodwill. it is reasonably possible that the estimated cash flows from our projects may change and could result in a future need to record additional valuation adjustments. additionally, if conditions in the homebuilding industry or our local markets worsen in the future, if the current difficult market conditions extend beyond our expectations, or if our strategy related to certain communities changes, we may be required to evaluate our assets for additional impairments or write-downs, which could result in additional charges that might be significant. 10 our success depends on our ability to acquire land suitable for residential homebuilding at reasonable prices, in accordance with our land investment criteria. the homebuilding industry is highly competitive for suitable land. the availability of finished and partially finished developed lots and undeveloped land for purchase that meet our internal criteria depends on a number of factors outside our control, including land availability in general, competition with other homebuilders and land buyers for desirable property, inflation in land prices, zoning, allowable housing density, and other regulatory requirements. should suitable lots or land become less available, the number of homes we may be able to build and sell could be reduced, and the cost of land could be increased, perhaps substantially, which could adversely impact our results of operations. our long-term ability to build homes depends on our acquiring land suitable for residential building at reasonable prices in locations where we want to build. in the past, we experienced significant competition for suitable land as a result of land constraints in many of our markets. as competition for suitable land increases, and as available land is developed, the cost of acquiring suitable remaining land could rise, and the availability of suitable land at acceptable prices may decline. any land shortages or any decrease in the supply of suitable land at reasonable prices could limit our ability to develop new communities or result in increased land costs. we may not be able to pass through to our customers any increased land costs, which could adversely impact our revenues, earnings, and margins. we are subject to claims related to mortgage loans we sold in the secondary mortgage market that may be significant. our mortgage operations may be responsible for losses associated with mortgage loans originated and sold to investors in the event of errors or omissions relating to certain representations and warranties that the loans sold meet certain requirements, including representations as to underwriting standards, the type of collateral, the existence of primary mortgage insurance, and the validity of certain borrower representations in connection with the loan. we may also be required to indemnify underwriters that purchased and securitized loans originated by a former subsidiary of centex for losses incurred by investors in those securitized loans based on similar breaches of representations and warranties. to date, the significant majority of these losses relate to loans originated in 2006 and 2007, during which period inherently riskier loan products became more common in the origination market. in 2006 and 2007, we originated $39.5 billion of loans, excluding loans originated by centex's former subprime loan business sold by centex in 2006. in addition, we entered into an agreement in conjunction with the wind down of centex's mortgage operations, which ceased loan origination activities in december 2009, that provides a guaranty for one major investor of loans originated by centex. this guaranty provides that we will honor the potential repurchase obligations of centex's mortgage operations related to breaches of similar representations in the origination of a certain pool of loans. the resolution of claims related to alleged breaches of these representations and warranties and repurchase claims could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations, and could exceed existing estimates and accruals. the repurchase liability we recorded is estimated based on several factors, including the level of current unresolved repurchase requests, the volume of estimated probable future repurchase requests, our ability to cure the defects identified in the repurchase requests, and the severity of the estimated loss upon repurchase. the factors referred to above are subject to change in light of market developments, the economic environment, and other circumstances, some of which are beyond our control. accordingly, there can be no assurance that such reserves will not need to be increased in the future. 11 future increases in interest rates, reductions in mortgage availability, or increases in the effective costs of owning a home could prevent potential customers from buying our homes and adversely affect our business and financial results. a large majority of our customers finance their home purchases through mortgage loans, many through our mortgage bank. interest rates have been near historical lows for several years, which has made new homes more affordable. increases in interest rates or decreases in the availability of mortgage financing, however, could reduce the market for new homes. potential homebuyers may be less willing or able to pay the increased monthly costs or to obtain mortgage financing that exposes them to interest rate changes. lenders may increase the qualifications needed for mortgages or adjust their terms to address any increased credit risk. even if potential customers do not need financing, changes in interest rates and mortgage availability could make it harder for them to sell their current homes to potential buyers who need financing. these factors could adversely affect the sales or pricing of our homes and could also reduce the volume or margins in our financial services business. beginning in early 2007, the availability of certain mortgage financing products became more constrained as the mortgage industry began to more closely scrutinize sub-prime, alt-a, and other non-conforming mortgage products. our financial services business could also be impacted to the extent we are unable to match interest rates and amounts on loans we have committed to originate through the various hedging strategies we employ. these developments have had, and may continue to have, a material adverse effect on the overall demand for new housing and thereby on the results of operations for our homebuilding business. in addition, the federal reserve has purchased a sizeable amount of mortgage-backed securities in part to stabilize mortgage interest rates and to support the market for mortgage-backed securities. as the federal reserve reduces its holdings of mortgage-backed securities over time, the availability and affordability of mortgage loans, including the consumer interest rates for such loans, could be adversely affected. we also believe that the availability of fha and va mortgage financing is an important factor in marketing some of our homes. the fha has and may continue to impose stricter loan qualification standards, raise minimum down payment requirements, impose higher mortgage insurance premiums and other costs, and/or limit the number of mortgages it insures. the liquidity provided by fannie mae and freddie mac to the mortgage industry is also critical to the housing market. the impact of the federal government's conservatorship of fannie mae and freddie mac on the short-term and long-term demand for new housing remains unclear. any limitations or restrictions on the availability of financing by these agencies could adversely affect interest rates, mortgage financing, and our sales of new homes and mortgage loans. significant costs of homeownership include mortgage interest expense and real estate taxes, both of which are generally deductible for an individual's federal and, in some cases, state income taxes. any changes to income tax laws by the federal government or a state government to eliminate or substantially reduce these income tax deductions, as has been considered from time to time, would increase the after-tax cost of owning a home. increases in real estate taxes by local governmental authorities also increase the cost of homeownership. any such increases to the cost of homeownership could adversely impact the demand for and sales prices of new homes. adverse capital and credit market conditions may significantly affect our access to capital and cost of capital. the capital and credit markets have experienced significant volatility in recent years. in many cases, the markets have exerted downward pressure on the availability of liquidity and credit capacity for issuers. we need liquidity for future growth and development of our business. without sufficient liquidity, we may not be able to purchase additional land or develop land, which could adversely affect our financial results. at december 31, 2011 , we had cash and equivalents of $1.1 billion as well as restricted cash totaling $101.9 million . however, our internal sources of liquidity may prove to be insufficient, and in such case, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us, or at all. another source of liquidity includes our ability to use letters of credit and surety bonds pursuant to certain performance-related obligations and as security for certain land option agreements and under various insurance programs. the majority of these letters of credit and surety bonds are in support of our land development and construction obligations to various municipalities, other government agencies, and utility companies related to the construction of roads, sewers, and other infrastructure. at december 31, 2011, we had outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds totaling $235.9 million and $1.2 billion , respectively. of these amounts outstanding, $83.2 million of the letters of credit were subject to cash-collateralized agreements while the remaining letters of credit and surety bonds were unsecured. if we are unable to obtain letters of credit or surety bonds when required, or the conditions imposed by issuers increase significantly, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 12 competition for homebuyers could reduce our deliveries or decrease our profitability. the housing industry in the united states is highly competitive. we compete primarily on the basis of location, price, quality, reputation, design, community amenities, and our customers' overall sales and homeownership experiences. we compete in each of our markets with numerous national, regional, and local homebuilders. this competition with other homebuilders could reduce the number of homes we deliver or cause us to accept reduced margins in order to maintain sales volume. we also compete with resales of existing or foreclosed homes, housing speculators, and available rental housing. increased competitive conditions in the residential resale or rental market in the regions where we operate could decrease demand for new homes or unfavorably impact pricing for new homes. supply shortages and other risks related to the demand for skilled labor and building materials could increase costs and delay deliveries. the homebuilding industry is highly competitive for skilled labor and materials. additionally, the cost of certain building materials, especially lumber, steel, concrete, copper, and petroleum-based materials, is influenced by changes in global commodity prices. increased costs or shortages of skilled labor and/or materials could cause increases in construction costs and construction delays. we may not be able to pass on increases in construction costs to customers and generally are unable to pass on any such increases to customers who have already entered into sales contracts as those sales contracts generally fix the price of the home at the time the contract is signed, which may be well in advance of the construction of the home. sustained increases in construction costs may, over time, erode our margins, and pricing competition for materials and labor may restrict our ability to pass on any such additional costs, thereby decreasing our margins. our income tax provision and tax reserves may be insufficient if a taxing authority is successful in asserting positions that are contrary to our interpretations and related reserves, if any. significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes and our reserves for federal, state, and local taxes. in the ordinary course of business, there may be matters for which the ultimate outcome is uncertain. our evaluation is based on a number of factors, including changes in facts or circumstances, changes in tax law, correspondence with tax authorities during the course of audits, and effective settlement of audit issues. although we believe our approach to determining the tax treatment is appropriate, no assurance can be given that the final tax authority review will not be materially different than that which is reflected in our income tax provision and related tax reserves. such differences could have a material adverse effect on our income tax provision in the period in which such determination is made and, consequently, on our net income for such period. we are periodically audited by various federal, state, and local authorities regarding tax matters. our current audits are in various stages of completion; however, no outcome for a particular audit can be determined with certainty prior to the conclusion of the audit, appeal and, in some cases, litigation process. as each audit is concluded, adjustments, if any, are appropriately recorded in our financial statements in the period determined. to provide for potential tax exposures, we maintain tax reserves based on reasonable estimates of potential audit results. if these reserves are insufficient upon completion of an audit, there could be an adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations. we may not realize our deferred income tax assets. the ultimate realization of our deferred income tax assets is dependent upon generating future taxable income and executing tax planning strategies. we have recorded valuation allowances against our deferred income tax assets. the valuation allowance will fluctuate as conditions change. our ability to utilize net operating losses ( nols ), built-in losses ( bils ), and tax credit carryforwards to offset our future taxable income would be limited if we were to undergo an ownership change within the meaning of section 382 of the internal revenue code (the irc ). in general, an ownership change occurs whenever the percentage of the stock of a corporation owned by 5-percent shareholders (within the meaning of section 382 of the irc) increases by more than 50 percentage points over the lowest percentage of the stock of such corporation owned by such 5-percent shareholders at any time over the testing period. 13 an ownership change under section 382 of the irc would establish an annual limitation to the amount of nols, bils, and tax credit carryforwards we could utilize to offset our taxable income in any single year. the application of these limitations might prevent full utilization of the deferred tax assets attributable to our nols, bils, and tax credit carryforwards. we have not experienced an ownership change as defined by section 382. to preserve our ability to utilize nols, bils, and other tax benefits in the future without a section 382 limitation, we adopted a shareholder rights plan, which is triggered upon certain transfers of our securities, and amended our by-laws to prohibit certain transfers of our securities. notwithstanding the foregoing measures, there can be no assurance that we will not undergo an ownership change within the meaning of section 382. as a result of the merger with centex, our ability to use certain of centex's pre-ownership change nols, bils, or deductions is limited under section 382 of the internal revenue code. the applicable section 382 limitation is approximately $67.4 million per year for nols, losses realized on built-in loss assets that are sold within 60 months of the ownership change, and certain deductions. the limitation may result in a significant portion of centex's pre-ownership change nols, bils, and tax credit carryforwards or deductions not being available for our use. the value of our deferred tax assets is also dependent upon the tax rates in effect at the time taxable income is expected to be generated. a decrease in enacted corporate tax rates in our major jurisdictions, especially the u.s. federal corporate tax rate, would decrease the value of our deferred tax assets, which could be material. we have significant intangible assets. if these assets become impaired, then our profits and shareholders' equity may be reduced. we have significant intangible assets related to prior business combinations. we evaluate the recoverability of intangible assets whenever facts and circumstances indicate the carrying amount may not be recoverable. if the carrying value of intangible assets is deemed impaired, the carrying value is written down to fair value. this would result in a charge to our operating earnings. if management's expectations of future results and cash flows decrease significantly, impairments of the remaining intangible assets may occur. government regulations could increase the cost and limit the availability of our development and homebuilding projects or affect our related financial services operations and adversely affect our business or financial results. our operations are subject to building, environmental, and other regulations imposed and enforced by various federal, state, and local governing authorities. for our homes to qualify for fha or va mortgages, we must satisfy valuation standards and site, material, and construction requirements of those agencies. our compliance with federal, state, and local laws relating to protection of the environment has had, to date, no material effect upon capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position. more stringent requirements could be imposed in the future on homebuilders and developers, thereby increasing the cost of compliance. new housing developments may be subject to various assessments for schools, parks, streets, and other public improvements. these can cause an increase in the effective prices for our homes. we also are subject to a variety of local, state, and federal laws and regulations concerning protection of health, safety, and the environment. the impact of environmental laws varies depending upon the prior uses of the building site or adjoining properties and may be greater in areas with less supply where undeveloped land or desirable alternatives are less available. these matters may result in delays, may cause us to incur substantial compliance, remediation and other costs, and can prohibit or severely restrict development and homebuilding activity in environmentally sensitive regions or areas. our financial services operations are also subject to numerous federal, state, and local laws and regulations. these include eligibility requirements for participation in federal loan programs and compliance with consumer lending and similar requirements such as disclosure requirements, prohibitions against discrimination, and real estate settlement procedures. they may also subject our operations to examination by applicable agencies, pursuant to which those agencies may limit our ability to provide mortgage financing or title services to potential purchasers of our homes. 14 homebuilding is subject to warranty and other claims in the ordinary course of business that can be significant. as a homebuilder, we are subject to home warranty, construction defect, and other claims arising in the ordinary course of business. we record warranty and other reserves for the homes we sell based on historical experience in our markets and our judgment of the qualitative risks associated with the types of homes built. we have, and require our subcontractors to have, general liability, property, errors and omissions, workers compensation, and other business insurance. these insurance policies protect us against a portion of our risk of loss from claims, subject to certain self-insured per occurrence and aggregate retentions, deductibles, and available policy limits. we reserve for costs to cover our self-insured and deductible amounts under these policies and for any costs of claims and lawsuits based on an analysis of our historical claims, which includes an estimate of claims incurred but not yet reported. because of the uncertainties inherent in these matters, we cannot provide assurance that our insurance coverage, our subcontractor arrangements, and our reserves will be adequate to address all our warranty and construction defect claims in the future. contractual indemnities can be difficult to enforce, we may be responsible for applicable self-insured retentions, and some types of claims may not be covered by insurance or may exceed applicable coverage limits. additionally, the coverage offered by and the availability of general liability insurance for construction defects are currently costly and limited. we have responded to the recent increases in insurance costs and coverage limitations by increasing our self-insured retentions and claim reserves. there can be no assurance that coverage will not be further restricted and become more costly. additionally, we are exposed to counterparty default risk related to our and our subcontractors' insurance carriers. natural disasters and severe weather conditions could delay deliveries, increase costs, and decrease demand for new homes in affected areas. our homebuilding operations are located in many areas that are subject to natural disasters and severe weather. the occurrence of natural disasters or severe weather conditions can delay new home deliveries, increase costs by damaging inventories, reduce the availability of materials, and negatively impact the demand for new homes in affected areas. furthermore, if our insurance does not fully cover business interruptions or losses resulting from these events, our earnings, liquidity, or capital resources could be adversely affected. inflation may result in increased costs that we may not be able to recoup if demand declines. inflation can have a long-term impact on us because increasing costs of land, materials, and labor may require us to increase the sales prices of homes in order to maintain satisfactory margins. in addition, inflation is often accompanied by higher interest rates, which have a negative impact on housing demand, in which case we may not be able to raise home prices sufficiently to keep up with the rate of inflation and our margins could decrease. future terrorist attacks against the united states or increased domestic and international instability could have an adverse effect on our operations. a future terrorist attack against the u.s. could cause a sharp decrease in the number of new contracts signed for homes and an increase in the cancellation of existing contracts. accordingly, adverse developments in the war on terrorism, future terrorist attacks against the u.s., or increased domestic and international instability could adversely affect our business. 15 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are subject to interest rate risk on our rate-sensitive financings to the extent long-term rates decline. the following tables set forth, as of december 31, 2011 and 2010, our rate-sensitive financing obligations, principal cash flows by scheduled maturity, weighted-average interest rates, and estimated fair value ($000's omitted). as of december 31, 2011 for the years ending december 31, 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 thereafter total fair value rate-sensitive liabilities: fixed interest rate debt: senior notes $ 96,393 $ 182,221 $ 574,590 $ 492,491 $ 480,000 $ 1,300,000 $ 3,125,695 $ 2,765,151 average interest rate 5.45 % 5.51 % 5.50 % 5.23 % 6.50 % 6.89 % 6.19 % as of december 31, 2010 for the years ending december 31, 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 thereafter total fair value rate-sensitive liabilities: fixed interest rate debt: senior notes $ 13,902 $ 103,699 $ 227,911 $ 654,590 $ 669,491 $ 1,780,000 $ 3,449,593 $ 3,227,404 average interest rate 8.13 % 5.45 % 5.43 % 5.47 % 5.23 % 6.79 % 6.11 % derivative instruments and hedging activities pulte mortgage is exposed to market risks from commitments to lend, movements in interest rates, and canceled or modified commitments to lend. a commitment to lend at a specific interest rate (an interest rate lock commitment) is a derivative financial instrument (interest rate is locked to the borrower). the interest rate risk continues through the loan closing and until the loan is sold to an investor. during 2011 , this period of interest rate exposure averaged approximately 60 days. in periods of rising interest rates, the length of exposure will generally increase due to customers locking in an interest rate sooner as opposed to letting the interest rate float. in order to reduce these risks, we use other derivative financial instruments to economically hedge the interest rate lock commitment, principally cash forward placement contracts on mortgage-backed securities and whole loan investor commitments. we enter into one of the aforementioned derivative financial instruments upon accepting interest rate lock commitments. changes in the fair value of interest rate lock commitments and the other derivative financial instruments are recognized in financial services revenues. we do not use any derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. hypothetical changes in the fair values of our financial instruments arising from immediate parallel shifts in long-term mortgage rates of 50, 100, and 150 basis points would not be material to our financial results. 45 special notes concerning forward-looking statements as a cautionary note, except for the historical information contained herein, certain matters discussed in item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, and item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk , are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. such forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause our actual results, performance, prospects or opportunities, as well as those of the markets we serve or intend to serve, to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, these statements. you can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate to matters of a strictly factual or historical nature and generally discuss or relate to forecasts, estimates or other expectations regarding future events. generally, the words believe, expect, intend, estimate, anticipate, project, may, can, could, might, will and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, including statements related to expected operating and performing results, planned transactions, planned objectives of management, future developments or conditions in the industries in which we participate and other trends, developments and uncertainties that may affect our business in the future. such risks, uncertainties and other factors include, among other things: interest rate changes and the availability of mortgage financing; continued volatility in the debt and equity markets; competition within the industries in which pultegroup operates; the availability and cost of land and other raw materials used by pultegroup in its homebuilding operations; the impact of any changes to our strategy in responding to continuing adverse conditions in the industry, including any changes regarding our land positions; the availability and cost of insurance covering risks associated with pultegroup's businesses; shortages and the cost of labor; weather related slowdowns; slow growth initiatives and/or local building moratoria; governmental regulation directed at or affecting the housing market, the homebuilding industry or construction activities; uncertainty in the mortgage lending industry, including revisions to underwriting standards and repurchase requirements associated with the sale of mortgage loans; the interpretation of or changes to tax, labor and environmental laws; economic changes nationally or in pultegroup's local markets, including inflation, deflation, changes in consumer confidence and preferences and the state of the market for homes in general; legal or regulatory proceedings or claims; required accounting changes; terrorist acts and other acts of war; and other factors of national, regional and global scale, including those of a political, economic, business and competitive nature. see item 1a risk factors for a further discussion of these and other risks and uncertainties applicable to pultegroup's business. pultegroup undertakes no duty to update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or changes in pultegroup's expectations. 46risk factors discussion of our business and operations included in this annual report on form 10-k should be read together with the risk factors set forth below. they describe various risks and uncertainties to which we are, or may become, subject. these risks and uncertainties, together with other factors described elsewhere in this report, have the potential to affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, strategies, or prospects in a material and adverse manner. downward changes in general economic, real estate construction, or other business conditions could adversely affect our business or our financial results. the residential homebuilding industry is sensitive to changes in economic conditions and other factors, such as the level of employment, consumer confidence, consumer income, availability of financing, and interest rate levels. adverse changes in any of these conditions generally, or in the markets where we operate, could decrease demand and pricing for new homes in these areas or result in customer cancellations of pending contracts, which could adversely affect the number of home deliveries we make or reduce the prices we can charge for homes, either of which could result in a decrease in our revenues and earnings and would adversely affect our financial condition. the homebuilding industry experienced a significant downturn in recent years. although industry conditions improved during 2012, the overall u.s. economy remains weak and the timing of a broad, sustainable recovery in the homebuilding industry remains uncertain. a deterioration in industry conditions could adversely affect our business and results of operations. in recent years, the u.s. housing market was unfavorably impacted by severe weakness in new home sales attributable to, among other factors, weak consumer confidence, tightened mortgage standards, significant foreclosure activity, a more challenging appraisal environment, higher than normal unemployment levels, and significant uncertainty in the global economy. these conditions contributed to sharply weakened demand for new homes and heightened pricing pressures on new and existing home sales. as a result of these factors, we have experienced significant decreases in our revenues and profitability. we have also incurred substantial impairments of our land inventory and certain other assets. during 2012, overall industry new home sales increased, and we returned to profitability. however, the overall demand for new homes remains at low historical levels, and the timing of a broad, sustainable recovery in the homebuilding industry remains uncertain. accordingly, we can provide no assurances that the adjustments we have made in our operating strategy will be successful. if the market value of our land and homes drops significantly, our profits could decrease. the market value of land, building lots and housing inventories can fluctuate significantly as a result of changing market conditions, and the measures we employ to manage inventory risk may not be adequate to insulate our operations from a severe drop in inventory values. we acquire land for expansion into new markets and for replacement of land inventory and expansion within our current markets. if housing demand decreases below what we anticipated when we acquired our inventory, we may not be able to make profits similar to what we have made in the past, we may experience less than anticipated profits, and/or we may not be able to recover our costs when we sell and build homes. when market conditions are such that land values are not appreciating, option arrangements previously entered into may become less desirable, at which time we may elect to forego deposits and pre-acquisition costs and terminate the agreement. in the face of adverse market conditions, we may have substantial inventory carrying costs, we may have to write down our inventory to its fair value, and/or we may have to sell land or homes at a loss. as a result of the challenging market conditions in the homebuilding industry, we have incurred significant land-related charges resulting from the write-off of deposits and pre-acquisition costs related to land transactions we elected not to pursue, net realizable valuation adjustments related to land positions sold or held for sale, impairments on land assets related to communities under development or to be developed in the future, impairments of our investments in unconsolidated joint ventures, and impairments of our recorded goodwill. it is reasonably possible that the estimated cash flows from our projects may change and could result in a future need to record additional valuation adjustments. additionally, if conditions in the homebuilding industry or our local markets worsen in the future or if our strategy related to certain communities changes, we may be required to evaluate our assets for additional impairments or write-downs, which could result in additional charges that might be significant. 9 our success depends on our ability to acquire land suitable for residential homebuilding at reasonable prices, in accordance with our land investment criteria. the homebuilding industry is highly competitive for suitable land. the availability of finished and partially finished developed lots and undeveloped land for purchase that meet our internal criteria depends on a number of factors outside our control, including land availability in general, competition with other homebuilders and land buyers for desirable property, inflation in land prices, zoning, allowable housing density, and other regulatory requirements. should suitable lots or land become less available, the number of homes we may be able to build and sell could be reduced, and the cost of land could be increased, perhaps substantially, which could adversely impact our results of operations. our long-term ability to build homes depends on our acquiring land suitable for residential building at reasonable prices in locations where we want to build. in the past, we experienced significant competition for suitable land as a result of land constraints in many of our markets. as competition for suitable land increases, and as available land is developed, the cost of acquiring suitable remaining land could rise, and the availability of suitable land at acceptable prices may decline. any land shortages or any decrease in the supply of suitable land at reasonable prices could limit our ability to develop new communities or result in increased land costs. we may not be able to pass through to our customers any increased land costs, which could adversely impact our revenues, earnings, and margins. we are subject to claims related to mortgage loans we sold in the secondary mortgage market that may be significant. our mortgage operations may be responsible for losses associated with mortgage loans originated and sold to investors in the event of errors or omissions relating to certain representations and warranties that the loans sold meet certain requirements, including representations as to underwriting standards, the type of collateral, the existence of primary mortgage insurance, and the validity of certain borrower representations in connection with the loan. we may also be required to indemnify underwriters that purchased and securitized loans originated by a former subsidiary of centex for losses incurred by investors in those securitized loans based on similar breaches of representations and warranties. to date, the significant majority of these losses relate to loans originated in 2006 and 2007, during which period inherently riskier loan products became more common in the origination market. in 2006 and 2007, we originated $39.5 billion of loans, excluding loans originated by centex's former subprime loan business sold by centex in 2006. in addition, we entered into an agreement in conjunction with the wind down of centex's mortgage operations, which ceased loan origination activities in december 2009, that provides a guaranty for one major investor of loans originated by centex. this guaranty provides that we will honor the potential repurchase obligations of centex's mortgage operations related to breaches of similar representations in the origination of a certain pool of loans. the resolution of claims related to alleged breaches of these representations and warranties and repurchase claims could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations, and could exceed existing estimates and accruals. the repurchase liability we recorded is estimated based on several factors, including the level of current unresolved repurchase requests, the volume of estimated probable future repurchase requests, our ability to cure the defects identified in the repurchase requests, and the severity of the estimated loss upon repurchase. the factors referred to above are subject to change in light of market developments, the economic environment, and other circumstances, some of which are beyond our control. accordingly, there can be no assurance that such reserves will not need to be increased in the future. 10 future increases in interest rates, reductions in mortgage availability, or increases in the effective costs of owning a home could prevent potential customers from buying our homes and adversely affect our business and financial results. a large majority of our customers finance their home purchases through mortgage loans, many through our mortgage bank. interest rates have been near historical lows for several years, which has made new homes more affordable. increases in interest rates or decreases in the availability of mortgage financing, however, could reduce the market for new homes. potential homebuyers may be less willing or able to pay the increased monthly costs or to obtain mortgage financing that exposes them to interest rate changes. lenders may increase the qualifications needed for mortgages or adjust their terms to address any increased credit risk. even if potential customers do not need financing, changes in interest rates and mortgage availability could make it harder for them to sell their current homes to potential buyers who need financing. these factors could adversely affect the sales or pricing of our homes and could also reduce the volume or margins in our financial services business. our financial services business could also be impacted to the extent we are unable to match interest rates and amounts on loans we have committed to originate through the various hedging strategies we employ. these developments have had, and may continue to have, a material adverse effect on the overall demand for new housing and thereby on the results of operations for our homebuilding business. in addition, the federal reserve has purchased a sizeable amount of mortgage-backed securities in part to stabilize mortgage interest rates and to support the market for mortgage-backed securities. as the federal reserve reduces its holdings of mortgage-backed securities over time, the availability and affordability of mortgage loans, including the consumer interest rates for such loans, could be adversely affected. we also believe that the availability of fha and va mortgage financing is an important factor in marketing some of our homes. the fha has and may continue to impose stricter loan qualification standards, raise minimum down payment requirements, impose higher mortgage insurance premiums and other costs, and/or limit the number of mortgages it insures. the liquidity provided by fannie mae and freddie mac to the mortgage industry is also critical to the housing market. the impact of the federal government's conservatorship of fannie mae and freddie mac on the short-term and long-term demand for new housing remains unclear. any limitations or restrictions on the availability of financing by these agencies could adversely affect interest rates, mortgage financing, and our sales of new homes and mortgage loans. significant costs of homeownership include mortgage interest expense and real estate taxes, both of which are generally deductible for an individual's federal and, in some cases, state income taxes. any changes to income tax laws by the federal government or a state government to eliminate or substantially reduce these income tax deductions, as has been considered from time to time, would increase the after-tax cost of owning a home. increases in real estate taxes by local governmental authorities also increase the cost of homeownership. any such increases to the cost of homeownership could adversely impact the demand for and sales prices of new homes. adverse capital and credit market conditions may significantly affect our access to capital and cost of capital. the capital and credit markets have experienced significant volatility in recent years. in many cases, the markets have exerted downward pressure on the availability of liquidity and credit capacity for issuers. we need liquidity for future growth and development of our business. without sufficient liquidity, we may not be able to purchase additional land or develop land, which could adversely affect our financial results. at december 31, 2012 , we had cash and equivalents of $1.4 billion as well as restricted cash totaling $72.0 million . however, our internal sources of liquidity may prove to be insufficient, and in such case, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us, or at all. another source of liquidity includes our ability to use letters of credit and surety bonds pursuant to certain performance-related obligations and as security for certain land option agreements and under various insurance programs. the majority of these letters of credit and surety bonds are in support of our land development and construction obligations to various municipalities, other government agencies, and utility companies related to the construction of roads, sewers, and other infrastructure. at december 31, 2012 , we had outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds totaling $179.2 million and $1.0 billion , respectively. of these amounts outstanding, $54.5 million of the letters of credit were subject to cash-collateralized agreements while the remaining letters of credit and surety bonds were unsecured. if we are unable to obtain letters of credit or surety bonds when required, or the conditions imposed by issuers increase significantly, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 11 competition for homebuyers could reduce our deliveries or decrease our profitability. the housing industry in the united states is highly competitive. we compete primarily on the basis of location, price, quality, reputation, design, community amenities, and our customers' overall sales and homeownership experiences. we compete in each of our markets with numerous national, regional, and local homebuilders. this competition with other homebuilders could reduce the number of homes we deliver or cause us to accept reduced margins in order to maintain sales volume. we also compete with resales of existing or foreclosed homes, housing speculators, and available rental housing. increased competitive conditions in the residential resale or rental market in the regions where we operate could decrease demand for new homes or unfavorably impact pricing for new homes. supply shortages and other risks related to the demand for skilled labor and building materials could increase costs and delay deliveries. the homebuilding industry is highly competitive for skilled labor and materials. additionally, the cost of certain building materials, especially lumber, steel, concrete, copper, and petroleum-based materials, is influenced by changes in global commodity prices. increased costs or shortages of skilled labor and/or materials could cause increases in construction costs and construction delays. we may not be able to pass on increases in construction costs to customers and generally are unable to pass on any such increases to customers who have already entered into sales contracts as those sales contracts generally fix the price of the home at the time the contract is signed, which may be well in advance of the construction of the home. sustained increases in construction costs may, over time, erode our margins, and pricing competition for materials and labor may restrict our ability to pass on any such additional costs, thereby decreasing our margins. our income tax provision and tax reserves may be insufficient if a taxing authority is successful in asserting positions that are contrary to our interpretations and related reserves, if any. significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes and our reserves for federal, state, and local taxes. in the ordinary course of business, there may be matters for which the ultimate outcome is uncertain. our evaluation of our tax matters is based on a number of factors, including changes in facts or circumstances, changes in tax law, correspondence with tax authorities during the course of audits, and effective settlement of audit issues. although we believe our approach to determining the tax treatment for such items is appropriate, no assurance can be given that the final tax authority review will not be materially different than that which is reflected in our income tax provision and related tax reserves. such differences could have a material adverse effect on our income tax provision in the period in which such determination is made and, consequently, on our financial position or net income for such period. we are periodically audited by various federal, state, and local authorities regarding tax matters. our current audits are in various stages of completion; however, no outcome for a particular audit can be determined with certainty prior to the conclusion of the audit, appeal and, in some cases, litigation process. as each audit is concluded, adjustments, if any, are recorded in our financial statements in the period determined. to provide for potential tax exposures, we maintain tax reserves based on reasonable estimates of potential audit results. if these reserves are insufficient upon completion of an audit, there could be an adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations. we may not realize our deferred income tax assets. the ultimate realization of our deferred income tax assets is dependent upon generating future taxable income and executing tax planning strategies. we have recorded valuation allowances against our deferred income tax assets. the valuation allowance will fluctuate as conditions change. our ability to utilize net operating losses ( nols ), built-in losses ( bils ), and tax credit carryforwards to offset our future taxable income would be limited if we were to undergo an ownership change within the meaning of section 382 of the internal revenue code (the irc ). in general, an ownership change occurs whenever the percentage of the stock of a corporation owned by 5-percent shareholders (within the meaning of section 382 of the irc) increases by more than 50 percentage points over the lowest percentage of the stock of such corporation owned by such 5-percent shareholders at any time over the testing period. 12 an ownership change under section 382 of the irc would establish an annual limitation to the amount of nols, bils, and tax credit carryforwards we could utilize to offset our taxable income in any single year. the application of these limitations might prevent full utilization of the deferred tax assets attributable to our nols, bils, and tax credit carryforwards. we have not experienced an ownership change as defined by section 382. to preserve our ability to utilize nols, bils, and other tax benefits in the future without a section 382 limitation, we adopted a shareholder rights plan, which is triggered upon certain transfers of our securities, and amended our by-laws to prohibit certain transfers of our securities. notwithstanding the foregoing measures, there can be no assurance that we will not undergo an ownership change within the meaning of section 382. as a result of the merger with centex in august 2009, our ability to use certain of centex's pre-ownership change nols, bils, and deductions is limited under section 382 of the internal revenue code. the applicable section 382 limitation is approximately $67.4 million per year for nols, losses realized on built-in loss assets that are sold within 60 months of the ownership change (i.e. before august 2014), and certain deductions. we do not believe that the section 382 limitation will prevent the company from using centex's pre-ownership change nol carryforwards and built-in losses or deductions. the value of our deferred tax assets is also dependent upon the tax rates expected to be in effect at the time taxable income is expected to be generated. a decrease in enacted corporate tax rates in our major jurisdictions, especially the u.s. federal corporate tax rate, would decrease the value of our deferred tax assets, which could be material. we have significant intangible assets. if these assets become impaired, then our profits and shareholders' equity may be reduced. we have significant intangible assets related to prior business combinations. we evaluate the recoverability of intangible assets whenever facts and circumstances indicate the carrying amount may not be recoverable. if the carrying value of intangible assets is deemed impaired, the carrying value is written down to fair value. this would result in a charge to our operating earnings. if management's expectations of future results and cash flows decrease significantly, impairments of the remaining intangible assets may occur. government regulations could increase the cost and limit the availability of our development and homebuilding projects or affect our related financial services operations and adversely affect our business or financial results. our operations are subject to building, environmental, and other regulations imposed and enforced by various federal, state, and local governing authorities. new housing developments may also be subject to various assessments for schools, parks, streets, and other public improvements. these can cause an increase in the effective cost of our homes. we also are subject to a variety of local, state, and federal laws and regulations concerning protection of health, safety, and the environment. the impact of environmental laws varies depending upon the prior uses of the building site or adjoining properties and may be greater in areas with less supply where undeveloped land or desirable alternatives are less available. these matters may result in delays, may cause us to incur substantial compliance, remediation and other costs, and can prohibit or severely restrict development and homebuilding activity in environmentally sensitive regions or areas. more stringent requirements could be imposed in the future on homebuilders and developers, thereby increasing the cost of compliance. our financial services operations are also subject to numerous federal, state, and local laws and regulations. these include eligibility requirements for participation in federal loan programs and compliance with consumer lending and similar requirements such as disclosure requirements, prohibitions against discrimination, and real estate settlement procedures. they also subject our operations to examination by applicable agencies, pursuant to which those agencies may limit our ability to provide mortgage financing or title services to potential purchasers of our homes. for our homes to qualify for fha or va mortgages, we must satisfy valuation standards and site, material, and construction requirements of those agencies. on january 10, 2013, the consumer financial protection bureau adopted new rules regarding the origination of mortgages, including the criteria for qualified mortgages . the new rules are scheduled to go into effect in january 2014. we are in the process of analyzing the new rules and the impact such rules will have on our business. additionally, many other rules required by the dodd-frank act of 2010 have not yet been completed or implemented, which has created uncertainty in the overall u.s. financial services and mortgage industries as to their long-term impact. 13 homebuilding is subject to warranty and other claims in the ordinary course of business that can be significant. as a homebuilder, we are subject to home warranty, construction defect, and other claims arising in the ordinary course of business. we record warranty and other reserves for the homes we sell based on historical experience in our markets and our judgment of the qualitative risks associated with the types of homes built. we have, and require our subcontractors to have, general liability, property, errors and omissions, workers compensation, and other business insurance. these insurance policies protect us against a portion of our risk of loss from claims, subject to certain self-insured per occurrence and aggregate retentions, deductibles, and available policy limits. we reserve for costs to cover our self-insured and deductible amounts under these policies and for any costs of claims and lawsuits based on an analysis of our historical claims, which includes an estimate of claims incurred but not yet reported. because of the uncertainties inherent in these matters, we cannot provide assurance that our insurance coverage, our subcontractor arrangements, and our reserves will be adequate to address all our warranty and construction defect claims in the future. contractual indemnities can be difficult to enforce, we may be responsible for applicable self-insured retentions, and some types of claims may not be covered by insurance or may exceed applicable coverage limits. additionally, the coverage offered by and the availability of general liability insurance for construction defects are currently costly and limited. we have responded to the recent increases in insurance costs and coverage limitations by increasing our self-insured retentions and claim reserves. there can be no assurance that coverage will not be further restricted and become more costly. additionally, we are exposed to counterparty default risk related to our and our subcontractors' insurance carriers. natural disasters and severe weather conditions could delay deliveries, increase costs, and decrease demand for new homes in affected areas. our homebuilding operations are located in many areas that are subject to natural disasters and severe weather. the occurrence of natural disasters or severe weather conditions can delay new home deliveries, increase costs by damaging inventories, reduce the availability of materials, and negatively impact the demand for new homes in affected areas. furthermore, if our insurance does not fully cover business interruptions or losses resulting from these events, our earnings, liquidity, or capital resources could be adversely affected. inflation may result in increased costs that we may not be able to recoup. inflation can have a long-term impact on us because increasing costs of land, materials, and labor may require us to increase the sales prices of homes in order to maintain satisfactory margins. however, we may not be able to raise home prices sufficiently to keep up with the rate of inflation and our margins could decrease. in addition, inflation is often accompanied by higher interest rates, which could have a negative impact on housing demand. information technology failures or data security breaches could harm our business. we use information technology and other computer resources to carry out important operational activities and to maintain our business records. our computer systems, including our back-up systems, are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches (through cyber-attacks from computer hackers and sophisticated organizations), catastrophic events such as fires, tornadoes and hurricanes, and usage errors by our associates. if our computer systems and our back-up systems are damaged, breached, or cease to function properly, we could suffer interruptions in our operations or unintentionally allow misappropriation of proprietary or confidential information (including information about our homebuyers and business partners), which could require us to incur significant costs to remediate or otherwise resolve these issues. future terrorist attacks against the united states or increased domestic and international instability could have an adverse effect on our operations. a future terrorist attack against the u.s. could cause a sharp decrease in the number of new contracts signed for homes and an increase in the cancellation of existing contracts. accordingly, adverse developments in the war on terrorism, future terrorist attacks against the u.s., or increased domestic and international instability could adversely affect our business. 14 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are subject to interest rate risk on our rate-sensitive financings to the extent long-term rates decline. the following tables set forth, as of december 31, 2012 and 2011 , our rate-sensitive financing obligations, principal cash flows by scheduled maturity, weighted-average interest rates, and estimated fair value ($000's omitted). as of december 31, 2012 for the years ending december 31, 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 thereafter total fair value rate-sensitive liabilities: fixed interest rate debt: senior notes $ $ 398,852 $ 369,222 $ 465,245 $ 150,000 $ 1,150,000 $ 2,533,319 $ 2,663,451 average interest rate % 5.49 % 5.24 % 6.50 % 7.63 % 6.80 % 6.36 % as of december 31, 2011 for the years ending december 31, 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 thereafter total fair value rate-sensitive liabilities: fixed interest rate debt: senior notes $ 96,393 $ 182,221 $ 574,590 $ 492,491 $ 480,000 $ 1,300,000 $ 3,125,695 $ 2,765,151 average interest rate 5.45 % 5.51 % 5.50 % 5.23 % 6.50 % 6.89 % 6.19 % derivative instruments and hedging activities pulte mortgage is exposed to market risks from commitments to lend, movements in interest rates, and canceled or modified commitments to lend. a commitment to lend at a specific interest rate (an interest rate lock commitment) is a derivative financial instrument (interest rate is locked to the borrower). the interest rate risk continues through the loan closing and until the loan is sold to an investor. we are generally not exposed to variability in cash flows of derivative instruments for more than approximately 60 days. in periods of rising interest rates, the length of exposure will generally increase due to customers locking in an interest rate sooner as opposed to letting the interest rate float. in order to reduce these risks, we use other derivative financial instruments, principally cash forward placement contracts on mortgage-backed securities and whole loan investor commitments, to economically hedge the interest rate lock commitment. we enter into one of the aforementioned derivative financial instruments upon accepting interest rate lock commitments. changes in the fair value of interest rate lock commitments and the other derivative financial instruments are recognized in financial services revenues. we do not use any derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. hypothetical changes in the fair values of our financial instruments arising from immediate parallel shifts in long-term mortgage rates of 50, 100, and 150 basis points would not be material to our financial results. 44 special notes concerning forward-looking statements as a cautionary note, except for the historical information contained herein, certain matters discussed in item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, and item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk , are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. such forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause our actual results, performance, prospects or opportunities, as well as those of the markets we serve or intend to serve, to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, these statements. you can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate to matters of a strictly factual or historical nature and generally discuss or relate to forecasts, estimates or other expectations regarding future events. generally, the words believe, expect, intend, estimate, anticipate, project, may, can, could, might, will and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, including statements related to expected operating and performing results, planned transactions, planned objectives of management, future developments or conditions in the industries in which we participate and other trends, developments and uncertainties that may affect our business in the future. such risks, uncertainties and other factors include, among other things: interest rate changes and the availability of mortgage financing; continued volatility in the debt and equity markets; competition within the industries in which pultegroup operates; the availability and cost of land and other raw materials used by pultegroup in its homebuilding operations; the impact of any changes to our strategy in responding to continuing adverse conditions in the industry, including any changes regarding our land positions; the availability and cost of insurance covering risks associated with pultegroup's businesses; shortages and the cost of labor; weather related slowdowns; slow growth initiatives and/or local building moratoria; governmental regulation directed at or affecting the housing market, the homebuilding industry or construction activities; uncertainty in the mortgage lending industry, including revisions to underwriting standards and repurchase requirements associated with the sale of mortgage loans; the interpretation of or changes to tax, labor and environmental laws; economic changes nationally or in pultegroup's local markets, including inflation, deflation, changes in consumer confidence and preferences and the state of the market for homes in general; legal or regulatory proceedings or claims; required accounting changes; terrorist acts and other acts of war; and other factors of national, regional and global scale, including those of a political, economic, business and competitive nature. see item 1a risk factors for a further discussion of these and other risks and uncertainties applicable to pultegroup's business. pultegroup undertakes no duty to update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or changes in pultegroup's expectations. 45risk factors discussion of our business and operations included in this annual report on form 10-k should be read together with the risk factors set forth below. they describe various risks and uncertainties to which we are, or may become, subject. these risks and uncertainties, together with other factors described elsewhere in this report, have the potential to affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, strategies, or prospects in a material and adverse manner. downward changes in general economic, real estate construction, or other business conditions could adversely affect our business or our financial results. the residential homebuilding industry is sensitive to changes in economic conditions and other factors, such as the level of employment, consumer confidence, consumer income, availability of financing, and interest rate levels. adverse changes in any of these conditions generally, or in the markets where we operate, could decrease demand and pricing for new homes in these areas or result in customer cancellations of pending contracts, which could adversely affect the number of home deliveries we make or reduce the prices we can charge for homes, either of which could result in a decrease in our revenues and earnings and would adversely affect our financial condition. the homebuilding industry experienced a significant downturn in recent years. although industry conditions improved during 2012 and 2013, the overall u.s. economy, while improving, remains challenged and consumer demand in the industry remains volatile. a deterioration in industry conditions could adversely affect our business and results of operations. beginning in 2006 and continuing through 2011, the u.s. housing market was unfavorably impacted by severe weakness in new home sales attributable to, among other factors, weak consumer confidence, tightened mortgage standards, significant foreclosure activity, a more challenging appraisal environment, higher than normal unemployment levels, and significant uncertainty in the global economy. these conditions contributed to sharply weakened demand for new homes and heightened pricing pressures on new and existing home sales. as a result of these factors, we experienced significant decreases in our revenues and profitability during the period 2007 - 2011. we also incurred substantial impairments of our land inventory and certain other assets during this period. during 2012 and 2013, overall industry new home sales increased, and we returned to profitability. however, the overall demand for new homes remains below historical levels. accordingly, we can provide no assurances that the adjustments we have made in our operating strategy will be successful. if the market value of our land and homes drops significantly, our profits could decrease. the market value of land, building lots, and housing inventories can fluctuate significantly as a result of changing market conditions, and the measures we employ to manage inventory risk may not be adequate to insulate our operations from a severe drop in inventory values. we acquire land for expansion into new markets and for replacement of land inventory and expansion within our current markets. if housing demand decreases below what we anticipated when we acquired our inventory, we may not be able to make profits similar to what we have made in the past, we may experience less than anticipated profits, and/or we may not be able to recover our costs when we sell and build homes. when market conditions are such that land values are not appreciating, option arrangements previously entered into may become less desirable, at which time we may elect to forego deposits and pre-acquisition costs and terminate the agreement. in the face of adverse market conditions, we may have substantial inventory carrying costs, we may have to write down our inventory to its fair value, and/or we may have to sell land or homes at a loss. 9 our success depends on our ability to acquire land suitable for residential homebuilding at reasonable prices, in accordance with our land investment criteria. the homebuilding industry is highly competitive for suitable land. the availability of finished and partially finished developed lots and undeveloped land for purchase that meet our internal criteria depends on a number of factors outside our control, including land availability in general, competition with other homebuilders and land buyers for desirable property, inflation in land prices, zoning, allowable housing density, and other regulatory requirements. should suitable lots or land become less available, the number of homes we may be able to build and sell could be reduced, and the cost of land could be increased, perhaps substantially, which could adversely impact our results of operations. our long-term ability to build homes depends on our acquiring land suitable for residential building at reasonable prices in locations where we want to build. in the past, we experienced significant competition for suitable land as a result of land constraints in many of our markets. as competition for suitable land increases, and as available land is developed, the cost of acquiring suitable remaining land could rise, and the availability of suitable land at acceptable prices may decline. any land shortages or any decrease in the supply of suitable land at reasonable prices could limit our ability to develop new communities or result in increased land costs. we may not be able to pass through to our customers any increased land costs, which could adversely impact our revenues, earnings, and margins. we are subject to claims related to mortgage loans we sold in the secondary mortgage market that may be significant. our mortgage operations may be responsible for losses associated with mortgage loans originated and sold to investors in the event of errors or omissions relating to certain representations and warranties made by us that the loans met certain requirements, including representations as to underwriting standards, the type of collateral, the existence of primary mortgage insurance, and the validity of certain borrower representations in connection with the loan. we may also be required to indemnify underwriters that purchased and securitized loans originated by a former subsidiary of centex for losses incurred by investors in those securitized loans based on similar breaches of representations and warranties. to date, the significant majority of these losses relate to loans originated in 2006 and 2007, during which period inherently riskier loan products became more common in the origination market. in 2006 and 2007, we originated $39.5 billion of loans, excluding loans originated by centex's former subprime loan business sold by centex in 2006. in addition, we entered into an agreement in conjunction with the wind down of centex's mortgage operations, which ceased loan origination activities in december 2009, that provides a guaranty for one major investor of loans originated by centex. this guaranty provides that we will honor the potential repurchase obligations of centex's mortgage operations related to breaches of similar representations in the origination of a certain pool of loans. the resolution of claims related to alleged breaches of these representations and warranties and repurchase claims could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations, and could exceed existing estimates and accruals. the repurchase liability we have recorded is estimated based on several factors, including the level of current unresolved repurchase requests, the volume of estimated probable future repurchase requests, our ability to cure the defects identified in the repurchase requests, and the severity of the estimated loss upon repurchase. the factors referred to above are subject to change in light of market developments, the economic environment, and other circumstances, some of which are beyond our control. accordingly, there can be no assurance that such reserves will not need to be increased in the future. 10 future increases in interest rates, reductions in mortgage availability, or other increases in the effective costs of owning a home could prevent potential customers from buying our homes and adversely affect our business and financial results. a large majority of our customers finance their home purchases through mortgage loans, many through our mortgage bank. interest rates have been near historical lows for several years, which has made new homes more affordable. increases in interest rates or decreases in the availability of mortgage financing, however, could adversely affect the market for new homes. potential homebuyers may be less willing or able to pay the increased monthly costs or to obtain mortgage financing. lenders may increase the qualifications needed for mortgages or adjust their terms to address any increased credit risk. even if potential customers do not need financing, changes in interest rates and mortgage availability could make it harder for them to sell their current homes to potential buyers who need financing. these factors could adversely affect the sales or pricing of our homes and could also reduce the volume or margins in our financial services business. our financial services business could also be impacted to the extent we are unable to match interest rates and amounts on loans we have committed to originate through the various hedging strategies we employ. these developments have had, and may continue to have, a material adverse effect on the overall demand for new housing and thereby on the results of operations for our homebuilding business. we also believe that the availability of fha and va mortgage financing is an important factor in marketing some of our homes. the fha has and may continue to impose stricter loan qualification standards, raise minimum down payment requirements, impose higher mortgage insurance premiums and other costs, and/or limit the number of mortgages it insures. the liquidity provided by fannie mae and freddie mac to the mortgage industry is also critical to the housing market. the impact of the federal government's conservatorship of fannie mae and freddie mac on the short-term and long-term demand for new housing remains unclear. any limitations or restrictions on the availability of financing by these agencies could adversely affect interest rates, mortgage financing, and our sales of new homes and mortgage loans. significant costs of homeownership include mortgage interest expense and real estate taxes, both of which are generally deductible for an individual's federal and, in some cases, state income taxes. any changes to income tax laws by the federal government or a state government to eliminate or substantially reduce these income tax deductions, as has been considered from time to time, would increase the after-tax cost of owning a home. increases in real estate taxes by local governmental authorities also increase the cost of homeownership. any such increases to the cost of homeownership could adversely impact the demand for and sales prices of new homes. adverse capital and credit market conditions may significantly affect our access to capital and cost of capital. the capital and credit markets have experienced significant volatility in recent years. in many cases, the markets have exerted downward pressure on the availability of liquidity and credit capacity for issuers. we may need credit-related liquidity for future growth and development of our business. without sufficient liquidity, we may not be able to purchase additional land or develop land, which could adversely affect our financial results. at december 31, 2013 , we had cash and equivalents of $1.6 billion as well as restricted cash totaling $72.7 million . however, our internal sources of liquidity may prove to be insufficient, and in such case, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us, or at all. another source of liquidity includes our ability to use letters of credit and surety bonds pursuant to certain performance-related obligations and as security for certain land option agreements and under various insurance programs. the majority of these letters of credit and surety bonds are in support of our land development and construction obligations to various municipalities, other government agencies, and utility companies related to the construction of roads, sewers, and other infrastructure. at december 31, 2013 , we had outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds totaling $183.1 million and $958.3 million , respectively. of these amounts outstanding, $58.7 million of the letters of credit were subject to cash-collateralized agreements while the remaining letters of credit and surety bonds were unsecured. if we are unable to obtain letters of credit or surety bonds when required, or the conditions imposed by issuers increase significantly, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 11 competition for homebuyers could reduce our deliveries or decrease our profitability. the housing industry in the u.s. is highly competitive. we compete primarily on the basis of location, price, quality, reputation, design, community amenities, and our customers' overall sales and homeownership experiences. we compete in each of our markets with numerous national, regional, and local homebuilders. this competition with other homebuilders could reduce the number of homes we deliver or cause us to accept reduced margins in order to maintain sales volume. we also compete with resales of existing or foreclosed homes, housing speculators, and available rental housing. increased competitive conditions in the residential resale or rental market in the regions where we operate could decrease demand for new homes or unfavorably impact pricing for new homes. supply shortages and other risks related to the demand for skilled labor and building materials could increase costs and delay deliveries. the homebuilding industry is highly competitive for skilled labor and materials. additionally, the cost of certain building materials, especially lumber, steel, concrete, copper, and petroleum-based materials, is influenced by changes in global commodity prices. increased costs or shortages of skilled labor and/or materials could cause increases in construction costs and construction delays. we may not be able to pass on increases in construction costs to customers and generally are unable to pass on any such increases to customers who have already entered into sales contracts as those sales contracts generally fix the price of the home at the time the contract is signed, which may be well in advance of the construction of the home. sustained increases in construction costs may, over time, erode our margins, and pricing competition may restrict our ability to pass on any such additional costs, thereby decreasing our margins. our income tax provision and tax reserves may be insufficient if a taxing authority is successful in asserting positions that are contrary to our interpretations and related reserves, if any. significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes and our reserves for federal, state, and local taxes. in the ordinary course of business, there may be matters for which the ultimate outcome is uncertain. our evaluation of our tax matters is based on a number of factors, including changes in facts or circumstances, changes in tax law, correspondence with tax authorities during the course of audits, and effective settlement of audit issues. although we believe our approach to determining the tax treatment for such items is appropriate, no assurance can be given that the final tax authority review will not be materially different than that which is reflected in our income tax provision and related tax reserves. such differences could have a material adverse effect on our income tax provision in the period in which such determination is made and, consequently, on our financial position, cash flows, or net income for such period. we are periodically audited by various federal, state, and local authorities regarding tax matters. our current audits are in various stages of completion; however, no outcome for a particular audit can be determined with certainty prior to the conclusion of the audit, appeal and, in some cases, litigation process. as each audit is concluded, adjustments, if any, are recorded in our financial statements in the period determined. to provide for potential tax exposures, we maintain tax reserves based on reasonable estimates of potential audit results. if these reserves are insufficient upon completion of an audit, there could be an adverse impact on our financial position, cash flows, and results of operations. we may not realize our deferred income tax assets. as of december 31, 2013 , we had deferred income tax assets, net of deferred tax liabilities, of $2.2 billion , against which we provided a valuation allowance of $157.3 million . the ultimate realization of our deferred income tax assets is dependent upon generating future taxable income and executing tax planning strategies. while we have recorded valuation allowances against certain of our deferred income tax assets, the valuation allowances are subject to change as facts and circumstances change. our ability to utilize net operating losses ( nols ), built-in losses ( bils ), and tax credit carryforwards to offset our future taxable income would be limited if we were to undergo an ownership change within the meaning of section 382 of the internal revenue code (the irc ). in general, an ownership change occurs whenever the percentage of the stock of a corporation owned by 5-percent shareholders (within the meaning of section 382 of the irc) increases by more than 50 percentage points over the lowest percentage of the stock of such corporation owned by such 5-percent shareholders at any time over the testing period. 12 an ownership change under section 382 of the irc would establish an annual limitation to the amount of nols, bils, and tax credit carryforwards we could utilize to offset our taxable income in any single year. the application of these limitations might prevent full utilization of the deferred tax assets attributable to our nols, bils, and tax credit carryforwards. we have not experienced an ownership change as defined by section 382. to preserve our ability to utilize nols, bils, and other tax benefits in the future without a section 382 limitation, we adopted a shareholder rights plan, which is triggered upon certain transfers of our securities, and amended our by-laws to prohibit certain transfers of our securities. notwithstanding the foregoing measures, there can be no assurance that we will not undergo an ownership change within the meaning of section 382. as a result of the merger with centex in august 2009, our ability to use certain of centex's pre-ownership change nols, bils, and deductions is limited under section 382 of the internal revenue code. the applicable section 382 limitation is approximately $67.4 million per year for nols, losses realized on built-in loss assets that are sold within 60 months of the ownership change (i.e. before august 2014), and certain deductions. we do not believe that the section 382 limitation will prevent the company from using centex's pre-ownership change nol carryforwards and built-in losses or deductions. the value of our deferred tax assets is also dependent upon the tax rates expected to be in effect at the time taxable income is expected to be generated. a decrease in enacted corporate tax rates in our major jurisdictions, especially the u.s. federal corporate tax rate, would decrease the value of our deferred tax assets, which could be material. we have significant intangible assets. if these assets become impaired, then our profits and shareholders' equity may be reduced. we have significant intangible assets related to prior business combinations. we evaluate the recoverability of intangible assets whenever facts and circumstances indicate the carrying amount may not be recoverable. if the carrying value of intangible assets is deemed impaired, the carrying value is written down to fair value. this would result in a charge to our operating earnings. if management's expectations of future results and cash flows decrease significantly, impairments of the remaining intangible assets may occur. government regulations could increase the cost and limit the availability of our development and homebuilding projects or affect our related financial services operations and adversely affect our business or financial results. our operations are subject to building, environmental, and other regulations imposed and enforced by various federal, state, and local governing authorities. new housing developments may also be subject to various assessments for schools, parks, streets, and other public improvements. these can cause an increase in the effective cost of our homes. we also are subject to a variety of local, state, and federal laws and regulations concerning protection of health, safety, and the environment. the impact of environmental laws varies depending upon the prior uses of the building site or adjoining properties and may be greater in areas with less supply where undeveloped land or desirable alternatives are less available. these matters may result in delays, may cause us to incur substantial compliance, remediation and other costs, and can prohibit or severely restrict development and homebuilding activity in environmentally sensitive regions or areas. more stringent requirements could be imposed in the future on homebuilders and developers, thereby increasing the cost of compliance. our financial services operations are also subject to numerous federal, state, and local laws and regulations. these include eligibility requirements for participation in federal loan programs and compliance with consumer lending and similar requirements such as disclosure requirements, prohibitions against discrimination, and real estate settlement procedures. they also subject our operations to examination by applicable agencies, pursuant to which those agencies may limit our ability to provide mortgage financing or title services to potential purchasers of our homes. for our homes to qualify for fha or va mortgages, we must satisfy valuation standards and site, material, and construction requirements of those agencies. in january 2013, the consumer financial protection bureau adopted new rules regarding the origination of mortgages, including the criteria for qualified mortgages , rules for lender practices regarding assessing borrowers' ability to repay, and limitations on certain fees and incentive arrangements. such rules went into effect in january 2014. while we have adjusted our operations to comply with the new rules, the impact such rules will have on our business remains unclear. additionally, many other rules required by the dodd-frank act of 2010 have not yet been completed or implemented, which has created uncertainty in the overall u.s. financial services and mortgage industries as to their long-term impact. 13 homebuilding is subject to warranty and other claims in the ordinary course of business that can be significant. as a homebuilder, we are subject to home warranty, construction defect, and other claims arising in the ordinary course of business. we record warranty and other reserves for the homes we sell based on historical experience in our markets and our judgment of the qualitative risks associated with the types of homes built. we have, and require our subcontractors to have, general liability, property, errors and omissions, workers compensation, and other business insurance. these insurance policies protect us against a portion of our risk of loss from claims, subject to certain self-insured per occurrence and aggregate retentions, deductibles, and available policy limits. we reserve for costs to cover our self-insured and deductible amounts under these policies and for any costs of claims and lawsuits based on an analysis of our historical claims, which includes an estimate of claims incurred but not yet reported. because of the uncertainties inherent in these matters, we cannot provide assurance that our insurance coverage, our subcontractor arrangements, and our reserves will be adequate to address all our warranty and construction defect claims in the future. contractual indemnities can be difficult to enforce, we may be responsible for applicable self-insured retentions, and some types of claims may not be covered by insurance or may exceed applicable coverage limits. additionally, the coverage offered by and the availability of general liability insurance for construction defects are currently costly and limited. we have responded to increases in insurance costs and coverage limitations by increasing our self-insured retentions and claim reserves. there can be no assurance that coverage will not be further restricted and become more costly. additionally, we are exposed to counterparty default risk related to our subcontractors and our and our subcontractors' insurance carriers. natural disasters and severe weather conditions could delay deliveries, increase costs, and decrease demand for new homes in affected areas. our homebuilding operations are located in many areas that are subject to natural disasters and severe weather. the occurrence of natural disasters or severe weather conditions can delay new home deliveries, increase costs by damaging inventories, reduce the availability of materials, and negatively impact the demand for new homes in affected areas. furthermore, if our insurance does not fully cover business interruptions or losses resulting from these events, our earnings, liquidity, or capital resources could be adversely affected. inflation may result in increased costs that we may not be able to recoup. inflation can have a long-term impact on us because increasing costs of land, materials, and labor may require us to increase the sales prices of homes in order to maintain satisfactory margins. however, we may not be able to raise home prices sufficiently to keep up with the rate of inflation and our margins could decrease. in addition, inflation is often accompanied by higher interest rates, which could have a negative impact on housing demand. information technology failures or data security breaches could harm our business. we use information technology and other computer resources to carry out important operational activities and to maintain our business records. our computer systems, including our back-up systems, are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches (through cyber-attacks from computer hackers and sophisticated organizations), catastrophic events such as fires, tornadoes and hurricanes, and usage errors by our associates. if our computer systems and our back-up systems are damaged, breached, or cease to function properly, we could suffer interruptions in our operations or unintentionally allow misappropriation of proprietary or confidential information (including information about our homebuyers and business partners), which could require us to incur significant costs to remediate or otherwise resolve these issues. future terrorist attacks against the u.s. or increased domestic and international instability could have an adverse effect on our operations. a future terrorist attack against the u.s. could cause a sharp decrease in the number of new contracts signed for homes and an increase in the cancellation of existing contracts. accordingly, adverse developments in the war on terrorism, future terrorist attacks against the u.s., or increased domestic and international instability could adversely affect our business. 14 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are subject to interest rate risk on our rate-sensitive financings to the extent long-term rates decline. the following tables set forth, as of december 31, 2013 and 2012 , our rate-sensitive financing obligations, principal cash flows by scheduled maturity, weighted-average interest rates, and estimated fair value ($000's omitted). as of december 31, 2013 for the years ending december 31, 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 thereafter total fair value rate-sensitive liabilities: fixed interest rate debt: senior notes $ $ 333,647 $ 465,245 $ 123,000 $ $ 1,150,000 $ 2,071,892 $ 2,070,744 average interest rate % 5.24 % 6.50 % 7.63 % % 6.80 % 6.53 % as of december 31, 2012 for the years ending december 31, 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 thereafter total fair value rate-sensitive liabilities: fixed interest rate debt: senior notes $ $ 398,852 $ 369,222 $ 465,245 $ 150,000 $ 1,150,000 $ 2,533,319 $ 2,663,451 average interest rate % 5.49 % 5.24 % 6.50 % 7.63 % 6.80 % 6.36 % derivative instruments and hedging activities pulte mortgage is exposed to market risks from commitments to lend, movements in interest rates, and canceled or modified commitments to lend. a commitment to lend at a specific interest rate (an interest rate lock commitment) is a derivative financial instrument (interest rate is locked to the borrower). the interest rate risk continues through the loan closing and until the loan is sold to an investor. we are generally not exposed to variability in cash flows of derivative instruments for more than approximately 75 days. in periods of rising interest rates, the length of exposure will generally increase due to customers locking in an interest rate sooner as opposed to letting the interest rate float. in order to reduce these risks, we use other derivative financial instruments, principally cash forward placement contracts on mortgage-backed securities and whole loan investor commitments, to economically hedge the interest rate lock commitment. we enter into one of the aforementioned derivative financial instruments upon accepting interest rate lock commitments. changes in the fair value of interest rate lock commitments and the other derivative financial instruments are recognized in financial services revenues. we do not use any derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. hypothetical changes in the fair values of our financial instruments arising from immediate parallel shifts in long-term mortgage rates of 50, 100, and 150 basis points would not be material to our financial results. 44 special notes concerning forward-looking statements as a cautionary note, except for the historical information contained herein, certain matters discussed in item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, and item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk , are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. such forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause our actual results, performance, prospects or opportunities, as well as those of the markets we serve or intend to serve, to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, these statements. you can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate to matters of a strictly factual or historical nature and generally discuss or relate to forecasts, estimates or other expectations regarding future events. generally, the words believe, expect, intend, estimate, anticipate, project, may, can, could, might, will and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, including statements related to expected operating and performing results, planned transactions, planned objectives of management, future developments or conditions in the industries in which we participate and other trends, developments and uncertainties that may affect our business in the future. such risks, uncertainties and other factors include, among other things: interest rate changes and the availability of mortgage financing; continued volatility in the debt and equity markets; competition within the industries in which we operate; the availability and cost of land and other raw materials used by us in our homebuilding operations; the impact of any changes to our strategy in responding to the cyclical nature of the industry, including any changes regarding our land positions; the availability and cost of insurance covering risks associated with our businesses; shortages and the cost of labor; weather related slowdowns; slow growth initiatives and/or local building moratoria; governmental regulation directed at or affecting the housing market, the homebuilding industry or construction activities; uncertainty in the mortgage lending industry, including revisions to underwriting standards and repurchase requirements associated with the sale of mortgage loans; the interpretation of or changes to tax, labor and environmental laws; economic changes nationally or in our local markets, including inflation, deflation, changes in consumer confidence and preferences and the state of the market for homes in general; legal or regulatory proceedings or claims; required accounting changes; terrorist acts and other acts of war; and other factors of national, regional and global scale, including those of a political, economic, business and competitive nature. see item 1a risk factors for a further discussion of these and other risks and uncertainties applicable to our businesses. we undertake no duty to update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or changes in our expectations. 45risk factors discussion of our business and operations included in this annual report on form 10-k should be read together with the risk factors set forth below. they describe various risks and uncertainties to which we are, or may become, subject. these risks and uncertainties, together with other factors described elsewhere in this report, have the potential to affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, strategies, or prospects in a material and adverse manner. downward changes in general economic, real estate construction, or other business conditions could adversely affect our business or our financial results. the residential homebuilding industry is sensitive to changes in economic conditions and other factors, such as the level of employment, consumer confidence, consumer income, availability of financing, and interest rate levels. adverse changes in any of these conditions generally, or in the markets where we operate, could decrease demand and pricing for new homes in these areas or result in customer cancellations of pending contracts, which could adversely affect the number of home deliveries we make or reduce the prices we can charge for homes, either of which could result in a decrease in our revenues and earnings and would adversely affect our financial condition. the homebuilding industry experienced a significant downturn from 2006 through 2011. although industry conditions improved beginning in 2012, the overall u.s. economy, while improving, remains challenged and consumer demand in the industry remains volatile. a deterioration in industry conditions could adversely affect our business and results of operations. beginning in 2006 and continuing through 2011, the u.s. housing market was unfavorably impacted by severe weakness in new home sales attributable to, among other factors, weak consumer confidence, tightened mortgage standards, significant foreclosure activity, a more challenging appraisal environment, higher than normal unemployment levels, and significant uncertainty in the global economy. these conditions contributed to sharply weakened demand for new homes and heightened pricing pressures on new and existing home sales. as a result of these factors, we experienced significant decreases in our revenues and profitability during the period 2007 - 2011. we also incurred substantial impairments of our land inventory and certain other assets during this period. since 2011, overall industry new home sales have increased, and we returned to profitability. however, the overall demand for new homes remains below historical levels. accordingly, we can provide no assurances that the adjustments we have made in our operating strategy will be successful. if the market value of our land and homes drops significantly, our profits could decrease. the market value of land, building lots, and housing inventories can fluctuate significantly as a result of changing market conditions, and the measures we employ to manage inventory risk may not be adequate to insulate our operations from a severe drop in inventory values. we acquire land for expansion into new markets and for replacement of land inventory and expansion within our current markets. if housing demand decreases below what we anticipated when we acquired our inventory, we may not be able to make profits similar to what we have made in the past, we may experience less than anticipated profits, and/or we may not be able to recover our costs when we sell and build homes. when market conditions are such that land values are not appreciating, option arrangements previously entered into may become less desirable, at which time we may elect to forego deposits and pre-acquisition costs and terminate the agreement. in the face of adverse market conditions, we may have substantial inventory carrying costs, we may have to write down our inventory to its fair value, and/or we may have to sell land or homes at a loss. 9 our success depends on our ability to acquire land suitable for residential homebuilding at reasonable prices, in accordance with our land investment criteria. the homebuilding industry is highly competitive for suitable land. the availability of finished and partially finished developed lots and undeveloped land for purchase that meet our internal criteria depends on a number of factors outside our control, including land availability in general, competition with other homebuilders and land buyers for desirable property, inflation in land prices, zoning, allowable housing density, and other regulatory requirements. should suitable lots or land become less available, the number of homes we may be able to build and sell could be reduced, and the cost of land could be increased, perhaps substantially, which could adversely impact our results of operations. our long-term ability to build homes depends on our acquiring land suitable for residential building at reasonable prices in locations where we want to build. in the past, we experienced significant competition for suitable land as a result of land constraints in many of our markets. as competition for suitable land increases, and as available land is developed, the cost of acquiring suitable remaining land could rise, and the availability of suitable land at acceptable prices may decline. any land shortages or any decrease in the supply of suitable land at reasonable prices could limit our ability to develop new communities or result in increased land costs. we may not be able to pass through to our customers any increased land costs, which could adversely impact our revenues, earnings, and margins. we are subject to claims related to mortgage loans we sold in the secondary mortgage market that may be significant. our mortgage operations may be responsible for losses associated with mortgage loans originated and sold to investors in the event of errors or omissions relating to certain representations and warranties made by us that the loans met certain requirements, including representations as to underwriting standards, the type of collateral, the existence of primary mortgage insurance, and the validity of certain borrower representations in connection with the loan. we may also be required to indemnify underwriters that purchased and securitized loans originated by a former subsidiary of centex for losses incurred by investors in those securitized loans based on similar breaches of representations and warranties. to date, the significant majority of these losses relate to loans originated in 2006 and 2007, during which period inherently riskier loan products became more common in the origination market. in addition, we entered into an agreement in conjunction with the wind down of centex's mortgage operations, which ceased loan origination activities in december 2009, that provides a guaranty for one major investor of loans originated by centex. this guaranty provides that we will honor the potential repurchase obligations of centex's mortgage operations related to breaches of similar representations in the origination of a certain pool of loans. the resolution of claims related to alleged breaches of these representations and warranties and repurchase claims could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations, and could exceed existing estimates and accruals. the repurchase liability we have recorded is estimated based on several factors, including the level of current unresolved repurchase requests, the volume of estimated probable future repurchase requests, our ability to cure the defects identified in the repurchase requests, and the severity of the estimated loss upon repurchase. the factors referred to above are subject to change in light of market developments, the economic environment, and other circumstances, some of which are beyond our control. accordingly, there can be no assurance that such reserves will not need to be increased in the future. 10 future increases in interest rates, reductions in mortgage availability, or other increases in the effective costs of owning a home could prevent potential customers from buying our homes and adversely affect our business and financial results. a large majority of our customers finance their home purchases through mortgage loans, many through our mortgage bank. interest rates have been near historical lows for several years, which has made new homes more affordable. increases in interest rates or decreases in the availability of mortgage financing could adversely affect the market for new homes. potential homebuyers may be less willing or able to pay the increased monthly costs or to obtain mortgage financing. lenders may increase the qualifications needed for mortgages or adjust their terms to address any increased credit risk. even if potential customers do not need financing, changes in interest rates and mortgage availability could make it harder for them to sell their current homes to potential buyers who need financing. these factors could adversely affect the sales or pricing of our homes and could also reduce the volume or margins in our financial services business. our financial services business could also be impacted to the extent we are unable to match interest rates and amounts on loans we have committed to originate through the various hedging strategies we employ. these developments have had, and may continue to have, a material adverse effect on the overall demand for new housing and thereby on the results of operations for our homebuilding business. we also believe that the availability of fha and va mortgage financing is an important factor in marketing some of our homes. the liquidity provided by fannie mae and freddie mac to the mortgage industry is also critical to the housing market. the impact of the federal government's conservatorship of fannie mae and freddie mac on the short-term and long-term demand for new housing remains unclear. any limitations or restrictions on the availability of financing by these agencies could adversely affect interest rates, mortgage financing, and our sales of new homes and mortgage loans. mortgage interest expense and real estate taxes represent significant costs of homeownership, both of which are generally deductible for an individual's federal and, in some cases, state income taxes. any changes to income tax laws by the federal government or a state government to eliminate or substantially reduce these income tax deductions, as has been considered from time to time, would increase the after-tax cost of owning a home. increases in real estate taxes by local governmental authorities also increase the cost of homeownership. any such increases to the cost of homeownership could adversely impact the demand for and sales prices of new homes. adverse capital and credit market conditions may significantly affect our access to capital and cost of capital. the capital and credit markets can experience significant volatility. we may need credit-related liquidity for future growth and development of our business. without sufficient liquidity, we may not be able to purchase additional land or develop land, which could adversely affect our financial results. at december 31, 2014 , we had cash and equivalents of $1.3 billion as well as restricted cash totaling $16.4 million . however, our internal sources of liquidity may prove to be insufficient, and in such case, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us, or at all. another source of liquidity includes our ability to use letters of credit and surety bonds pursuant to certain performance-related obligations and as security for certain land option agreements and under various insurance programs. the majority of these letters of credit and surety bonds are in support of our land development and construction obligations to various municipalities, other government agencies, and utility companies related to the construction of roads, sewers, and other infrastructure. at december 31, 2014 , we had outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds totaling $212.1 million and $1.0 billion , respectively. of these amounts outstanding, $3.7 million of the letters of credit were subject to cash-collateralized agreements while the remaining letters of credit and surety bonds were unsecured. the majority of these letters of credit are issued via our unsecured revolving credit facility, which contains certain financial covenants and other limitations. if we are unable to obtain letters of credit or surety bonds when required, or the conditions imposed by issuers increase significantly, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 11 competition for homebuyers could reduce our deliveries or decrease our profitability. the housing industry in the u.s. is highly competitive. we compete primarily on the basis of location, price, quality, reputation, design, community amenities, and our customers' overall sales and homeownership experiences. we compete in each of our markets with numerous national, regional, and local homebuilders. this competition with other homebuilders could reduce the number of homes we deliver or cause us to accept reduced margins in order to maintain sales volume. we also compete with resales of existing or foreclosed homes, housing speculators, and available rental housing. increased competitive conditions in the residential resale or rental market in the regions where we operate could decrease demand for new homes or unfavorably impact pricing for new homes. supply shortages and other risks related to the demand for skilled labor and building materials could increase costs and delay deliveries. the homebuilding industry is highly competitive for skilled labor and materials. additionally, the cost of certain building materials, especially lumber, steel, concrete, copper, and petroleum-based materials, is influenced by changes in global commodity prices. increased costs or shortages of skilled labor and/or materials could cause increases in construction costs and construction delays. we may not be able to pass on increases in construction costs to customers and generally are unable to pass on any such increases to customers who have already entered into sales contracts as those sales contracts generally fix the price of the home at the time the contract is signed, which may be well in advance of the construction of the home. sustained increases in construction costs may, over time, erode our margins, and pricing competition may restrict our ability to pass on any such additional costs, thereby decreasing our margins. our income tax provision and tax reserves may be insufficient if a taxing authority is successful in asserting positions that are contrary to our interpretations and related reserves, if any. significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes and our reserves for federal, state, and local taxes. in the ordinary course of business, there may be matters for which the ultimate outcome is uncertain. our evaluation of our tax matters is based on a number of factors, including changes in facts or circumstances, changes in tax law, correspondence with tax authorities during the course of audits, and effective settlement of audit issues. although we believe our approach to determining the tax treatment for such items is appropriate, no assurance can be given that the final tax authority review will not be materially different than that which is reflected in our income tax provision and related tax reserves. such differences could have a material adverse effect on our income tax provision in the period in which such determination is made and, consequently, on our financial position, cash flows, or net income for such period. we are periodically audited by various federal, state, and local authorities regarding tax matters. our current audits are in various stages of completion; however, no outcome for a particular audit can be determined with certainty prior to the conclusion of the audit, appeal and, in some cases, litigation process. as each audit is concluded, adjustments, if any, are recorded in our financial statements in the period determined. to provide for potential tax exposures, we consider a variety of factors, including changes in facts or circumstances, changes in law, correspondence with taxing authorities, and effective settlement of audit issues. if these reserves are insufficient upon completion of an audit, there could be an adverse impact on our financial position, cash flows, and results of operations. we may not realize our deferred income tax assets. as of december 31, 2014 , we had deferred income tax assets, net of deferred tax liabilities, of $1.8 billion , against which we provided a valuation allowance of $82.3 million . the ultimate realization of our deferred income tax assets is dependent upon generating future taxable income and executing tax planning strategies. while we have recorded valuation allowances against certain of our deferred income tax assets, the valuation allowances are subject to change as facts and circumstances change. our ability to utilize net operating losses ( nols ), built-in losses ( bils ), and tax credit carryforwards to offset our future taxable income would be limited if we were to undergo an ownership change within the meaning of section 382 of the internal revenue code (the irc ). in general, an ownership change occurs whenever the percentage of the stock of a corporation owned by 5-percent shareholders (within the meaning of section 382 of the irc) increases by more than 50 percentage points over the lowest percentage of the stock of such corporation owned by such 5-percent shareholders at any time over the testing period. 12 an ownership change under section 382 of the irc would establish an annual limitation to the amount of nols, bils, and tax credit carryforwards we could utilize to offset our taxable income in any single year. the application of these limitations might prevent full utilization of the deferred tax assets attributable to our nols, bils, and tax credit carryforwards. we have not experienced an ownership change as defined by section 382. to preserve our ability to utilize nols, bils, and other tax benefits in the future without a section 382 limitation, we adopted a shareholder rights plan, which is triggered upon certain transfers of our securities, and amended our by-laws to prohibit certain transfers of our securities. notwithstanding the foregoing measures, there can be no assurance that we will not undergo an ownership change within the meaning of section 382. as a result of our merger with centex in august 2009, our ability to use certain of centex's pre-ownership change nols, bils, and deductions is limited under section 382 of the internal revenue code. the applicable section 382 limitation is approximately $67.4 million per year for nols, losses realized on built-in loss assets that were sold within 60 months of the ownership change, and certain deductions. we do not believe that the section 382 limitation will prevent the company from using centex's pre-ownership change nol carryforwards and built-in losses or deductions. the value of our deferred tax assets is also dependent upon the tax rates expected to be in effect at the time taxable income is expected to be generated. a decrease in enacted corporate tax rates in our major jurisdictions, especially the u.s. federal corporate tax rate, would decrease the value of our deferred tax assets, which could be material. we have significant intangible assets. if these assets become impaired, then our profits and shareholders' equity may be reduced. we have significant intangible assets related to prior business combinations. we evaluate the recoverability of intangible assets whenever facts and circumstances indicate the carrying amount may not be recoverable. if the carrying value of intangible assets is deemed impaired, the carrying value is written down to fair value. this would result in a charge to our operating earnings. if management's expectations of future results and cash flows decrease significantly, impairments of the remaining intangible assets may occur. government regulations could increase the cost and limit the availability of our development and homebuilding projects or affect our related financial services operations and adversely affect our business or financial results. our operations are subject to building, environmental, and other regulations imposed and enforced by various federal, state, and local governing authorities. new housing developments may also be subject to various assessments for schools, parks, streets, and other public improvements. these can cause an increase in the effective cost of our homes. we also are subject to a variety of local, state, and federal laws and regulations concerning protection of health, safety, and the environment. the impact of environmental laws varies depending upon the prior uses of the building site or adjoining properties and may be greater in areas with less supply where undeveloped land or desirable alternatives are less available. these matters may result in delays, may cause us to incur substantial compliance, remediation and other costs, and can prohibit or severely restrict development and homebuilding activity in environmentally sensitive regions or areas. more stringent requirements could be imposed in the future on homebuilders and developers, thereby increasing the cost of compliance. our financial services operations are also subject to numerous federal, state, and local laws and regulations. these include eligibility requirements for participation in federal loan programs and compliance with consumer lending and similar requirements such as disclosure requirements, prohibitions against discrimination, and real estate settlement procedures. they also subject our operations to examination by applicable agencies, pursuant to which those agencies may limit our ability to provide mortgage financing or title services to potential purchasers of our homes. for our homes to qualify for fha or va mortgages, we must satisfy valuation standards and site, material, and construction requirements of those agencies. in january 2013, the consumer financial protection bureau adopted new rules regarding the origination of mortgages, including the criteria for qualified mortgages , rules for lender practices regarding assessing borrowers' ability to repay, and limitations on certain fees and incentive arrangements. such rules went into effect in january 2014. while we have adjusted our operations to comply with the new rules, the impact such rules will have on our business remains unclear. additionally, many other rules required by the dodd-frank act of 2010 have not yet been completed or implemented, which has created uncertainty in the overall u.s. financial services and mortgage industries as to their long-term impact. 13 homebuilding is subject to warranty and other claims in the ordinary course of business that can be significant. as a homebuilder, we are subject to home warranty, construction defect, and other claims arising in the ordinary course of business. we record warranty and other reserves for the homes we sell based on historical experience in our markets and our judgment of the qualitative risks associated with the types of homes built. we have, and require our subcontractors to have, general liability, property, errors and omissions, workers compensation, and other business insurance. these insurance policies protect us against a portion of our risk of loss from claims, subject to certain self-insured per occurrence and aggregate retentions, deductibles, and available policy limits. we reserve for costs to cover our self-insured and deductible amounts under these policies and for any costs of claims and lawsuits based on an analysis of our historical claims, which includes an estimate of claims incurred but not yet reported. because of the uncertainties inherent in these matters, we cannot provide assurance that our insurance coverage, our subcontractor arrangements, and our reserves will be adequate to address all our warranty and construction defect claims in the future. contractual indemnities can be difficult to enforce, we may be responsible for applicable self-insured retentions, and some types of claims may not be covered by insurance or may exceed applicable coverage limits. additionally, the coverage offered by and the availability of general liability insurance for construction defects are currently costly and limited. we have responded to increases in insurance costs and coverage limitations by increasing our self-insured retentions and claim reserves. there can be no assurance that coverage will not be further restricted or become more costly. additionally, we are exposed to counterparty default risk related to our subcontractors, our insurance carriers, and our subcontractors' insurance carriers. natural disasters and severe weather conditions could delay deliveries, increase costs, and decrease demand for new homes in affected areas. our homebuilding operations are located in many areas that are subject to natural disasters and severe weather. the occurrence of natural disasters or severe weather conditions can delay new home deliveries, increase costs by damaging inventories, reduce the availability of materials, and negatively impact the demand for new homes in affected areas. furthermore, if our insurance does not fully cover business interruptions or losses resulting from these events, our earnings, liquidity, or capital resources could be adversely affected. inflation may result in increased costs that we may not be able to recoup. inflation can have a long-term impact on us because increasing costs of land, materials, and labor may require us to increase the sales prices of homes in order to maintain satisfactory margins. however, we may not be able to raise home prices sufficiently to keep up with the rate of inflation and our margins could decrease. in addition, inflation is often accompanied by higher interest rates, which could have a negative impact on housing demand. information technology failures or data security breaches could harm our business. we use information technology and other computer resources to carry out important operational activities and to maintain our business records. our computer systems, including our back-up systems, are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches (through cyberattacks from computer hackers and sophisticated organizations), catastrophic events such as fires, tornadoes and hurricanes, and usage errors by our associates. if our computer systems and our back-up systems are damaged, breached, or cease to function properly, we could suffer interruptions in our operations or unintentionally allow misappropriation of proprietary or confidential information (including information about our homebuyers and business partners), which could require us to incur significant costs to remediate or otherwise resolve these issues. 14 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are subject to interest rate risk on our rate-sensitive financings to the extent long-term rates decline. the following tables set forth, as of december 31, 2014 and 2013 , our rate-sensitive financing obligations, principal cash flows by scheduled maturity, weighted-average interest rates, and estimated fair value ($000's omitted). as of december 31, 2014 for the years ending december 31, 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 thereafter total fair value rate-sensitive liabilities: fixed interest rate debt: senior notes $ 237,994 $ 465,245 $ 123,000 $ $ $ 1,000,000 $ 1,826,239 $ 1,952,774 average interest rate 5.25 % 6.50 % 7.63 % % % 6.71 % 6.53 % as of december 31, 2013 for the years ending december 31, 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 thereafter total fair value rate-sensitive liabilities: fixed interest rate debt: senior notes $ $ 333,647 $ 465,245 $ 123,000 $ $ 1,150,000 $ 2,071,892 $ 2,070,744 average interest rate % 5.24 % 6.50 % 7.63 % % 6.80 % 6.53 % derivative instruments and hedging activities pulte mortgage is exposed to market risks from commitments to lend, movements in interest rates, and canceled or modified commitments to lend. a commitment to lend at a specific interest rate (an interest rate lock commitment) is a derivative financial instrument (interest rate is locked to the borrower). the interest rate risk continues through the loan closing and until the loan is sold to an investor. we are generally not exposed to variability in cash flows of derivative instruments for more than approximately 75 days. in periods of rising interest rates, the length of exposure will generally increase due to customers locking in an interest rate sooner as opposed to letting the interest rate float. in periods of low or decreasing interest rates, the length of exposure will also generally increase as customers desire to lock before the possibility of rising rates. in order to reduce these risks, we use other derivative financial instruments, principally cash forward placement contracts on mortgage-backed securities and whole loan investor commitments, to economically hedge the interest rate lock commitment. we enter into one of the aforementioned derivative financial instruments upon accepting interest rate lock commitments. changes in the fair value of interest rate lock commitments and the other derivative financial instruments are recognized in financial services revenues. we do not use any derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. hypothetical changes in the fair values of our financial instruments arising from immediate parallel shifts in long-term mortgage rates of 50, 100, and 150 basis points would not be material to our financial results due to the offsetting nature in the movements in fair value of our financial instruments. 41 special notes concerning forward-looking statements as a cautionary note, except for the historical information contained herein, certain matters discussed in item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, and item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk , are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. such forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause our actual results, performance, prospects or opportunities, as well as those of the markets we serve or intend to serve, to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, these statements. you can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate to matters of a strictly factual or historical nature and generally discuss or relate to forecasts, estimates or other expectations regarding future events. generally, the words believe, expect, intend, estimate, anticipate, project, may, can, could, might, will and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, including statements related to expected operating and performing results, planned transactions, planned objectives of management, future developments or conditions in the industries in which we participate and other trends, developments and uncertainties that may affect our business in the future. such risks, uncertainties and other factors include, among other things: interest rate changes and the availability of mortgage financing; continued volatility in the debt and equity markets; competition within the industries in which we operate; the availability and cost of land and other raw materials used by us in our homebuilding operations; the impact of any changes to our strategy in responding to the cyclical nature of the industry, including any changes regarding our land positions; the availability and cost of insurance covering risks associated with our businesses; shortages and the cost of labor; weather related slowdowns; slow growth initiatives and/or local building moratoria; governmental regulation directed at or affecting the housing market, the homebuilding industry or construction activities; uncertainty in the mortgage lending industry, including revisions to underwriting standards and repurchase requirements associated with the sale of mortgage loans; the interpretation of or changes to tax, labor and environmental laws; economic changes nationally or in our local markets, including inflation, deflation, changes in consumer confidence and preferences and the state of the market for homes in general; legal or regulatory proceedings or claims; our ability to generate sufficient cash flow in order to successfully implement our capital allocation priorities; required accounting changes; terrorist acts and other acts of war; and other factors of national, regional and global scale, including those of a political, economic, business and competitive nature. see item 1a risk factors for a further discussion of these and other risks and uncertainties applicable to our businesses. we undertake no duty to update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or changes in our expectations. 42risk factors discussion of our business and operations included in this annual report on form 10-k should be read together with the risk factors set forth below. they describe various risks and uncertainties to which we are, or may become, subject. these risks and uncertainties, together with other factors described elsewhere in this report, have the potential to affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, strategies, or prospects in a material and adverse manner. downward changes in general economic, real estate construction, or other business conditions could adversely affect our business or our financial results. the residential homebuilding industry is sensitive to changes in economic conditions and other factors, such as the level of employment, consumer confidence, consumer income, availability of financing, and interest rate levels. adverse changes in any of these conditions generally, or in the markets where we operate, could decrease demand and pricing for new homes in these areas or result in customer cancellations of pending contracts, which could adversely affect the number of home deliveries we make or reduce the prices we can charge for homes, either of which could result in a decrease in our revenues and earnings and would adversely affect our financial condition. the homebuilding industry experienced a significant downturn from 2006 through 2011. although industry conditions improved beginning in 2012, the overall u.s. economy, while improving, remains challenged and consumer demand in the industry remains volatile. a deterioration in industry conditions could adversely affect our business and results of operations. beginning in 2006 and continuing through 2011, the u.s. housing market was unfavorably impacted by severe weakness in new home sales attributable to, among other factors, weak consumer confidence, tightened mortgage standards, significant foreclosure activity, a more challenging appraisal environment, higher than normal unemployment levels, and significant uncertainty in the global economy. these conditions contributed to sharply weakened demand for new homes and heightened pricing pressures on new and existing home sales. as a result of these factors, we experienced significant decreases in our revenues and profitability during the period 2007 - 2011. we also incurred substantial impairments of our land inventory and certain other assets during this period. since 2011, overall industry new home sales have increased, and we returned to profitability. however, the overall demand for new homes remains below historical levels. accordingly, we can provide no assurances that the adjustments we have made in our operating strategy will be successful. if the market value of our land and homes drops significantly, our profits could decrease. the market value of land, building lots, and housing inventories can fluctuate significantly as a result of changing market conditions, and the measures we employ to manage inventory risk may not be adequate to insulate our operations from a severe drop in inventory values. we acquire land for expansion into new markets and for replacement of land inventory and expansion within our current markets. if housing demand decreases below what we anticipated when we acquired our inventory, we may not be able to make profits similar to what we have made in the past, we may experience less than anticipated profits, and/or we may not be able to recover our costs when we sell and build homes. when market conditions are such that land values are not appreciating, option arrangements previously entered into may become less desirable, at which time we may elect to forego deposits and pre-acquisition costs and terminate the agreement. in the face of adverse market conditions, we may have substantial inventory carrying costs, we may have to write down our inventory to its fair value, and/or we may have to sell land or homes at a loss. supply shortages and other risks related to the demand for skilled labor and building materials could increase costs and delay deliveries. the homebuilding industry is highly competitive for skilled labor and materials. labor shortages in certain of our markets have become more acute in recent quarters as the supply chain adjusts to uneven industry growth. additionally, the cost of certain building materials, especially lumber, steel, concrete, copper, and petroleum-based materials, is influenced by changes in local and global commodity prices. increased costs or shortages of skilled labor and/or materials could cause increases in construction costs and / or construction delays. we may not be able to pass on increases in construction costs to customers and generally are unable to pass on any such increases to customers who have already entered into sales contracts as those sales contracts generally fix the price of the home at the time the contract is signed, which may be well in advance of the construction of the home. sustained increases in construction costs may, over time, erode our margins, and pricing competition may restrict our ability to pass on any such additional costs, thereby decreasing our margins. 9 our success depends on our ability to acquire land suitable for residential homebuilding at reasonable prices, in accordance with our land investment criteria. the homebuilding industry is highly competitive for suitable land. the availability of finished and partially finished developed lots and undeveloped land for purchase that meet our internal criteria depends on a number of factors outside our control, including land availability in general, competition with other homebuilders and land buyers for desirable property, inflation in land prices, zoning, allowable housing density, and other regulatory requirements. should suitable lots or land become less available, the number of homes we may be able to build and sell could be reduced, and the cost of land could be increased, perhaps substantially, which could adversely impact our results of operations. our long-term ability to build homes depends on our acquiring land suitable for residential building at reasonable prices in locations where we want to build. in the past, we experienced significant competition for suitable land as a result of land constraints in many of our markets. as competition for suitable land increases, and as available land is developed, the cost of acquiring suitable remaining land could rise, and the availability of suitable land at acceptable prices may decline. any land shortages or any decrease in the supply of suitable land at reasonable prices could limit our ability to develop new communities or result in increased land costs. we may not be able to pass through to our customers any increased land costs, which could adversely impact our revenues, earnings, and margins. we are subject to claims related to mortgage loans we sold in the secondary mortgage market that may be significant. our mortgage operations may be responsible for losses associated with mortgage loans originated and sold to investors in the event of errors or omissions relating to certain representations and warranties made by us that the loans met certain requirements, including representations as to underwriting standards, the type of collateral, the existence of primary mortgage insurance, and the validity of certain borrower representations in connection with the loan. to date, the significant majority of these losses relate to loans originated in 2006 and 2007, during which period inherently riskier loan products became more common in the origination market. we may also be required to indemnify underwriters that purchased and securitized loans originated by a former subsidiary of centex for losses incurred by investors in those securitized loans based on similar breaches of representations and warranties. the resolution of claims related to alleged breaches of these representations and warranties and repurchase claims could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. given the ongoing volatility in the mortgage industry, changes in values of underlying collateral over time, and other uncertainties regarding the ultimate resolution of these claims, actual costs could differ from our current estimates. accordingly, there can be no assurance that such reserves will not need to be increased in the future. future increases in interest rates, reductions in mortgage availability, or other increases in the effective costs of owning a home could prevent potential customers from buying our homes and adversely affect our business and financial results. a large majority of our customers finance their home purchases through mortgage loans, many through our mortgage bank. interest rates have been near historical lows for several years, which has made new homes more affordable. increases in interest rates or decreases in the availability of mortgage financing could adversely affect the market for new homes. potential homebuyers may be less willing or able to pay the increased monthly costs or to obtain mortgage financing. lenders may increase the qualifications needed for mortgages or adjust their terms to address any increased credit risk. even if potential customers do not need financing, changes in interest rates and mortgage availability could make it harder for them to sell their current homes to potential buyers who need financing. these factors could adversely affect the sales or pricing of our homes and could also reduce the volume or margins in our financial services business. our financial services business could also be impacted to the extent we are unable to match interest rates and amounts on loans we have committed to originate through the various hedging strategies we employ. these developments have had, and may continue to have, a material adverse effect on the overall demand for new housing and thereby on the results of operations for our homebuilding business. we also believe that the availability of fha and va mortgage financing is an important factor in marketing some of our homes. the liquidity provided by fannie mae and freddie mac to the mortgage industry is also critical to the housing market. the impact of the federal government's conservatorship of fannie mae and freddie mac on the short-term and long-term demand for new housing remains unclear. any limitations or restrictions on the availability of financing by these agencies could adversely affect interest rates, mortgage financing, and our sales of new homes and mortgage loans. mortgage interest expense and real estate taxes represent significant costs of homeownership, both of which are generally deductible for an individual's federal and, in some cases, state income taxes. any changes to income tax laws by the 10 federal government or a state government to eliminate or substantially reduce these income tax deductions, as has been considered from time to time, would increase the after-tax cost of owning a home. increases in real estate taxes by local governmental authorities also increase the cost of homeownership. any such increases to the cost of homeownership could adversely impact the demand for and sales prices of new homes. adverse capital and credit market conditions may significantly affect our access to capital and cost of capital. the capital and credit markets can experience significant volatility. we may need credit-related liquidity for the future development of our business. without sufficient liquidity, we may not be able to purchase additional land or develop land, which could adversely affect our financial results. at december 31, 2015 , we had cash and equivalents of $754.2 million , restricted cash totaling $21.3 million , and $308.7 million available under our revolving credit facility, net of outstanding letters of credit. however, our internal sources of liquidity may prove to be insufficient, and in such case, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us, or at all. another source of liquidity includes our ability to use letters of credit and surety bonds pursuant to certain performance-related obligations and as security for certain land option agreements and under various insurance programs. the majority of these letters of credit and surety bonds are in support of our land development and construction obligations to various municipalities, other government agencies, and utility companies related to the construction of roads, sewers, and other infrastructure. at december 31, 2015 , we had outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds totaling $191.3 million and $1.0 billion , respectively. these letters of credit are issued via our unsecured revolving credit facility, which contains certain financial covenants and other limitations. if we are unable to obtain letters of credit or surety bonds when required, or the conditions imposed by issuers increase significantly, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. competition for homebuyers could reduce our deliveries or decrease our profitability. the u.s. housing industry is highly competitive. we compete primarily on the basis of location, price, quality, reputation, design, community amenities, and our customers' overall sales and homeownership experiences. we compete in each of our markets with numerous national, regional, and local homebuilders. this competition with other homebuilders could reduce the number of homes we deliver or cause us to accept reduced margins in order to maintain sales volume. we also compete with resales of existing or foreclosed homes, housing speculators, and available rental housing. increased competitive conditions in the residential resale or rental market in the regions where we operate could decrease demand for new homes or unfavorably impact pricing for new homes. our income tax provision and tax reserves may be insufficient if a taxing authority is successful in asserting positions that are contrary to our interpretations and related reserves, if any. significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes and our reserves for federal, state, and local taxes. in the ordinary course of business, there may be matters for which the ultimate outcome is uncertain. our evaluation of our tax matters is based on a number of factors, including changes in facts or circumstances, changes in tax law, correspondence with tax authorities during the course of audits, and effective settlement of audit issues. although we believe our approach to determining the tax treatment for such items is appropriate, no assurance can be given that the final tax authority review will not be materially different than that which is reflected in our income tax provision and related tax reserves. such differences could have a material adverse effect on our income tax provision in the period in which such determination is made and, consequently, on our financial position, cash flows, or net income for such period. we are periodically audited by various federal, state, and local authorities regarding tax matters. our current audits are in various stages of completion; however, no outcome for a particular audit can be determined with certainty prior to the conclusion of the audit, appeal, and, in some cases, litigation process. as each audit is concluded, adjustments, if any, are recorded in our financial statements in the period determined. to provide for potential tax exposures, we consider a variety of factors, including changes in facts or circumstances, changes in law, correspondence with taxing authorities, and effective settlement of audit issues. if these reserves are insufficient upon completion of an audit, there could be an adverse impact on our financial position, cash flows, and results of operations. 11 we may not realize our deferred income tax assets. as of december 31, 2015 , we had deferred income tax assets, net of deferred tax liabilities, of $1.5 billion , against which we provided a valuation allowance of $109.1 million . the ultimate realization of our deferred income tax assets is dependent upon generating future taxable income and executing tax planning strategies. while we have recorded valuation allowances against certain of our deferred income tax assets, the valuation allowances are subject to change as facts and circumstances change. our ability to utilize net operating losses ( nols ), built-in losses ( bils ), and tax credit carryforwards to offset our future taxable income would be limited if we were to undergo an ownership change within the meaning of section 382 of the internal revenue code (the irc ). in general, an ownership change occurs whenever the percentage of the stock of a corporation owned by 5-percent shareholders (within the meaning of section 382 of the irc) increases by more than 50 percentage points over the lowest percentage of the stock of such corporation owned by such 5-percent shareholders at any time over the testing period. an ownership change under section 382 of the irc would establish an annual limitation to the amount of nols, bils, and tax credit carryforwards we could utilize to offset our taxable income in any single year. the application of these limitations might prevent full utilization of the deferred tax assets attributable to our nols, bils, and tax credit carryforwards. to preserve our ability to utilize nols, bils, and other tax benefits in the future without a section 382 limitation, we adopted a shareholder rights plan, which is triggered upon certain transfers of our securities, and amended our by-laws to prohibit certain transfers of our securities. our shareholder rights plan expires june 1, 2016, unless our board of directors and shareholders approve an amendment to extend the term prior thereto. notwithstanding the foregoing measures, there can be no assurance that we will not undergo an ownership change within the meaning of section 382. as a result of our merger with centex in 2009, our ability to use certain of centex's pre-ownership change nols, bils, and deductions is limited under section 382 of the irc. we do not believe that the section 382 limitation will prevent us from using centex's pre-ownership change federal nols, bils, or deductions, however, no assurance can be given that any such limitation will not occur, which could be material. the value of our deferred tax assets is also dependent upon the tax rates expected to be in effect at the time taxable income is expected to be generated. a decrease in enacted corporate tax rates in our major jurisdictions, especially the u.s. federal corporate tax rate, would decrease the value of our deferred tax assets, which could be material. we have significant intangible assets. if these assets become impaired, then our profits and shareholders' equity may be reduced. we have significant intangible assets related to business combinations. we evaluate the recoverability of intangible assets whenever facts and circumstances indicate the carrying amount may not be recoverable. if the carrying value of intangible assets is deemed impaired, the carrying value is written down to fair value. this would result in a charge to our earnings. if management's expectations of future results and cash flows decrease significantly, impairments of the remaining intangible assets may occur. government regulations could increase the cost and limit the availability of our development and homebuilding projects or affect our related financial services operations and adversely affect our business or financial results. our operations are subject to building, environmental, and other regulations imposed and enforced by various federal, state, and local governing authorities. new housing developments may also be subject to various assessments for schools, parks, streets, and other public improvements. these can cause an increase in the effective cost of our homes. we also are subject to a variety of local, state, and federal laws and regulations concerning protection of health, safety, and the environment. the impact of environmental laws varies depending upon the prior uses of the building site or adjoining properties and may be greater in areas with less supply where undeveloped land or desirable alternatives are less available. these matters may result in delays, may cause us to incur substantial compliance, remediation and other costs, and can prohibit or severely restrict development and homebuilding activity in environmentally sensitive regions or areas. more stringent requirements could be imposed in the future on homebuilders and developers, thereby increasing the cost of compliance. our financial services operations are also subject to numerous federal, state, and local laws and regulations. these include eligibility requirements for participation in federal loan programs and compliance with consumer lending and similar 12 requirements such as disclosure requirements, prohibitions against discrimination, and real estate settlement procedures. they also subject our operations to examination by applicable agencies, pursuant to which those agencies may limit our ability to provide mortgage financing or title services to potential purchasers of our homes. for our homes to qualify for fha or va mortgages, we must satisfy valuation standards and site, material, and construction requirements of those agencies. in january 2013, the consumer financial protection bureau ("cfpb") adopted new rules regarding the origination of mortgages, including the criteria for qualified mortgages , rules for lender practices regarding assessing borrowers' ability to repay, and limitations on certain fees and incentive arrangements. such rules went into effect in january 2014. the cfpb also issued the tila-respa integrated disclosure ("trid") rules, which combined the mortgage disclosures consumers receive under the truth in lending act ("tila") and the real estate settlement and procedures act ("respa"). such rules went into effect in october 2015. while we have adjusted our operations to comply with the new rules, the impact such rules will have on our business remains unclear. additionally, certain other rules required by the dodd-frank act of 2010 have not yet been completed or implemented, which has created uncertainty in the overall u.s. financial services and mortgage industries as to their long-term impact. homebuilding is subject to warranty and other claims in the ordinary course of business that can be significant. as a homebuilder, we are subject to home warranty, construction defect, and other claims arising in the ordinary course of business. we record warranty and other reserves for the homes we sell based on historical experience in our markets and our judgment of the qualitative risks associated with the types of homes built. we have, and require our subcontractors to have, general liability, property, errors and omissions, workers compensation, and other business insurance. these insurance policies protect us against a portion of our risk of loss from claims, subject to certain self-insured per occurrence and aggregate retentions, deductibles, and available policy limits. in certain instances, we may offer our subcontractors the opportunity to purchase insurance through one of our captive insurance subsidiaries or participate in a project-specific insurance program provided by us. policies issued by our captive insurance subsidiaries represent self-insurance of these risks by us. we reserve for costs to cover our self-insured and deductible amounts under these policies and for any costs of claims and lawsuits based on an analysis of our historical claims, which includes an estimate of claims incurred but not yet reported. because of the uncertainties inherent in these matters, we cannot provide assurance that our insurance coverage, our subcontractor arrangements, and our reserves will be adequate to address all our warranty and construction defect claims in the future. contractual indemnities can be difficult to enforce, we may be responsible for applicable self-insured retentions, and some types of claims may not be covered by insurance or may exceed applicable coverage limits. additionally, the coverage offered by and the availability of general liability insurance for construction defects are currently costly and limited. we have responded to increases in insurance costs and coverage limitations by increasing our self-insured retentions and claim reserves. there can be no assurance that coverage will not be further restricted or become more costly. additionally, we are exposed to counterparty default risk related to our subcontractors, our insurance carriers, and our subcontractors' insurance carriers. natural disasters and severe weather conditions could delay deliveries, increase costs, and decrease demand for new homes in affected areas. our homebuilding operations are located in many areas that are subject to natural disasters and severe weather. the occurrence of natural disasters or severe weather conditions can delay new home deliveries, increase costs by damaging inventories, reduce the availability of materials, and negatively impact the demand for new homes in affected areas. furthermore, if our insurance does not fully cover business interruptions or losses resulting from these events, our earnings, liquidity, or capital resources could be adversely affected. inflation may result in increased costs that we may not be able to recoup. inflation can have a long-term impact on us because increasing costs of land, materials, and labor may require us to increase the sales prices of homes in order to maintain satisfactory margins. however, we may not be able to raise home prices sufficiently to keep up with the rate of inflation and our margins could decrease. in addition, inflation is often accompanied by higher interest rates, which could have a negative impact on housing demand. information technology failures or data security breaches could harm our business. we use information technology and other computer resources to carry out important operational activities and to maintain our business records. our computer systems, including our back-up systems, are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches (through cyberattacks from computer hackers and sophisticated organizations), catastrophic events such as fires, tornadoes and hurricanes, and usage 13 errors by our associates. if our computer systems and our back-up systems are damaged, breached, or cease to function properly, we could suffer interruptions in our operations or unintentionally allow misappropriation of proprietary or confidential information (including information about our homebuyers and business partners), which could require us to incur significant costs to remediate or otherwise resolve these issues. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are subject to market risk on our debt instruments primarily due to fluctuations in interest rates. we utilize both fixed-rate and variable-rate debt. for fixed-rate debt, changes in interest rates generally affect the fair value of the debt instrument but not our earnings or cash flows. conversely, for variable-rate debt, changes in interest rates generally do not affect the fair value of the debt instrument but could affect our earnings and cash flows. except in very limited circumstances, we do not have an obligation to prepay fixed-rate debt prior to maturity. as a result, interest rate risk and changes in fair value should not have a significant impact on our fixed-rate debt until we are required or elect to refinance or repurchase such debt. the following tables set forth the principal cash flows by scheduled maturity, weighted-average interest rates, and estimated fair value of our debt obligations as of december 31, 2015 and 2014 ($000's omitted). as of december 31, 2015 for the years ending december 31, 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 thereafter total fair value rate-sensitive liabilities: fixed rate debt $ 487,485 $ 128,296 $ $ 3,900 $ 3,900 $ 1,000,000 $ 1,623,581 $ 1,678,987 average interest rate 6.24 % 7.00 % % 5.00 % 5.00 % 6.71 % 6.57 % variable rate debt (a) $ 267,877 $ 500,000 $ $ $ $ $ 767,877 $ 767,877 average interest rate 2.65 % 1.42 % % % % % 1.85 % as of december 31, 2014 for the years ending december 31, 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 thereafter total fair value rate-sensitive liabilities: fixed rate debt $ 239,203 $ 488,610 $ 129,433 $ $ 3,900 $ 1,003,900 $ 1,865,046 $ 1,975,029 average interest rate 5.22 % 6.24 % 7.44 % % 5.00 % 6.71 % 6.44 % variable rate debt (a) $ 140,241 $ $ $ $ $ $ 140,241 $ 140,241 average interest rate 2.70 % % % % % % 2.70 % (a) includes the pulte mortgage repurchase agreement and the term loan. does not include our revolving credit facility, under which there were no borrowings outstanding at either december 31, 2015 or 2014. derivative instruments and hedging activities pulte mortgage is exposed to market risks from commitments to lend, movements in interest rates, and canceled or modified commitments to lend. a commitment to lend at a specific interest rate (an interest rate lock commitment) is a derivative financial instrument (interest rate is locked to the borrower). the interest rate risk continues through the loan closing and until the loan is sold to an investor. we are generally not exposed to variability in cash flows of derivative instruments for more than approximately 75 days. in periods of rising interest rates, the length of exposure will generally increase due to customers locking in an interest rate sooner as opposed to letting the interest rate float. in periods of low or decreasing interest rates, the length of exposure will also generally increase as customers desire to lock before the possibility of rising rates. in order to reduce these risks, we use other derivative financial instruments, principally cash forward placement contracts on mortgage-backed securities and whole loan investor commitments, to economically hedge the interest rate lock commitment. we generally enter into one of the aforementioned derivative financial instruments upon accepting interest rate lock commitments. changes in the fair value of interest rate lock commitments and the other derivative financial instruments are recognized in financial services revenues. we do not use any derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. at december 31, 2015 and 2014 , residential mortgage loans available-for-sale had an aggregate fair value of $442.7 million and $339.5 million , respectively. at december 31, 2015 and 2014 , we had aggregate interest rate lock commitments of $208.2 million and $146.1 million , respectively, which were originated at interest rates prevailing at the date of commitment. unexpired forward contracts totaled $525.0 million and $371.0 million at december 31, 2015 and 2014 , respectively, and 40 whole loan investor commitments totaled $77.6 million and $63.5 million , respectively, at such dates. hypothetical changes in the fair values of our financial instruments arising from immediate parallel shifts in long-term mortgage rates would not be material to our financial results due to the offsetting nature in the movements in fair value of our financial instruments. special notes concerning forward-looking statements as a cautionary note, except for the historical information contained herein, certain matters discussed in item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, and item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk , are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. such forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause our actual results, performance, prospects or opportunities, as well as those of the markets we serve or intend to serve, to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, these statements. you can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate to matters of a strictly factual or historical nature and generally discuss or relate to forecasts, estimates or other expectations regarding future events. generally, the words believe, expect, intend, estimate, anticipate, project, may, can, could, might, will and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, including statements related to expected operating and performing results, planned transactions, planned objectives of management, future developments or conditions in the industries in which we participate and other trends, developments and uncertainties that may affect our business in the future. such risks, uncertainties and other factors include, among other things: interest rate changes and the availability of mortgage financing; continued volatility in the debt and equity markets; competition within the industries in which we operate; the availability and cost of land and other raw materials used by us in our homebuilding operations; the impact of any changes to our strategy in responding to the cyclical nature of the industry, including any changes regarding our land positions; the availability and cost of insurance covering risks associated with our businesses; shortages and the cost of labor; weather related slowdowns; slow growth initiatives and/or local building moratoria; governmental regulation directed at or affecting the housing market, the homebuilding industry or construction activities; uncertainty in the mortgage lending industry, including revisions to underwriting standards and repurchase requirements associated with the sale of mortgage loans; the interpretation of or changes to tax, labor and environmental laws; economic changes nationally or in our local markets, including inflation, deflation, changes in consumer confidence and preferences and the state of the market for homes in general; legal or regulatory proceedings or claims; our ability to generate sufficient cash flow in order to successfully implement our capital allocation priorities; required accounting changes; terrorist acts and other acts of war; and other factors of national, regional and global scale, including those of a political, economic, business and competitive nature. see item 1a risk factors for a further discussion of these and other risks and uncertainties applicable to our businesses. we undertake no duty to update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or changes in our expectations. 41risk factors discussion of our business and operations included in this annual report on form 10-k should be read together with the risk factors set forth below. they describe various risks and uncertainties to which we are, or may become, subject. these risks and uncertainties, together with other factors described elsewhere in this report, have the potential to affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, strategies, or prospects in a material and adverse manner. the homebuilding industry is cyclical and a deterioration in industry conditions or downward changes in general economic or other business conditions could adversely affect our business or our financial results. the residential homebuilding industry is sensitive to changes in economic conditions and other factors, such as the level of employment, consumer confidence, consumer income, availability of financing, and interest rate levels. adverse changes in any of these conditions generally, or in the markets where we operate, could decrease demand and pricing for new homes in these areas or result in customer cancellations of pending contracts, which could adversely affect the number of home deliveries we make or reduce the prices we can charge for homes, either of which could result in a decrease in our revenues and earnings that could adversely affect our financial condition. beginning in 2006 and continuing through 2011, the u.s. housing market was unfavorably impacted by severe weakness in new home sales attributable to, among other factors, weak consumer confidence, tightened mortgage standards, significant foreclosure activity, a more challenging appraisal environment, higher than normal unemployment levels, and significant uncertainty in the global economy. during this period, we incurred significant losses, including impairments of our land inventory and certain other assets. since 2011, overall industry new home sales have increased, and we returned to profitability beginning in 2012. however, the overall demand for new homes remains below historical levels. accordingly, we can provide no assurances that the adjustments we have made in our operating strategy will be successful if the current housing market was to deteriorate significantly. if the market value of our land and homes drops significantly, our profits could decrease. the market value of land, building lots, and housing inventories can fluctuate significantly as a result of changing market conditions, and the measures we employ to manage inventory risk may not be adequate to insulate our operations from a severe drop in inventory values. we acquire land for expansion into new markets and for replacement of land inventory and expansion within our current markets. if housing demand decreases below what we anticipated when we acquired our inventory, we may not be able to make profits similar to what we have made in the past, we may experience less than anticipated profits, and/or we may not be able to recover our costs when we sell and build homes. when market conditions are such that land values are not appreciating, option arrangements previously entered into may become less desirable, at which time we may elect to forego deposits and pre-acquisition costs and terminate the agreement. in the face of adverse market conditions, we may have substantial inventory carrying costs, we may have to write down our inventory to its fair value, and/or we may have to sell land or homes at a loss. supply shortages and other risks related to the demand for skilled labor and building materials could increase costs and delay deliveries. the homebuilding industry is highly competitive for skilled labor and materials. labor shortages in certain of our markets have become more acute in recent years as the supply chain adjusts to uneven industry growth. additionally, the cost of certain building materials, especially lumber, steel, concrete, copper, and petroleum-based materials, is influenced by changes in local and global commodity prices. increased costs or shortages of skilled labor and/or materials could cause increases in construction costs and / or construction delays. we may not be able to pass on increases in construction costs to customers and generally are unable to pass on any such increases to customers who have already entered into sales contracts as those sales contracts generally fix the price of the home at the time the contract is signed, which may be well in advance of the construction of the home. sustained increases in construction costs may, over time, erode our margins, and pricing competition may restrict our ability to pass on any such additional costs, thereby decreasing our margins. 9 our success depends on our ability to acquire land suitable for residential homebuilding at reasonable prices, in accordance with our land investment criteria. the homebuilding industry is highly competitive for suitable land. the availability of finished and partially finished developed lots and undeveloped land for purchase that meet our internal criteria depends on a number of factors outside our control, including land availability in general, competition with other homebuilders and land buyers for desirable property, inflation in land prices, zoning, allowable housing density, and other regulatory requirements. should suitable lots or land become less available, the number of homes we may be able to build and sell could be reduced, and the cost of land could be increased, perhaps substantially, which could adversely impact our results of operations. our long-term ability to build homes depends on our acquiring land suitable for residential building at reasonable prices in locations where we want to build. in the past, we experienced significant competition for suitable land as a result of land constraints in many of our markets. as competition for suitable land increases, and as available land is developed, the cost of acquiring suitable remaining land could rise, and the availability of suitable land at acceptable prices may decline. any land shortages or any decrease in the supply of suitable land at reasonable prices could limit our ability to develop new communities or result in increased land costs. we may not be able to pass through to our customers any increased land costs, which could adversely impact our revenues, earnings, and margins. we are subject to claims related to mortgage loans we sold in the secondary mortgage market that may be significant. our mortgage operations may be responsible for losses associated with mortgage loans originated and sold to investors in the event of errors or omissions relating to certain representations and warranties made by us that the loans met certain requirements, including representations as to underwriting standards, the type of collateral, the existence of primary mortgage insurance, and the validity of certain borrower representations in connection with the loan. to date, the significant majority of these losses relate to loans originated in 2006 and 2007, during which period inherently riskier loan products became more common in the origination market. we may also be required to indemnify underwriters that purchased and securitized loans originated by a former subsidiary of centex corporation ("centex"), which we acquired in 2009, for losses incurred by investors in those securitized loans based on similar breaches of representations and warranties. the resolution of claims related to alleged breaches of these representations and warranties and repurchase claims could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. given the ongoing volatility in the mortgage industry, changes in values of underlying collateral over time, and other uncertainties regarding the ultimate resolution of these claims, actual costs could differ from our current estimates. accordingly, there can be no assurance that such reserves will not need to be increased in the future. future increases in interest rates, reductions in mortgage availability, or other increases in the effective costs of owning a home could prevent potential customers from buying our homes and adversely affect our business and financial results. a large majority of our customers finance their home purchases through mortgage loans, many through our mortgage bank. while mortgage interest rates have increased moderately, they have been near historical lows for several years, which has made new homes more affordable. increases in interest rates or decreases in the availability of mortgage financing could adversely affect the market for new homes. potential homebuyers may be less willing or able to pay the increased monthly costs or to obtain mortgage financing. lenders may increase the qualifications needed for mortgages or adjust their terms to address any increased credit risk. even if potential customers do not need financing, changes in interest rates and mortgage availability could make it harder for them to sell their current homes to potential buyers who need financing. these factors could adversely affect the sales or pricing of our homes and could also reduce the volume or margins in our financial services business. our financial services business could also be impacted to the extent we are unable to match interest rates and amounts on loans we have committed to originate through the various hedging strategies we employ. these developments have had, and may continue to have, a material adverse effect on the overall demand for new housing and thereby on the results of operations for our homebuilding business. the liquidity provided by fannie mae and freddie mac to the mortgage industry is also critical to the housing market. the impact of the federal government's conservatorship of fannie mae and freddie mac on the short-term and long-term demand for new housing remains unclear. any limitations or restrictions on the availability of financing by these agencies could adversely affect interest rates, mortgage financing, and our sales of new homes and mortgage loans. additionally, the availability of fha and va mortgage financing is an important factor in marketing some of our homes. 10 mortgage interest expense and real estate taxes represent significant costs of homeownership, both of which are generally deductible for an individual's federal and, in some cases, state income taxes. any changes to income tax laws by the federal government or a state government to eliminate or substantially reduce these income tax deductions, as has been considered from time to time, would increase the after-tax cost of owning a home. increases in real estate taxes by local governmental authorities also increase the cost of homeownership. any such increases to the cost of homeownership could adversely impact the demand for and sales prices of new homes. adverse capital and credit market conditions may significantly affect our access to capital and cost of capital. the capital and credit markets can experience significant volatility. we may need credit-related liquidity for the future development of our business and other capital needs. without sufficient liquidity, we may not be able to purchase additional land or develop land, which could adversely affect our financial results. at december 31, 2016 , we had cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash of $723.2 million as well as $530.9 million available under our revolving credit facility, net of outstanding letters of credit. however, our internal sources of liquidity and revolving credit facility may prove to be insufficient, and in such case, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us, or at all. another source of liquidity includes our ability to use letters of credit and surety bonds pursuant to certain performance-related obligations and as security for certain land option agreements and under various insurance programs. the majority of these letters of credit and surety bonds are in support of our land development and construction obligations to various municipalities, other government agencies, and utility companies related to the construction of roads, sewers, and other infrastructure. at december 31, 2016 , we had outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds totaling $219.1 million and $1.1 billion , respectively. these letters of credit are issued via our unsecured revolving credit facility, which contains certain financial covenants and other limitations. if we are unable to obtain letters of credit or surety bonds when required, or the conditions imposed by issuers increase significantly, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. competition for homebuyers could reduce our deliveries or decrease our profitability. the u.s. housing industry is highly competitive. we compete primarily on the basis of location, price, quality, reputation, design, community amenities, and our customers' overall sales and homeownership experiences. we compete in each of our markets with numerous national, regional, and local homebuilders. this competition with other homebuilders could reduce the number of homes we deliver or cause us to accept reduced margins in order to maintain sales volume. we also compete with resales of existing or foreclosed homes, housing speculators, and available rental housing. increased competitive conditions in the residential resale or rental market in the regions where we operate could decrease demand for new homes or unfavorably impact pricing for new homes. our income tax provision and tax reserves may be insufficient if a taxing authority is successful in asserting positions that are contrary to our interpretations and related reserves, if any. significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes and our reserves for federal, state, and local taxes. in the ordinary course of business, there may be matters for which the ultimate outcome is uncertain. our evaluation of our tax matters is based on a number of factors, including changes in facts or circumstances, changes in tax law, correspondence with tax authorities during the course of audits, and effective settlement of audit issues. although we believe our approach to determining the tax treatment for such items is appropriate, no assurance can be given that the final tax authority review will not be materially different than that which is reflected in our income tax provision and related tax reserves. such differences could have a material adverse effect on our income tax provision in the period in which such determination is made and, consequently, on our financial position, cash flows, or net income. we are periodically audited by various federal, state, and local authorities regarding tax matters. our current audits are in various stages of completion; however, no outcome for a particular audit can be determined with certainty prior to the conclusion of the audit, appeal, and, in some cases, litigation process. as each audit is concluded, adjustments, if any, are recorded in our financial statements in the period determined. to provide for potential tax exposures, we consider a variety of factors, including changes in facts or circumstances, changes in law, correspondence with taxing authorities, and effective settlement of audit issues. if these reserves are insufficient upon completion of an audit, there could be an adverse impact on our financial position, cash flows, and results of operations. 11 we may not realize our deferred tax assets. as of december 31, 2016 , we had deferred tax assets, net of deferred tax liabilities, of $1.1 billion , against which we provided a valuation allowance of $64.9 million . the ultimate realization of our deferred tax assets is dependent upon generating future taxable income. while we have recorded valuation allowances against certain of our deferred tax assets, the valuation allowances are subject to change as facts and circumstances change. our ability to utilize net operating losses ( nols ), built-in losses ( bils ), and tax credit carryforwards to offset our future taxable income or income tax would be limited if we were to undergo an ownership change within the meaning of section 382 of the internal revenue code (the irc ). in general, an ownership change occurs whenever the percentage of the stock of a corporation owned by 5-percent shareholders (within the meaning of section 382 of the irc) increases by more than 50 percentage points over the lowest percentage of the stock of such corporation owned by such 5-percent shareholders at any time over the testing period. an ownership change under section 382 of the irc would establish an annual limitation to the amount of nols, bils, and tax credit carryforwards we could utilize to offset our taxable income or income tax in any single year. the application of these limitations might prevent full utilization of the deferred tax assets attributable to our nols, bils, and tax credit carryforwards. to preserve our ability to utilize nols, bils, and other tax benefits in the future without a section 382 limitation, we adopted a shareholder rights plan, which is triggered upon certain transfers of our securities, and amended our by-laws to prohibit certain transfers of our securities. our shareholder rights plan, as amended, expires june 1, 2019, unless our board of directors and shareholders approve an amendment to extend the term prior thereto. notwithstanding the foregoing measures, there can be no assurance that we will not undergo an ownership change within the meaning of section 382. our ability to use certain of centex's federal losses and credits is limited under section 382 of the irc. we do not believe that the section 382 limitations will prevent us from utilizing these centex losses and credits. we do believe that full utilization of certain state nol carryforwards will be limited due to section 382. the value of our deferred tax assets is also dependent upon the tax rates expected to be in effect at the time taxable income is expected to be generated. a decrease in enacted corporate tax rates in our major jurisdictions, especially the u.s. federal corporate tax rate, would decrease the value of our deferred tax assets, which could be material. we have significant intangible assets. if these assets become impaired, then our profits and shareholders' equity may be reduced. we have significant intangible assets related to business combinations. we evaluate the recoverability of intangible assets whenever facts and circumstances indicate the carrying amount may not be recoverable. if the carrying value of intangible assets is deemed impaired, the carrying value is written down to fair value. this would result in a charge to our earnings. if management's expectations of future results and cash flows decrease significantly, impairments of the remaining intangible assets may occur. government regulations could increase the cost and limit the availability of our development and homebuilding projects or affect our related financial services operations and adversely affect our business or financial results. our operations are subject to building, environmental, and other regulations imposed and enforced by various federal, state, and local governing authorities. new housing developments may also be subject to various assessments for schools, parks, streets, and other public improvements. these can cause an increase in the effective cost of our homes. we also are subject to a variety of local, state, and federal laws and regulations concerning protection of health, safety, and the environment. the impact of environmental laws varies depending upon the prior uses of the building site or adjoining properties and may be greater in areas with less supply where undeveloped land or desirable alternatives are less available. these matters may result in delays, may cause us to incur substantial compliance, remediation and other costs, and can prohibit or severely restrict development and homebuilding activity in environmentally sensitive regions or areas. more stringent requirements could be imposed in the future on homebuilders and developers, thereby increasing the cost of compliance. our financial services operations are also subject to numerous federal, state, and local laws and regulations. these include eligibility requirements for participation in federal loan programs and compliance with consumer lending and similar requirements such as disclosure requirements, prohibitions against discrimination, and real estate settlement procedures. they also subject our operations to examination by applicable agencies, pursuant to which those agencies may limit our ability to 12 provide mortgage financing or title services to potential purchasers of our homes. for our homes to qualify for fha or va mortgages, we must satisfy valuation standards and site, material, and construction requirements of those agencies. homebuilding is subject to warranty and other claims in the ordinary course of business that can be significant. as a homebuilder, we are subject to home warranty, construction defect, and other claims arising in the ordinary course of business. we record warranty and other reserves for the homes we sell based on historical experience in our markets and our judgment of the qualitative risks associated with the types of homes built. we have, and require our subcontractors to have, general liability, property, errors and omissions, workers compensation, and other business insurance. these insurance policies protect us against a portion of our risk of loss from claims, subject to certain self-insured per occurrence and aggregate retentions, deductibles, and available policy limits. in certain instances, we may offer our subcontractors the opportunity to purchase insurance through one of our captive insurance subsidiaries or participate in a project-specific insurance program provided by us. policies issued by our captive insurance subsidiaries represent self-insurance of these risks by us. we reserve for costs to cover our self-insured and deductible amounts under these policies and for any costs of claims and lawsuits based on an analysis of our historical claims, which includes an estimate of claims incurred but not yet reported. because of the uncertainties inherent in these matters, we cannot provide assurance that our insurance coverage, our subcontractor arrangements, and our reserves will be adequate to address all our warranty and construction defect claims in the future. contractual indemnities can be difficult to enforce, we may be responsible for applicable self-insured retentions, and some types of claims may not be covered by insurance or may exceed applicable coverage limits. additionally, the coverage offered by and the availability of general liability insurance for construction defects are currently costly and limited. we have responded to increases in insurance costs and coverage limitations by increasing our self-insured retentions and claim reserves. there can be no assurance that coverage will not be further restricted or become more costly. additionally, we are exposed to counterparty default risk related to our subcontractors, our insurance carriers, and our subcontractors' insurance carriers. natural disasters and severe weather conditions could delay deliveries, increase costs, and decrease demand for new homes in affected areas. our homebuilding operations are located in many areas that are subject to natural disasters and severe weather. the occurrence of natural disasters or severe weather conditions can delay new home deliveries, increase costs by damaging inventories, reduce the availability of materials, and negatively impact the demand for new homes in affected areas. furthermore, if our insurance does not fully cover business interruptions or losses resulting from these events, our earnings, liquidity, or capital resources could be adversely affected. inflation may result in increased costs that we may not be able to recoup. inflation can have a long-term impact on us because increasing costs of land, materials, and labor may require us to increase the sales prices of homes in order to maintain satisfactory margins. however, we may not be able to raise home prices sufficiently to keep up with the rate of inflation and our margins could decrease. in addition, inflation is often accompanied by higher interest rates, which could have a negative impact on housing demand. information technology failures or data security breaches could harm our business. we use information technology and other computer resources to carry out important operational activities and to maintain our business records. our computer systems, including our back-up systems, are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches (through cyberattacks from computer hackers and sophisticated organizations), catastrophic events such as fires, tornadoes and hurricanes, and usage errors by our associates. if our computer systems and our back-up systems are damaged, breached, or cease to function properly, we could suffer interruptions in our operations or unintentionally allow misappropriation of proprietary or confidential information (including information about our homebuyers and business partners), which could require us to incur significant costs to remediate or otherwise resolve these issues. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are subject to market risk on our debt instruments primarily due to fluctuations in interest rates. we utilize both fixed-rate and variable-rate debt. for fixed-rate debt, changes in interest rates generally affect the fair value of the debt instrument but not our earnings or cash flows. conversely, for variable-rate debt, changes in interest rates generally do not affect the fair value of the debt instrument but could affect our earnings and cash flows. except in very limited circumstances, we do not have an obligation to prepay our debt prior to maturity. as a result, interest rate risk and changes in fair value should not have a significant impact on our fixed-rate debt until we are required or elect to refinance or repurchase such debt. the following tables set forth the principal cash flows by scheduled maturity, weighted-average interest rates, and estimated fair value of our debt obligations as of december 31, 2016 and 2015 ($000's omitted). as of december 31, 2016 for the years ending december 31, 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 thereafter total fair value rate-sensitive liabilities: fixed rate debt $ 134,482 $ $ 3,900 $ 3,900 $ 700,000 $ 2,300,000 $ 3,142,282 $ 3,131,579 average interest rate 7.12 % % 5.00 % 5.00 % 4.25 % 7.19 % 5.58 % variable rate debt (a) $ 331,621 $ $ $ $ $ $ 331,621 $ 331,621 average interest rate 2.89 % % % % % % 2.89 % as of december 31, 2015 for the years ending december 31, 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 thereafter total fair value rate-sensitive liabilities: fixed rate debt $ 487,485 $ 128,296 $ $ 3,900 $ 3,900 $ 1,000,000 $ 1,623,581 $ 1,678,987 average interest rate 6.24 % 7.00 % % 5.00 % 5.00 % 6.71 % 6.57 % variable rate debt (a) $ 267,877 $ 500,000 $ $ $ $ $ 767,877 $ 767,877 average interest rate 2.65 % 1.42 % % % % % 1.85 % (a) includes the pulte mortgage repurchase agreement and the term loan, which was retired in 2016. does not include our revolving credit facility, under which there were no borrowings outstanding at either december 31, 2016 or 2015 . derivative instruments and hedging activities pulte mortgage is exposed to market risks from commitments to lend, movements in interest rates, and canceled or modified commitments to lend. a commitment to lend at a specific interest rate (an interest rate lock commitment) is a derivative financial instrument (interest rate is locked to the borrower). the interest rate risk continues through the loan closing and until the loan is sold to an investor. we are generally not exposed to variability in cash flows of derivative instruments for more than approximately 90 days. in periods of rising interest rates, the length of exposure will generally increase due to customers locking in an interest rate sooner as opposed to letting the interest rate float. in periods of low or decreasing interest rates, the length of exposure will also generally increase as customers desire to lock before the possibility of rising rates. in order to reduce these risks, we use other derivative financial instruments, principally cash forward placement contracts on mortgage-backed securities and whole loan investor commitments, to economically hedge the interest rate lock commitment. we generally enter into one of the aforementioned derivative financial instruments upon accepting interest rate lock commitments. changes in the fair value of interest rate lock commitments and the other derivative financial instruments are recognized in financial services revenues. we do not use any derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. at december 31, 2016 and 2015 , residential mortgage loans available-for-sale had an aggregate fair value of $539.5 million and $442.7 million , respectively. at december 31, 2016 and 2015 , we had aggregate interest rate lock commitments of $273.9 million and $208.2 million , respectively, which were originated at interest rates prevailing at the date of commitment. unexpired forward contracts totaled $610.0 million and $525.0 million at december 31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively, and 41 whole loan investor commitments totaled $157.6 million and $77.6 million , respectively, at such dates. hypothetical changes in the fair values of our financial instruments arising from immediate parallel shifts in long-term mortgage rates would not be material to our financial results due to the offsetting nature in the movements in fair value of our financial instruments. special notes concerning forward-looking statements as a cautionary note, except for the historical information contained herein, certain matters discussed in item 2, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, and item 3, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk , are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. such forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause our actual results, performance, prospects or opportunities, as well as those of the markets we serve or intend to serve, to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, these statements. you can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate to matters of a strictly factual or historical nature and generally discuss or relate to forecasts, estimates or other expectations regarding future events. generally, the words believe, expect, intend, estimate, anticipate, plan, project, may, can, could, might, "should", will and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, including statements related to expected operating and performing results, planned transactions, planned objectives of management, future developments or conditions in the industries in which we participate and other trends, developments and uncertainties that may affect our business in the future. such risks, uncertainties and other factors include, among other things: interest rate changes and the availability of mortgage financing; competition within the industries in which we operate; the availability and cost of land and other raw materials used by us in our homebuilding operations; the impact of any changes to our strategy in responding to the cyclical nature of the industry, including any changes regarding our land positions and the levels of our land spend; the availability and cost of insurance covering risks associated with our businesses; shortages and the cost of labor; weather related slowdowns; slow growth initiatives and/or local building moratoria; governmental regulation directed at or affecting the housing market, the homebuilding industry or construction activities; uncertainty in the mortgage lending industry, including revisions to underwriting standards and repurchase requirements associated with the sale of mortgage loans; the interpretation of or changes to tax, labor and environmental laws; economic changes nationally or in our local markets, including inflation, deflation, changes in consumer confidence and preferences and the state of the market for homes in general; legal or regulatory proceedings or claims; our ability to generate sufficient cash flow in order to successfully implement our capital allocation priorities; required accounting changes; terrorist acts and other acts of war; and other factors of national, regional and global scale, including those of a political, economic, business and competitive nature. see item 1a risk factors for a further discussion of these and other risks and uncertainties applicable to our businesses. we undertake no duty to update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or changes in our expectations. 42risk factors discussion of our business and operations included in this annual report on form 10-k should be read together with the risk factors set forth below. they describe various risks and uncertainties to which we are, or may become, subject. these risks and uncertainties, together with other factors described elsewhere in this report, have the potential to affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, strategies, or prospects in a material and adverse manner. the homebuilding industry is cyclical and a deterioration in industry conditions or downward changes in general economic or other business conditions could adversely affect our business or our financial results. the residential homebuilding industry is sensitive to changes in economic conditions and other factors, such as the level of employment, consumer confidence, consumer income, availability of financing, and interest rate levels. adverse changes in any of these conditions generally, or in the markets where we operate, could decrease demand and pricing for new homes in these areas or result in customer cancellations of pending contracts, which could adversely affect the number of home deliveries we make or reduce the prices we can charge for homes, either of which could result in a decrease in our revenues and earnings that could adversely affect our financial condition. beginning in 2006 and continuing through 2011, the u.s. housing market was unfavorably impacted by severe weakness in new home sales attributable to, among other factors, weak consumer confidence, tightened mortgage standards, significant foreclosure activity, a more challenging appraisal environment, higher than normal unemployment levels, and significant uncertainty in the global economy. during this period, we incurred significant losses, including impairments of our land inventory and certain other assets. since 2011, overall industry new home sales have increased, and we returned to profitability beginning in 2012. however, the recovery in housing demand has been slow by historical standards and the adjustments we have made to our operating strategy may not be successful if the current housing market were to deteriorate significantly. if the market value of our land and homes drops significantly, our profits could decrease and result in write-downs of the carrying values of land we own. the market value of land, building lots, and housing inventories can fluctuate significantly as a result of changing market conditions, and the measures we employ to manage inventory risk may not be adequate to insulate our operations from a severe drop in inventory values. we acquire land for expansion into new markets and for replacement of land inventory and expansion within our current markets. if housing demand decreases below what we anticipated when we acquired our inventory, we may not be able to make profits similar to what we have made in the past, we may experience less than anticipated profits, and/or we may not be able to recover our costs when we sell and build homes. when market conditions are such that land values are not appreciating, option arrangements previously entered into may become less desirable, at which time we may elect to forego deposits and pre-acquisition costs and terminate the agreement. in the face of adverse market conditions, we may have substantial inventory carrying costs, we may have to write down our inventory to its fair value, and/or we may have to sell land or homes at a loss. at times we have been required to record significant write-downs of the carrying value of our land inventory, and we have elected not to exercise options to purchase land, even though that required us to forfeit deposits and write-off pre-acquisition costs. although we have taken efforts to reduce our exposure to costs of that type, a certain amount of exposure is inherent in our homebuilding business. if market conditions were to deteriorate in the future, we could again be required to record significant write downs to our land inventory, which would decrease the asset values reflected on our balance sheet and adversely affect our earnings and our stockholders' equity. supply shortages and other risks related to the demand for skilled labor and building materials could increase costs and delay deliveries. the homebuilding industry is highly competitive for skilled labor and materials. labor shortages in certain of our markets have become more acute in recent years as the supply chain adjusts to uneven industry growth. additionally, the cost of certain building materials, especially lumber, steel, concrete, copper, and petroleum-based materials, is influenced by changes in local and global commodity prices as well as government regulation. during 2017, we experienced increases in the prices of some building materials and shortages of skilled labor in some areas. increased costs or shortages of skilled labor and/or materials could cause increases in construction costs and/or construction delays. we may not be able to pass on increases in construction costs to customers and generally are unable to pass on any such increases to customers who have already entered into sales contracts as those sales contracts generally fix the price of the home at the time the contract is signed, which may be well in advance of the construction of the home. sustained increases in construction costs may, over time, erode our margins, and pricing competition may restrict our ability to pass on any such additional costs, thereby decreasing our margins. 9 products supplied to us and work done by subcontractors can expose us to risks that could adversely affect our business. we rely on subcontractors to perform the actual construction of our homes, and, in some cases, to select and obtain building materials. despite our detailed specifications and quality control procedures, in some cases, subcontractors may use improper construction processes or defective materials. defective products widely used by the homebuilding industry can result in the need to perform extensive repairs to large numbers of homes. the cost of complying with our warranty obligations may be significant if we are unable to recover the cost of repairs from subcontractors, materials suppliers and insurers. we also can suffer damage to our reputation, and may be exposed to possible liability, if subcontractors fail to comply with applicable laws, including laws involving actions or matters that are not within our control. when we learn about possibly improper practices by subcontractors, we attempt to cause the subcontractors to discontinue them and may terminate the use of such subcontractors. however, attempts at mitigation may not avoid claims against us relating to actions of or matters relating to our subcontractors. our success depends on our ability to acquire land suitable for residential homebuilding at reasonable prices, in accordance with our land investment criteria. the homebuilding industry is highly competitive for suitable land. the availability of finished and partially finished developed lots and undeveloped land for purchase that meet our internal criteria depends on a number of factors outside our control, including land availability in general, competition with other homebuilders and land buyers for desirable property, inflation in land prices, zoning, allowable housing density, and other regulatory requirements. should suitable lots or land become less available, the number of homes we may be able to build and sell could be reduced, and the cost of land could be increased, perhaps substantially, which could adversely impact our results of operations. our long-term ability to build homes depends on our acquiring land suitable for residential building at reasonable prices in locations where we want to build. we experience significant competition for suitable land as a result of land constraints in many of our markets. as competition for suitable land increases, and as available land is developed, the cost of acquiring suitable remaining land could rise, and the availability of suitable land at acceptable prices may decline. any land shortages or any decrease in the supply of suitable land at reasonable prices could limit our ability to develop new communities or result in increased land costs. we may not be able to pass through to our customers any increased land costs, which could adversely impact our revenues, earnings, and margins. we are subject to claims related to mortgage loans we sold in the secondary mortgage market that may be significant. our mortgage operations may be responsible for losses associated with mortgage loans originated and sold to investors in the event of errors or omissions relating to certain representations and warranties made by us that the loans met certain requirements, including representations as to underwriting standards, the type of collateral, the existence of primary mortgage insurance, and the validity of certain borrower representations in connection with the loan. to date, the significant majority of these losses relate to loans originated in 2006 and 2007, during which period inherently riskier loan products became more common in the origination market. we may also be required to indemnify underwriters that purchased and securitized loans originated by a former subsidiary of centex corporation ("centex"), which we acquired in 2009, for losses incurred by investors in those securitized loans based on similar breaches of representations and warranties. the resolution of claims related to alleged breaches of these representations and warranties and repurchase claims could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. given the ongoing volatility in the mortgage industry, changes in values of underlying collateral over time, and other uncertainties regarding the ultimate resolution of these claims, actual costs could differ from our current estimates. accordingly, there can be no assurance that such reserves will not need to be increased in the future. future increases in interest rates, reductions in mortgage availability, or other increases in the effective costs of owning a home could prevent potential customers from buying our homes and adversely affect our business and financial results. a large majority of our customers finance their home purchases through mortgage loans, many through pulte mortgage. mortgage interest rates have remained near historical lows for several years, which has made new homes more affordable. increases in interest rates or decreases in the availability of mortgage financing could adversely affect the market for new homes. potential homebuyers may be less willing or able to pay the increased monthly costs or to obtain mortgage financing. lenders may increase the qualifications needed for mortgages or adjust their terms to address any increased credit risk. even if potential customers do not need financing, changes in interest rates and mortgage availability could make it harder for them to 10 sell their current homes to potential buyers who need financing. these factors could adversely affect the sales or pricing of our homes and could also reduce the volume or margins in our financial services business. our financial services business could also be impacted to the extent we are unable to match interest rates and amounts on loans we have committed to originate through the various hedging strategies we employ. these developments have had, and may continue to have, a material adverse effect on the overall demand for new housing and thereby on the results of operations for our homebuilding business. the liquidity provided by fannie mae and freddie mac to the mortgage industry is also critical to the housing market. the impact of the federal government's conservatorship of fannie mae and freddie mac on the short-term and long-term demand for new housing remains unclear. any limitations or restrictions on the availability of financing by these agencies could adversely affect interest rates, mortgage financing, and our sales of new homes and mortgage loans. additionally, the availability of fha and va mortgage financing is an important factor in marketing some of our homes. mortgage interest expense and real estate taxes represent significant costs of homeownership, both of which are generally deductible for an individual's federal and, in some cases, state income taxes. any changes to income tax laws by the federal government or a state government to eliminate or substantially reduce these income tax deductions, as has been considered from time to time, would increase the after-tax cost of owning a home. on december 22, 2017, a law commonly known as the tax cuts and jobs act (the "tax act") was enacted. while the tax act lowers the tax rates applicable to many businesses and individuals, it also, among other things, (i) limits the federal deduction for mortgage interest so that it only applies to the first $750,000 of a new mortgage (as compared to $1 million under previous tax law), (ii) introduces a $10,000 cap on the federal deduction for state and local taxes, including real estate taxes, and (iii) eliminates the federal deduction for interest on home equity loans. while the ultimate impact of the tax act is not known, these tax changes may raise the overall cost of home ownership in certain of our existing or future communities, lessen the perceived financial benefits of home ownership, or otherwise reduce demand for our homes. increases in real estate taxes by local governmental authorities also increase the cost of homeownership. any such increases to the cost of homeownership could adversely impact the demand for and sales prices of new homes. adverse capital and credit market conditions may significantly affect our access to capital and cost of capital. the capital and credit markets can experience significant volatility. we may need credit-related liquidity for the future development of our business and other capital needs. without sufficient liquidity, we may not be able to purchase additional land or develop land, which could adversely affect our financial results. at december 31, 2017 , we had cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash of $306.2 million as well as $764.5 million available under our revolving credit facility, net of outstanding letters of credit. however, our internal sources of liquidity and revolving credit facility may prove to be insufficient, and in such case, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us, or at all. another source of liquidity includes our ability to use letters of credit and surety bonds pursuant to certain performance-related obligations and as security for certain land option agreements and insurance programs. the majority of these letters of credit and surety bonds are in support of our land development and construction obligations to various municipalities, other government agencies, and utility companies related to the construction of roads, sewers, and other infrastructure. at december 31, 2017 , we had outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds totaling $235.5 million and $1.2 billion , respectively. these letters of credit are generally issued via our unsecured revolving credit facility, which contains certain financial covenants and other limitations. if we are unable to obtain letters of credit or surety bonds when required, or the conditions imposed by issuers increase significantly, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. competition for homebuyers could reduce our deliveries or decrease our profitability. the u.s. housing industry is highly competitive. homebuilders compete not only for homebuyers, but also for desirable land, financing, raw materials, skilled management, and labor resources. we compete in each of our markets with numerous national, regional, and local homebuilders on the basis of location, price, quality, reputation, design, community amenities, and our customers' overall sales and homeownership experiences. this competition with other homebuilders could reduce the number of homes we deliver or cause us to accept reduced margins to maintain sales volume. competition can also affect our ability to procure suitable land, raw materials, and skilled labor at acceptable prices or other terms. we also compete with resales of existing or foreclosed homes, housing speculators, and available rental housing. increased competitive conditions in the residential resale or rental market in the regions where we operate could decrease demand for new homes or unfavorably impact pricing for new homes. 11 the loss of the services of members of our senior management or a significant number of our operating employees could negatively affect our business. our success depends upon the skills, experience, and active participation of our senior management, many of whom have been with the company for a significant number of years. if we were to lose members of our senior management, we might not be able to find appropriate replacements on a timely basis, and our operations could be negatively affected. also, the loss of a significant number of operating employees in key roles or geographies where we are not able to hire qualified replacements could have a material adverse effect on our business. our income tax provision and tax reserves may be insufficient if a taxing authority is successful in asserting positions that are contrary to our interpretations and related reserves, if any. significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes and our reserves for federal, state, and local taxes. in the ordinary course of business, there may be matters for which the ultimate outcome is uncertain. our evaluation of our tax matters is based on a number of factors, including changes in facts or circumstances, changes in tax law, correspondence with tax authorities during the course of audits, and effective settlement of audit issues. although we believe our approach to determining the tax treatment for such items is appropriate, no assurance can be given that the final tax authority review will not be materially different than that which is reflected in our income tax provision and related tax reserves. such differences could have a material adverse effect on our income tax provision in the period in which such determination is made and, consequently, on our financial position, cash flows, or net income. we are periodically audited by various federal, state, and local authorities regarding tax matters. our current audits are in various stages of completion; however, no outcome for a particular audit can be determined with certainty prior to the conclusion of the audit, appeal, and, in some cases, litigation process. as each audit is concluded, adjustments, if any, are recorded in our financial statements in the period determined. to provide for potential tax exposures, we consider a variety of factors, including changes in facts or circumstances, changes in law, correspondence with taxing authorities, and effective settlement of audit issues. if these reserves are insufficient upon completion of an audit, there could be an adverse impact on our financial position, cash flows, and results of operations. we may not realize our deferred tax assets. as of december 31, 2017 , we had deferred tax assets, net of deferred tax liabilities, of $713.9 million , against which we provided a valuation allowance of $68.6 million . the ultimate realization of our deferred tax assets is dependent upon generating future taxable income. while we have recorded valuation allowances against certain of our deferred tax assets, the valuation allowances are subject to change as facts and circumstances change. our ability to utilize net operating losses ( nols ), built-in losses ( bils ), and tax credit carryforwards to offset our future taxable income or income tax would be limited if we were to undergo an ownership change within the meaning of section 382 of the internal revenue code (the irc ). in general, an ownership change occurs whenever the percentage of the stock of a corporation owned by 5-percent shareholders (within the meaning of section 382 of the irc) increases by more than 50 percentage points over the lowest percentage of the stock of such corporation owned by such 5-percent shareholders at any time over the testing period. an ownership change under section 382 of the irc would establish an annual limitation to the amount of nols, bils, and tax credit carryforwards we could utilize to offset our taxable income or income tax in any single year. the application of these limitations might prevent full utilization of the deferred tax assets attributable to our nols, bils, and tax credit carryforwards. to preserve our ability to utilize nols, bils, and other tax benefits in the future without a section 382 limitation, we adopted a shareholder rights plan, which is triggered upon certain transfers of our securities, and amended our by-laws to prohibit certain transfers of our securities. our shareholder rights plan, as amended, expires june 1, 2019, unless our board of directors and shareholders approve an amendment to extend the term prior thereto. notwithstanding the foregoing measures, there can be no assurance that we will not undergo an ownership change within the meaning of section 382. our ability to use certain of centex's federal losses and credits is limited under section 382 of the irc. we do not believe that the section 382 limitations will prevent us from utilizing these centex losses and credits. we do believe that full utilization of certain state nol carryforwards will be limited due to section 382. 12 the value of our deferred tax assets is also dependent upon the tax rates expected to be in effect at the time taxable income is expected to be generated. a decrease in enacted corporate tax rates in our major jurisdictions, especially the u.s. federal corporate tax rate, would decrease the value of our deferred tax assets, which could be material. the tax act enacted on december 22, 2017, makes broad and complex changes to the u.s. tax code, including, but not limited to, the following that impact us: (1) reducing the u.s. federal corporate income tax rate from 35 percent to 21 percent; (2) eliminating the corporate alternative minimum tax ( amt ) and changing how existing amt credits can be realized; (3) creating a new limitation on deductible interest expense; (4) repealing the domestic production activities deduction; (5) limiting the deductibility of certain executive compensation; and (6) limiting certain other deductions. while we continue to evaluate the effects of the tax act, we have recorded a net tax expense of $172.1 million in 2017 related to the remeasurement of our deferred tax balance and other effects. we expect that the tax act will have a favorable impact on our financial results beginning in 2018. in the absence of guidance on various uncertainties and ambiguities in the application of certain provisions of the tax act, we will use what we believe are reasonable interpretations and assumptions in applying the tax act. however, it is possible that the irs could issue subsequent guidance or take positions in an audit that differ from our prior interpretations and assumptions, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash tax liabilities, results of operations, or financial condition. we have significant intangible assets. if these assets become impaired, then our profits and shareholders' equity may be reduced. we have significant intangible assets related to business combinations. if the carrying value of intangible assets is deemed impaired, the carrying value is written down to fair value. this would result in a charge to our earnings. if management's expectations of future results and cash flows decrease significantly, impairments of the remaining intangible assets may occur. government regulations could increase the cost and limit the availability of our development and homebuilding projects or affect our related financial services operations and adversely affect our business or financial results. our operations are subject to building, safety, environmental, and other regulations imposed and enforced by various federal, state, and local governing authorities. new housing developments may also be subject to various assessments for schools, parks, streets, and other public improvements. these can cause an increase in the effective cost of our homes. we also are subject to a variety of local, state, and federal laws and regulations concerning protection of health, safety, and the environment. the impact of environmental laws varies depending upon the prior uses of the building site or adjoining properties and may be greater in areas with less supply where undeveloped land or desirable alternatives are less available. these matters may result in delays, may cause us to incur substantial compliance, remediation and other costs, and can prohibit or severely restrict development and homebuilding activity in environmentally sensitive regions or areas. more stringent requirements could be imposed in the future on homebuilders and developers, thereby increasing the cost of compliance. our financial services operations are also subject to numerous federal, state, and local laws and regulations. these include eligibility requirements for participation in federal loan programs and compliance with consumer lending and similar requirements such as disclosure requirements, prohibitions against discrimination, and real estate settlement procedures. they also subject our operations to examination by applicable agencies, pursuant to which those agencies may limit our ability to provide mortgage financing or title services to potential purchasers of our homes. for our homes to qualify for fha or va mortgages, we must satisfy valuation standards and site, material, and construction requirements of those agencies. homebuilding is subject to warranty and other claims in the ordinary course of business that can be significant. as a homebuilder, we are subject to home warranty, construction defect, and other claims arising in the ordinary course of business. we record warranty and other reserves for the homes we sell based on historical experience in our markets and our judgment of the qualitative risks associated with the types of homes built. we have, and require our subcontractors to have, general liability, property, errors and omissions, workers compensation, and other business insurance. these insurance policies protect us against a portion of our risk of loss from claims, subject to certain self-insured per occurrence and aggregate retentions, deductibles, and available policy limits. in certain instances, we may offer our subcontractors the opportunity to purchase insurance through one of our captive insurance subsidiaries or participate in a project-specific insurance program provided by us. policies issued by our captive insurance subsidiaries represent self-insurance of these risks by us. we reserve for costs to cover our self-insured and deductible amounts under these policies and for any costs of claims and lawsuits based on an analysis of our historical claims, which includes an estimate of claims incurred but not yet reported. because of the 13 uncertainties inherent in these matters, we cannot provide assurance that our insurance coverage, our subcontractor arrangements, and our reserves will be adequate to address all our warranty and construction defect claims in the future. contractual indemnities can be difficult to enforce, we may be responsible for applicable self-insured retentions, and some types of claims may not be covered by insurance or may exceed applicable coverage limits. additionally, the coverage offered by and the availability of general liability insurance for construction defects are currently costly and limited. we have responded to increases in insurance costs and coverage limitations by increasing our self-insured retentions and claim reserves. there can be no assurance that coverage will not be further restricted or become more costly. additionally, we are exposed to counterparty default risk related to our subcontractors, our insurance carriers, and our subcontractors' insurance carriers. natural disasters and severe weather conditions could delay deliveries, increase costs, and decrease demand for new homes in affected areas. our homebuilding operations are located in many areas that are subject to natural disasters and severe weather. the occurrence of natural disasters or severe weather conditions can delay new home deliveries, increase costs by damaging inventories, reduce the availability of materials, and negatively impact the demand for new homes in affected areas. furthermore, if our insurance does not fully cover business interruptions or losses resulting from these events, our earnings, liquidity, or capital resources could be adversely affected. in 2017, hurricanes harvey and irma caused disruptions in our texas and florida operations, respectively, but did not result in a material impact to our 2017 results of operations. inflation may result in increased costs that we may not be able to recoup. inflation can adversely affect us by increasing costs of land, materials, and labor. in addition, significant inflation is often accompanied by higher interest rates, which may have a negative impact on demand for our homes. in an inflationary environment, economic conditions and other market factors may make it difficult for us to raise home prices enough to keep up with the rate of inflation, which would reduce our profit margins. although the rate of inflation has been historically low for the last several years, we currently are experiencing increases in the prices of labor and materials above the general inflation rate. information technology failures or data security breaches could harm our business. we use information technology and other computer resources to carry out important operational activities and to maintain our business records. our computer systems, including our back-up systems, are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches (through cyberattacks from computer hackers and sophisticated organizations), catastrophic events such as fires, tornadoes and hurricanes, and usage errors by our employees or cyber-attacks or errors by third-party vendors who have access to our confidential data, or that of our customers. while we are continuously working to improve our information technology systems and provide employee awareness training around phishing, malware, and other cyber risks to enhance our levels of protection, to the extent possible, against cyber risks and security breaches, and monitor to prevent, detect, address and mitigate the risk of unauthorized access, misuse, computer viruses and other events that could have a security impact, there is no assurance that advances in computer capabilities, new technologies, methods or other developments will detect or prevent security breaches and safeguard access to proprietary or confidential information. if our computer systems and our back-up systems are damaged, breached, or cease to function properly, or if there are intrusions of critical infrastructure such as the power grid or communications systems, we could suffer extended interruptions in our operations or unintentionally allow misappropriation of proprietary or confidential information (including information about our employees, homebuyers and business partners). any such disruption could damage our reputation, result in market value declines, lead to legal proceedings against us by affected third-parties resulting in penalties or fines, and require us to incur significant costs to remediate or otherwise resolve these issues. we can be injured by improper acts of persons over whom we do not have control or by the attempt to impose liabilities or obligations of third parties on us. although we expect all of our employees, officers, and directors to comply at all times with all applicable laws, rules, and regulations, there may be instances in which subcontractors or others through whom we do business engage in practices that do not comply with applicable laws, regulations, or governmental guidelines. when we learn of practices that do not comply with applicable laws or regulations, including practices relating to homes, buildings, or multifamily rental properties we build or finance, we move actively to stop the non-complying practices as soon as possible, and we have taken disciplinary action regarding employees of ours who were aware of non-complying practices and did not take steps to address them, including in some instances terminating their employment. however, regardless of the steps we take after we learn of practices that do not comply with applicable laws or regulations, we can in some instances be subject to fines or other governmental penalties, and our reputation can be injured, due to the practices' having taken place. 14 the homes we sell are built by employees of subcontractors and other contract parties. we do not have the ability to control what these contract parties pay their employees or subcontractors or the work rules they impose on their employees or subcontractors. however, various governmental agencies are trying to hold contract parties like us responsible for violations of wage and hour laws and other work-related laws by firms whose employees are performing contracted for services. governmental rulings or changes in state or local laws that make us responsible for labor practices by our subcontractors could create substantial exposures for us in situations that are not within our control. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are subject to market risk on our debt instruments primarily due to fluctuations in interest rates. we utilize both fixed-rate and variable-rate debt. for fixed-rate debt, changes in interest rates generally affect the fair value of the debt instrument but not our earnings or cash flows. conversely, for variable-rate debt, changes in interest rates generally do not affect the fair value of the debt instrument but could affect our earnings and cash flows. except in very limited circumstances, we do not have an obligation to prepay our debt prior to maturity. as a result, interest rate risk and changes in fair value should not have a significant impact on our fixed-rate debt until we are required or elect to refinance or repurchase such debt. the following tables set forth the principal cash flows by scheduled maturity, weighted-average interest rates, and estimated fair value of our debt obligations as of december 31, 2017 and 2016 ($000's omitted). as of december 31, 2017 for the years ending december 31, 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 thereafter total fair value rate-sensitive liabilities: fixed rate debt $ 508 $ 8,423 $ 9,539 $ 700,000 $ $ 2,300,000 $ 3,018,470 $ 3,262,221 average interest rate 3.00 % 4.07 % 3.98 % 4.25 % % 5.90 % 5.50 % variable rate debt (a) $ 438,657 $ 701 $ $ $ $ $ 439,358 $ 439,358 average interest rate 3.72 % 7.3 % % % % % 3.7 % as of december 31, 2016 for the years ending december 31, 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 thereafter total fair value rate-sensitive liabilities: fixed rate debt $ 134,482 $ $ 3,900 $ 3,900 $ 700,000 $ 2,300,000 $ 3,142,282 $ 3,131,579 average interest rate 7.12 % % 5.00 % 5.00 % 4.25 % 7.19 % 5.58 % variable rate debt (a) $ 331,621 $ $ $ $ $ $ 331,621 $ 331,621 average interest rate 2.89 % % % % % % 2.89 % (a) includes the pulte mortgage repurchase agreement. there were no amounts outstanding under our revolving credit facility at either december 31, 2017 or 2016 . derivative instruments and hedging activities pulte mortgage is exposed to market risks from commitments to lend, movements in interest rates, and canceled or modified commitments to lend. a commitment to lend at a specific interest rate (an interest rate lock commitment) is a derivative financial instrument (interest rate is locked to the borrower). the interest rate risk continues through the loan closing and until the loan is sold to an investor. we are generally not exposed to variability in cash flows of derivative instruments for more than approximately 60 days. in periods of rising interest rates, the length of exposure will generally increase due to customers locking in an interest rate sooner as opposed to letting the interest rate float. in periods of low or decreasing interest rates, the length of exposure will also generally increase as customers desire to lock before the possibility of rising rates. in order to reduce these risks, we use other derivative financial instruments, principally cash forward placement contracts on mortgage-backed securities and whole loan investor commitments, to economically hedge the interest rate lock commitment. we generally enter into one of the aforementioned derivative financial instruments upon accepting interest rate lock commitments. changes in the fair value of interest rate lock commitments and the other derivative financial instruments are recognized in financial services revenues. we do not use any derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. at december 31, 2017 and 2016 , residential mortgage loans available-for-sale had an aggregate fair value of $570.6 million and $539.5 million , respectively. at december 31, 2017 and 2016 , we had aggregate interest rate lock commitments of $210.9 million and $273.9 million , respectively, which were originated at interest rates prevailing at the date of commitment. unexpired forward contracts totaled $522.0 million and $610.0 million at december 31, 2017 and 2016 , respectively, and whole loan investor commitments totaled $203.1 million and $157.6 million , respectively, at such dates. hypothetical changes 41 in the fair values of our financial instruments arising from immediate parallel shifts in long-term mortgage rates would not be material to our financial results due to the offsetting nature in the movements in fair value of our financial instruments. special notes concerning forward-looking statements as a cautionary note, except for the historical information contained herein, certain matters discussed in item 2, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, and item 3, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk , are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. such forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause our actual results, performance, prospects or opportunities, as well as those of the markets we serve or intend to serve, to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, these statements. you can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate to matters of a strictly factual or historical nature and generally discuss or relate to forecasts, estimates or other expectations regarding future events. generally, the words believe, expect, intend, estimate, anticipate, plan, project, may, can, could, might, "should", will and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, including statements related to the impairment charge with respect to certain land parcels and the impacts or effects thereof, expected operating and performing results, planned transactions, planned objectives of management, future developments or conditions in the industries in which we participate and other trends, developments and uncertainties that may affect our business in the future. such risks, uncertainties and other factors include, among other things: interest rate changes and the availability of mortgage financing; competition within the industries in which we operate; the availability and cost of land and other raw materials used by us in our homebuilding operations; the impact of any changes to our strategy in responding to the cyclical nature of the industry, including any changes regarding our land positions and the levels of our land spend; the availability and cost of insurance covering risks associated with our businesses; shortages and the cost of labor; weather related slowdowns; slow growth initiatives and/or local building moratoria; governmental regulation directed at or affecting the housing market, the homebuilding industry or construction activities; uncertainty in the mortgage lending industry, including revisions to underwriting standards and repurchase requirements associated with the sale of mortgage loans; the interpretation of or changes to tax, labor and environmental laws, including, but not limited to the tax cuts and jobs act which could have a greater impact on our effective tax rate or the value of our deferred tax assets than we anticipate; economic changes nationally or in our local markets, including inflation, deflation, changes in consumer confidence and preferences and the state of the market for homes in general; legal or regulatory proceedings or claims; our ability to generate sufficient cash flow in order to successfully implement our capital allocation priorities; required accounting changes; terrorist acts and other acts of war; and other factors of national, regional and global scale, including those of a political, economic, business and competitive nature. see item 1a risk factors for a further discussion of these and other risks and uncertainties applicable to our businesses. we undertake no duty to update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or changes in our expectations. 42risk factors discussion of our business and operations included in this annual report on form 10-k should be read together with the risk factors set forth below. they describe various risks and uncertainties to which we are, or may become, subject. these risks and uncertainties, together with other factors described elsewhere in this report, have the potential to affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, strategies, or prospects in a material and adverse manner. the homebuilding industry is cyclical and a deterioration in industry conditions or downward changes in general economic or other business conditions could adversely affect our business or our financial results. the residential homebuilding industry is sensitive to changes in economic conditions and other factors, such as the level of employment, consumer confidence, consumer income, availability of financing, and interest rate levels. adverse changes in any of these conditions generally, or in the markets where we operate, could decrease demand and pricing for new homes in these areas or result in customer cancellations of pending contracts, which could adversely affect the number of home deliveries we make or reduce the prices we can charge for homes, either of which could result in a significant decrease in our revenues and earnings that could materially and adversely affect our financial condition. beginning in 2006 and continuing through 2011, the u.s. housing market was unfavorably impacted by severe weakness in new home sales attributable to, among other factors, weak consumer confidence, tightened mortgage standards, significant foreclosure activity, a more challenging appraisal environment, higher than normal unemployment levels, and significant uncertainty in the global economy. during this period, we incurred significant losses, including impairments of our land inventory and certain other assets. since 2011, overall industry new home sales have increased, and we returned to profitability beginning in 2012. however, the recovery in housing demand has been slow by historical standards and the adjustments we have made to our operating strategy may not be successful if the current housing market were to deteriorate significantly. future increases in interest rates, reductions in mortgage availability, or other increases in the effective costs of owning a home could prevent potential customers from buying our homes and adversely affect our business and financial results. a large majority of our customers finance their home purchases through mortgage loans, many through pulte mortgage. while mortgage interest rates in recent years have been at or near historic lows, thereby making new homes more affordable, mortgage loan interest rates have increased recently as the federal funds rate has been increased. increases in interest rates or decreases in the availability of mortgage financing could adversely affect the market for new homes. potential homebuyers may be less willing or able to pay the increased monthly costs resulting from higher interest rates or to obtain mortgage financing. lenders may increase the qualifications needed for mortgages or adjust their terms to address any increased credit risk. even if potential customers do not need financing, changes in interest rates and mortgage availability could make it harder for them to sell their current homes to potential buyers who need financing. these factors could adversely affect the sales or pricing of our homes and could also reduce the volume or margins in our financial services business. our financial services business could also be impacted to the extent we are unable to match interest rates and amounts on loans we have committed to originate through the various hedging strategies we employ. these developments have had, and may continue to have, a material adverse effect on the overall demand for new housing and thereby on the results of operations of our business. for example, during 2018, we experienced lower than expected conversions of traffic to signups, especially among first-time and move-up buyers, beginning in may 2018 when mortgage rates increased. the liquidity provided by fannie mae and freddie mac to the mortgage industry is also critical to the housing market. the impact of the federal government's conservatorship of fannie mae and freddie mac on the short-term and long-term demand for new housing remains unclear. any limitations or restrictions on the availability of financing by these agencies could adversely affect interest rates, mortgage financing, and our sales of new homes and mortgage loans. additionally, the availability of fha and va mortgage financing is an important factor in marketing some of our homes. mortgage interest expense and real estate taxes represent significant costs of homeownership, both of which were historically generally deductible for an individual's federal and, in some cases, state income taxes. on december 22, 2017, a law commonly known as the tax cuts and jobs act (the "tax act") was enacted. while the tax act lowers the tax rates applicable to many businesses and individuals, it also, among other things, (i) limits the federal deduction for mortgage interest so that it only applies to the first $750,000 of a new mortgage (as compared to $1 million under previous tax law), (ii) introduces a $10,000 cap on the federal deduction for state and local taxes, including real estate taxes, and (iii) eliminates the federal deduction for interest on certain home equity loans. the tax act also increased the standard deduction for individuals. as a result, fewer individuals are expected to itemize their income tax deductions, which would mitigate the income tax advantages associated with homeownership for those individuals. the combination of these changes could reduce home 9 ownership affordability and demand, especially in regions with higher housing prices or higher state and local income taxes. any further changes in income tax law which eliminates or reduces the income tax benefits associated with home ownership could have an adverse impact on our business. our success depends on our ability to acquire land suitable for residential homebuilding at reasonable prices, in accordance with our land investment criteria. the homebuilding industry is highly competitive for suitable land. the availability of finished and partially finished developed lots and undeveloped land for purchase that meet our internal criteria depends on a number of factors outside our control, including land availability in general, competition with other homebuilders and land buyers for desirable property, inflation in land prices, zoning, allowable housing density, and other regulatory requirements. should suitable lots or land become less available, the number of homes we may be able to build and sell could be reduced, and the cost of land could be increased, perhaps substantially, which could adversely impact our results of operations. our long-term ability to build homes depends on our acquiring land suitable for residential building at reasonable prices in locations where we want to build. we experience significant competition for suitable land as a result of land constraints in many of our markets. as competition for suitable land increases, and as available land is developed, the cost of acquiring suitable remaining land could rise, and the availability of suitable land at acceptable prices may decline. any land shortages or any decrease in the supply of suitable land at reasonable prices could limit our ability to develop new communities or result in increased land costs. we may not be able to pass through to our customers any increased land costs, which could adversely impact our revenues, earnings, and margins. supply shortages and other risks related to the demand for skilled labor and building materials could increase costs and delay deliveries. the homebuilding industry is highly competitive for skilled labor and materials. labor shortages in certain of our markets have become more acute in recent years as the supply chain adjusts to industry growth. additionally, the cost of certain building materials, especially lumber, steel, concrete, copper, and petroleum-based materials, is influenced by changes in local and global commodity prices as well as government regulation, such as government-imposed tariffs or trade restrictions on supplies such as steel and lumber. during 2018, we experienced increases in the prices of some building materials and shortages of skilled labor in some areas. increased costs or shortages of skilled labor and/or materials cause increases in construction costs and/or could cause construction delays. we may not be able to pass on increases in construction costs to customers and generally are unable to pass on any such increases to customers who have already entered into sales contracts as those sales contracts generally fix the price of the home at the time the contract is signed, which may be well in advance of the construction of the home. sustained increases in construction costs may, over time, erode our margins, and pricing competition may restrict our ability to pass on any such additional costs, thereby decreasing our margins. if the market value of our land and homes drops significantly, our profits could decrease and result in write-downs of the carrying values of land we own. the market value of land, building lots, and housing inventories can fluctuate significantly as a result of changing market conditions, and the measures we employ to manage inventory risk may not be adequate to insulate our operations from a severe drop in inventory values. we acquire land for expansion into new markets and for replacement of land inventory and expansion within our current markets. if housing demand decreases below what we anticipated when we acquired our inventory, we may not be able to make profits similar to what we have made in the past, we may experience less than anticipated profits, and/or we may not be able to recover our costs when we sell and build homes. when market conditions are such that land values are not appreciating, land option arrangements previously entered into may become less desirable, at which time we may elect to forego deposits and pre-acquisition costs and terminate the agreement. in the face of adverse market conditions, we may have substantial inventory carrying costs, we may have to write down our inventory to its fair value, and/or we may have to sell land or homes at a loss. at times we have been required to record significant write-downs of the carrying value of our land inventory, and we have elected not to exercise options to purchase land, even though that required us to forfeit deposits and write-off pre-acquisition costs. for example, we incurred land-related charges totaling $99.4 million and $191.9 million in 2018 and 2017, respectively. although we have taken efforts to reduce our exposure to costs of that type, a certain amount of exposure is inherent in the homebuilding business. if market conditions were to deteriorate in the future, we could again be required to record significant write downs to our land inventory, which would decrease the asset values reflected on our balance sheet and materially and adversely affect our earnings and our stockholders' equity. 10 we are subject to claims related to mortgage loans we sold in the secondary mortgage market that may be significant. our mortgage operations may be responsible for losses arising out of claims associated with mortgage loans originated and sold to investors in the event of errors or omissions relating to certain representations and warranties made by us that the loans met certain requirements, including representations as to underwriting standards, the type of collateral, the existence of primary mortgage insurance, and the validity of certain borrower representations in connection with the loan. to date, the significant majority of these claims made by investors against our mortgage operations relate to loans originated prior to 2009, during which inherently riskier loan products became more common in the origination market. we may also be required to indemnify underwriters that purchased and securitized loans originated by a former subsidiary of centex corporation ("centex"), which we acquired in 2009, for losses incurred by investors in those securitized loans based on similar breaches of representations and warranties. as of december 31, 2018, our mortgage subsidiaries were defendants in legal proceedings in which the plaintiffs are seeking indemnification for alleged breaches of representations and warranties made by the mortgage subsidiaries in the mortgage loan sale agreements and may also be subject to other similar claims for which legal proceedings had not been instituted as of december 31, 2018. the resolution of claims related to alleged breaches of these representations and warranties and repurchase claims could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. given the unsettled litigation, changes in values of underlying collateral over time, and other uncertainties regarding the ultimate resolution of these claims, actual costs could differ from our current estimates. accordingly, there can be no assurance that such reserves will not need to be increased in the future. products supplied to us and work done by subcontractors can expose us to risks that could adversely affect our business. we rely on subcontractors to perform the actual construction of our homes and, in some cases, to select and obtain building materials. despite our detailed specifications and quality control procedures, in some cases, subcontractors may use improper construction processes or defective materials. defective products widely used by the homebuilding industry can result in the need to perform extensive repairs to large numbers of homes. the cost of complying with our warranty obligations may be significant if we are unable to recover the cost of repairs from subcontractors, materials suppliers, and insurers. we also can suffer damage to our reputation, and may be exposed to possible liability, if subcontractors fail to comply with applicable laws, including laws involving actions or matters that are not within our control. when we learn about possibly improper practices by subcontractors, we attempt to cause the subcontractors to discontinue them and may terminate the use of such subcontractors. however, attempts at mitigation may not avoid claims against us relating to actions of or matters relating to our subcontractors. adverse capital and credit market conditions may significantly affect our access to capital and cost of capital. the capital and credit markets can experience significant volatility. we may need credit-related liquidity for the future development of our business and other capital needs. without sufficient liquidity, we may not be able to purchase additional land or develop land, which could adversely affect our financial results. at december 31, 2018 , we had cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash of $1.1 billion as well as $760.6 million available under our revolving credit facility, net of outstanding letters of credit. however, our internal sources of liquidity and revolving credit facility may prove to be insufficient, and, in such case, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us, or at all. another source of liquidity includes our ability to use letters of credit and surety bonds relating to certain performance-related obligations and as security for certain land option agreements and insurance programs. the majority of these letters of credit and surety bonds are in support of our land development and construction obligations to various municipalities, other government agencies, and utility companies related to the construction of roads, sewers, and other infrastructure. at december 31, 2018 , we had outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds totaling $239.4 million and $1.3 billion , respectively. these letters of credit are generally issued via our unsecured revolving credit facility, which contains certain financial covenants and other limitations. if we are unable to obtain letters of credit or surety bonds when required, or the conditions imposed by issuers increase significantly, our liquidity could be adversely affected. 11 our inability to sell mortgages into the secondary market could significantly reduce our ability to sell homes unless we are willing to become a long-term investor in loans we originate. we sell substantially all of the residential mortgage loans we originate within a short period in the secondary mortgage market. if we were unable to sell loans into the secondary mortgage market or directly to fannie mae and freddie mac, we would have to either (a) curtail our origination of residential mortgage loans, which among other things, could significantly reduce our ability to sell homes, or (b) commit our own funds to long term investments in mortgage loans, which, in addition to requiring us to deploy substantial amounts of our own funds, could delay the time when we recognize revenues from home sales on our statements of operations. competition for homebuyers could reduce our deliveries or decrease our profitability. the u.s. housing industry is highly competitive. homebuilders compete not only for homebuyers, but also for desirable land, financing, raw materials, skilled management, and labor resources. we compete in each of our markets with numerous national, regional, and local homebuilders on the basis of location, price, quality, reputation, design, community amenities, and our customers' overall sales and homeownership experiences. this competition with other homebuilders could reduce the number of homes we deliver or cause us to accept reduced margins to maintain sales volume. competition can also affect our ability to procure suitable land, raw materials, and skilled labor at acceptable prices or other terms. we also compete with resales of existing or foreclosed homes, housing speculators, and available rental housing. increased competitive conditions in the residential resale or rental market in the regions where we operate could decrease demand for new homes or unfavorably impact pricing for new homes. the loss of the services of members of our senior management or a significant number of our operating employees could negatively affect our business. our success depends upon the skills, experience, and active participation of our senior management, many of whom have been with the company for a significant number of years. if we were to lose members of our senior management, we might not be able to find appropriate replacements on a timely basis, and our operations could be negatively affected. also, the loss of a significant number of operating employees in key roles or geographies where we are not able to hire qualified replacements could have a material adverse effect on our business. our income tax provision and tax reserves may be insufficient if a taxing authority is successful in asserting positions that are contrary to our interpretations and related reserves, if any. significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes and our reserves for federal, state, and local taxes. in the ordinary course of business, there may be matters for which the ultimate outcome is uncertain. our evaluation of our tax matters is based on a number of factors, including relevant facts and circumstances, applicable tax law, correspondence with tax authorities during the course of audits, and effective settlement of audit issues. although we believe our approach to determining the tax treatment for such items is appropriate, no assurance can be given that the final tax authority review will not be materially different than that which is reflected in our income tax provision and related tax reserves. such differences could have a material adverse effect on our income tax provision in the period in which such determination is made and, consequently, on our financial position, cash flows, or net income. we are periodically audited by various federal, state, and local authorities regarding tax matters. our current audits are in various stages of completion; however, no outcome for a particular audit can be determined with certainty prior to the conclusion of the audit, appeal, and, in some cases, litigation process. as each audit is concluded, adjustments, if any, are recorded in our financial statements in the period determined. to provide for potential tax exposures, we consider a variety of factors, including relevant facts and circumstances, applicable tax law, correspondence with taxing authorities, and effective settlement of audit issues. if these reserves are insufficient upon completion of an audit, there could be an adverse impact on our financial position, cash flows, and results of operations. we may not realize our deferred tax assets. as of december 31, 2018 , we had deferred tax assets, net of deferred tax liabilities, of $368.2 million , against which we provided a valuation allowance of $92.6 million . the ultimate realization of our deferred tax assets is dependent upon generating future taxable income. while we have recorded valuation allowances against certain of our deferred tax assets, the valuation allowances are subject to change as facts and circumstances change. 12 our ability to utilize net operating losses ( nols ), built-in losses ( bils ), and tax credit carryforwards to offset our future taxable income or income tax would be limited if we were to undergo an ownership change within the meaning of section 382 of the internal revenue code (the irc ). in general, an ownership change occurs whenever the percentage of the stock of a corporation owned by 5-percent shareholders (within the meaning of section 382 of the irc) increases by more than 50 percentage points over the lowest percentage of the stock of such corporation owned by such 5-percent shareholders at any time over the testing period. an ownership change under section 382 of the irc would establish an annual limitation to the amount of nols, bils, and tax credit carryforwards we could utilize to offset our taxable income or income tax in any single year. the application of these limitations might prevent full utilization of the deferred tax assets attributable to our nols, bils, and tax credit carryforwards. to preserve our ability to utilize nols, bils, and other tax benefits in the future without a section 382 limitation, we adopted a shareholder rights plan, which is triggered upon certain transfers of our securities, and amended our by-laws to prohibit certain transfers of our securities. our shareholder rights plan, as amended, expires june 1, 2019, unless our board of directors and shareholders approve an amendment to extend the term prior thereto. notwithstanding the foregoing measures, there can be no assurance that we will not undergo an ownership change within the meaning of section 382. our ability to use certain of centex's federal losses and credits is limited under section 382 of the irc. we do not believe that the section 382 limitations will prevent us from utilizing these centex losses and credits. we do believe that full utilization of certain state nol carryforwards will be limited due to section 382. the value of our deferred tax assets is also dependent upon the tax rates expected to be in effect at the time taxable income is expected to be generated. a decrease in enacted corporate tax rates in our major jurisdictions, especially the u.s. federal corporate tax rate, would decrease the value of our deferred tax assets, which could be material. we have significant intangible assets. if these assets become impaired, then our profits and shareholders' equity may be reduced. we have significant intangible assets related to business combinations. if the carrying value of intangible assets is deemed impaired, the carrying value is written down to fair value. this would result in a charge to our earnings. if management's expectations of future results and cash flows decrease significantly, impairments of the remaining intangible assets may occur. government regulations could increase the cost and limit the availability of our development and homebuilding projects or affect our related financial services operations and adversely affect our business or financial results. our operations are subject to building, safety, environmental, and other regulations imposed and enforced by various federal, state, and local governing authorities. new housing developments may also be subject to various assessments for schools, parks, streets, and other public improvements. these assessments have increased over recent years as other funding mechanisms have decreased causing local governing authorities to seek greater contributions from homebuilders. all of these factors can cause an increase in the effective cost of our homes. we also are subject to a variety of local, state, and federal laws and regulations concerning protection of health, safety, and the environment. the impact of environmental laws varies depending upon the prior uses of the building site or adjoining properties and may be greater in areas with less supply where undeveloped land or desirable alternatives are less available. these matters may result in delays, may cause us to incur substantial compliance, remediation and other costs, and can prohibit or severely restrict development and homebuilding activity in environmentally sensitive regions or areas. more stringent requirements could be imposed in the future on homebuilders and developers, thereby increasing the cost of compliance. our financial services operations are also subject to numerous federal, state, and local laws and regulations. these include eligibility requirements for participation in federal loan programs and compliance with consumer lending and similar requirements such as disclosure requirements, prohibitions against discrimination, and real estate settlement procedures. they also subject our operations to examination by applicable agencies, pursuant to which those agencies may limit our ability to provide mortgage financing or title services to potential purchasers of our homes. for our homes to qualify for fha or va mortgages, we must satisfy valuation standards and site, material, and construction requirements of those agencies. 13 homebuilding is subject to warranty and other claims in the ordinary course of business that can be significant. as a homebuilder, we are subject to home warranty, construction defect, and other claims arising in the ordinary course of business. we record warranty and other reserves relating to the homes we sell based on historical experience in our markets and our judgment of the qualitative risks associated with the types of homes built. we have, and require our subcontractors to have, general liability, property, errors and omissions, workers compensation, and other business insurance. these insurance policies protect us against a portion of our risk of loss from claims, subject to certain self-insured per occurrence and aggregate retentions, deductibles, and available policy limits. in certain instances, we may offer our subcontractors the opportunity to purchase insurance through one of our captive insurance subsidiaries or participate in a project-specific insurance program provided by us. policies issued by our captive insurance subsidiaries represent self-insurance of these risks by us. we reserve for costs to cover our self-insured and deductible amounts under these policies and for any costs of claims and lawsuits based on an analysis of our historical claims, which includes an estimate of claims incurred but not yet reported. because of the uncertainties inherent in these matters, we cannot provide assurance that our insurance coverage, our subcontractor arrangements, and our reserves will be adequate to address all our warranty and construction defect claims in the future. contractual indemnities can be difficult to enforce, we may be responsible for applicable self-insured retentions, and some types of claims may not be covered by insurance or may exceed applicable coverage limits. additionally, the coverage offered by and the availability of general liability insurance for construction defects are currently costly and limited. we have responded to increases in insurance costs and coverage limitations by increasing our self-insured retentions and claim reserves. there can be no assurance that coverage will not be further restricted or become more costly. additionally, we are exposed to counterparty default risk related to our subcontractors, our insurance carriers, and our subcontractors' insurance carriers. natural disasters, severe weather conditions and changing climate patterns could delay deliveries, increase costs, and decrease demand for new homes in affected areas. our homebuilding operations are located in many areas that are subject to natural disasters and severe weather. the occurrence of natural disasters or severe weather conditions can delay new home deliveries, increase costs by damaging inventories, reduce the availability of materials, and negatively impact the demand for new homes in affected areas. furthermore, if our insurance does not fully cover business interruptions or losses resulting from these events, our earnings, liquidity, or capital resources could be adversely affected. in 2017 and 2018, several hurricanes caused disruptions in our florida, carolinas, and houston markets but did not result in a material impact to our results of operations. in addition, government restrictions, standards, or regulations intended to reduce greenhouse gas emissions or potential climate change impacts are likely to result in restrictions on land development in certain areas and may increase energy, transportation, or raw material costs, which could reduce our housing gross profit margins and adversely affect our results of operations. inflation may result in increased costs that we may not be able to recoup. inflation can adversely affect us by increasing costs of land, materials, and labor. in addition, significant inflation is often accompanied by higher interest rates, which may have a negative impact on demand for our homes. in an inflationary environment, economic conditions and other market factors may make it difficult for us to raise home prices enough to keep up with the rate of inflation, which would reduce our profit margins. although the rate of inflation has been historically low for the last several years, we currently are experiencing increases in the prices of labor and materials above the general inflation rate. information technology failures or data security breaches could harm our business. we use information technology and other computer resources to carry out important operational activities and to maintain our business records. our computer systems, including our back-up systems, are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches (through cyberattacks from computer hackers and sophisticated organizations), catastrophic events such as fires, tornadoes and hurricanes, and usage errors by our employees or cyber-attacks or errors by third party vendors who have access to our confidential data, or that of our customers. while we are continuously working to improve our information technology systems and provide employee awareness training around phishing, malware, and other cyber risks to enhance our levels of protection, to the extent possible, against cyber risks and security breaches, and monitor to prevent, detect, address and mitigate the risk of unauthorized access, misuse, computer viruses and other events that could have an impact on our business, there is no assurance that advances in computer capabilities, new technologies, methods or other developments will detect or prevent security breaches and safeguard access to proprietary or confidential information. if our computer systems and our back-up systems are damaged, breached, or cease to function properly, or if there are intrusions or failures of critical infrastructure such as the power grid or 14 communications systems, we could suffer extended interruptions in our operations or unintentionally allow misappropriation of proprietary or confidential information (including information about our employees, homebuyers and business partners). any such disruption could damage our reputation, result in market value declines, lead to legal proceedings against us by affected third parties resulting in penalties or fines, and require us to incur significant costs to remediate or otherwise resolve these issues. we can be injured by improper acts of persons over whom we do not have control or by the attempt to impose liabilities or obligations of third parties on us. although we expect all of our employees, officers, and directors to comply at all times with all applicable laws, rules, and regulations, there may be instances in which subcontractors or others through whom we do business engage in practices that do not comply with applicable laws, regulations, or governmental guidelines. when we learn of practices that do not comply with applicable laws or regulations, including practices relating to homes, buildings, or multifamily rental properties we build or finance, we move actively to stop the non-complying practices as soon as possible, and we have taken disciplinary action regarding employees of ours who were aware of non-complying practices and did not take steps to address them, including in some instances terminating their employment. however, regardless of the steps we take after we learn of practices that do not comply with applicable laws or regulations, we can in some instances be subject to fines or other governmental penalties, and our reputation can be injured, due to the practices' having taken place. the homes we sell are built by employees of subcontractors and other contract parties. we do not have the ability to control what these contract parties pay their employees or subcontractors or the work rules they impose on their employees or subcontractors. however, various governmental agencies are trying to hold contract parties like us responsible for violations of wage and hour laws and other work-related laws by firms whose employees are performing contracted services. governmental rulings or changes in state or local laws that make us responsible for labor practices by our subcontractors could create substantial exposures for us in situations that are not within our control. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are subject to market risk on our debt instruments primarily due to fluctuations in interest rates. we utilize both fixed-rate and variable-rate debt. for fixed-rate debt, changes in interest rates generally affect the fair value of the debt instrument but not our earnings or cash flows. conversely, for variable-rate debt, changes in interest rates generally do not affect the fair value of the debt instrument but could affect our earnings and cash flows. except in very limited circumstances, we do not have an obligation to prepay our debt prior to maturity. as a result, interest rate risk and changes in fair value should not have a significant impact on our fixed-rate debt until we are required or elect to refinance or repurchase such debt. the following tables set forth the principal cash flows by scheduled maturity, weighted-average interest rates, and estimated fair value of our debt obligations as of december 31, 2018 and 2017 ($000's omitted). as of december 31, 2018 for the years ending december 31, 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 thereafter total fair value rate-sensitive liabilities: fixed rate debt $ 24,088 $ 9,968 $ 706,720 $ $ $ 2,300,000 $ 3,040,776 $ 2,898,606 average interest rate 5.31 % 3.81 % 4.28 % % % 5.90 % 5.51 % variable rate debt (a) $ 348,949 $ $ $ $ $ $ 348,949 $ 348,948 average interest rate 4.41 % % % % % % 4.41 % as of december 31, 2017 for the years ending december 31, 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 thereafter total fair value rate-sensitive liabilities: fixed rate debt $ 508 $ 8,423 $ 9,539 $ 700,000 $ $ 2,300,000 $ 3,018,470 $ 3,262,221 average interest rate 3.00 % 4.07 % 3.98 % 4.25 % % 5.90 % 5.50 % variable rate debt (a) $ 438,657 $ 701 $ $ $ $ $ 439,358 $ 439,358 average interest rate 3.72 % 7.30 % % % % % 3.70 % (a) includes the pulte mortgage repurchase agreement. there were no amounts outstanding under our revolving credit facility at either december 31, 2018 or 2017 . derivative instruments and hedging activities pulte mortgage is exposed to market risks from commitments to lend, movements in interest rates, and canceled or modified commitments to lend. a commitment to lend at a specific interest rate (an interest rate lock commitment) is a derivative financial instrument (interest rate is locked to the borrower). the interest rate risk continues through the loan closing and until the loan is sold to an investor. we are generally not exposed to variability in cash flows of derivative instruments for more than approximately 60 days. in periods of rising interest rates, the length of exposure will generally increase due to customers locking in an interest rate sooner as opposed to letting the interest rate float. in periods of low or decreasing interest rates, the length of exposure will also generally increase as customers desire to lock before the possibility of rising rates. 40 in order to reduce these risks, we use other derivative financial instruments, principally cash forward placement contracts on mortgage-backed securities and whole loan investor commitments, to economically hedge the interest rate lock commitment. we generally enter into one of the aforementioned derivative financial instruments upon accepting interest rate lock commitments. changes in the fair value of interest rate lock commitments and the other derivative financial instruments are recognized in financial services revenues. we do not use any derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. at december 31, 2018 and 2017 , residential mortgage loans available-for-sale had an aggregate fair value of $461.4 million and $570.6 million , respectively. at december 31, 2018 and 2017 , we had aggregate interest rate lock commitments of $285.0 million and $210.9 million , respectively, which were originated at interest rates prevailing at the date of commitment. unexpired forward contracts totaled $511.0 million and $522.0 million at december 31, 2018 and 2017 , respectively, and whole loan investor commitments totaled $187.8 million and $203.1 million , respectively, at such dates. hypothetical changes in the fair values of our financial instruments arising from immediate parallel shifts in long-term mortgage rates would not be material to our financial results due to the offsetting nature in the movements in fair value of our financial instruments. special notes concerning forward-looking statements as a cautionary note, except for the historical information contained herein, certain matters discussed in item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, and item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk , are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. such forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause our actual results, performance, prospects or opportunities, as well as those of the markets we serve or intend to serve, to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, these statements. you can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate to matters of a strictly factual or historical nature and generally discuss or relate to forecasts, estimates or other expectations regarding future events. generally, the words believe, expect, intend, estimate, anticipate, plan, project, may, can, could, might, "should", will and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, including statements related to the impairment charge with respect to certain land parcels and the impacts or effects thereof, expected operating and performing results, planned transactions, planned objectives of management, future developments or conditions in the industries in which we participate and other trends, developments and uncertainties that may affect our business in the future. such risks, uncertainties and other factors include, among other things: interest rate changes and the availability of mortgage financing; competition within the industries in which we operate; the availability and cost of land and other raw materials used by us in our homebuilding operations; the impact of any changes to our strategy in responding to the cyclical nature of the industry, including any changes regarding our land positions and the levels of our land spend; the availability and cost of insurance covering risks associated with our businesses; shortages and the cost of labor; weather related slowdowns; slow growth initiatives and/or local building moratoria; governmental regulation directed at or affecting the housing market, the homebuilding industry or construction activities; uncertainty in the mortgage lending industry, including revisions to underwriting standards and repurchase requirements associated with the sale of mortgage loans; the interpretation of or changes to tax, labor and environmental laws, including, but not limited to the tax cuts and jobs act which could have a greater impact on our effective tax rate or the value of our deferred tax assets than we anticipate; economic changes nationally or in our local markets, including inflation, deflation, changes in consumer confidence and preferences and the state of the market for homes in general; legal or regulatory proceedings or claims; our ability to generate sufficient cash flow in order to successfully implement our capital allocation priorities; required accounting changes; terrorist acts and other acts of war; and other factors of national, regional and global scale, including those of a political, economic, business and competitive nature. see item 1a risk factors for a further discussion of these and other risks and uncertainties applicable to our businesses. we undertake no duty to update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or changes in our expectations. 41risk factors discussion of our business and operations included in this annual report on form 10-k should be read together with the risk factors set forth below. they describe various risks and uncertainties to which we are, or may become, subject. these risks and uncertainties, together with other factors described elsewhere in this report, have the potential to affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, strategies, or prospects in a material and adverse manner. the homebuilding industry is cyclical and a deterioration in industry conditions or downward changes in general economic or other business conditions could adversely affect our business or our financial results. the residential homebuilding industry is sensitive to changes in economic conditions and other factors, such as the level of employment, consumer confidence, consumer income, availability of financing, and interest rate levels. adverse changes in any of these conditions generally, or in the markets where we operate, could decrease demand and pricing for new homes in these areas or result in customer cancellations of pending contracts, which could adversely affect the number of home deliveries we make or reduce the prices we can charge for homes, either of which could result in a significant decrease in our revenues and earnings that could materially and adversely affect our financial condition. beginning in 2006 and continuing through 2011, the u.s. housing market was unfavorably impacted by severe weakness in new home sales attributable to, among other factors, weak consumer confidence, tightened mortgage standards, significant foreclosure activity, a more challenging appraisal environment, higher than normal unemployment levels, and significant uncertainty in the global economy. during this period, we incurred significant losses, including impairments of our land inventory and certain other assets. since 2011, overall industry new home sales have increased, and we returned to profitability beginning in 2012. however, the recovery in housing demand has been slow by historical standards and the adjustments we have made to our operating strategy may not be successful if the current housing market were to deteriorate significantly. 8 future increases in interest rates, reductions in mortgage availability, or other increases in the effective costs of owning a home could prevent potential customers from buying our homes and adversely affect our business and financial results. a large majority of our customers finance their home purchases through mortgage loans, many through pulte mortgage. mortgage interest rates in recent years have been at or near historic lows, thereby making new homes more affordable. increases in interest rates or decreases in the availability of mortgage financing could adversely affect the market for new homes. potential homebuyers may be less willing or able to pay the increased monthly costs resulting from higher interest rates or to obtain mortgage financing. lenders may increase the qualifications needed for mortgages or adjust their terms to address any increased credit risk. even if potential customers do not need financing, changes in interest rates and mortgage availability could make it harder for them to sell their current homes to potential buyers who need financing. these factors could adversely affect the sales or pricing of our homes and could also reduce the volume or margins in our financial services business. our financial services business could also be impacted to the extent we are unable to match interest rates and amounts on loans we have committed to originate through the various hedging strategies we employ. these developments have had, and may continue to have, a material adverse effect on the overall demand for new housing and thereby on the results of operations of our business. for example, during 2018, we experienced lower than expected conversions of traffic to signups, especially among first-time and move-up buyers, beginning in may 2018 when mortgage rates increased. the liquidity provided by fannie mae and freddie mac to the mortgage industry is also critical to the housing market. the impact of the federal government's conservatorship of fannie mae and freddie mac on the short-term and long-term demand for new housing remains unclear. any limitations or restrictions on the availability of financing by these agencies could adversely affect interest rates, mortgage financing, and our sales of new homes and mortgage loans. additionally, the availability of fha and va mortgage financing is an important factor in marketing some of our homes. mortgage interest expense and real estate taxes represent significant costs of homeownership, both of which were historically generally deductible for an individual's federal and, in some cases, state income taxes. in december 2017, a law commonly known as the tax cuts and jobs act (the "tax act") was enacted. while the tax act lowers the tax rates applicable to many businesses and individuals, it also, among other things, (i) limits the federal deduction for mortgage interest so that it only applies to the first $750,000 of a new mortgage (as compared to $1 million under previous tax law), (ii) introduced a $10,000 cap on the federal deduction for state and local taxes, including real estate taxes, and (iii) eliminated the federal deduction for interest on certain home equity loans. the tax act also increased the standard deduction for individuals. as a result, fewer individuals are expected to itemize their income tax deductions, which would mitigate the income tax advantages associated with homeownership for those individuals. the combination of these changes could reduce home ownership affordability and demand, especially in regions with higher housing prices or higher state and local income taxes. any further changes in income tax law which eliminates or reduces the income tax benefits associated with home ownership could have an adverse impact on our business. our success depends on our ability to acquire land suitable for residential homebuilding at reasonable prices, in accordance with our land investment criteria. the homebuilding industry is highly competitive for suitable land. the availability of finished and partially finished developed lots and undeveloped land for purchase that meet our internal criteria depends on a number of factors outside our control, including land availability in general, competition with other homebuilders and land buyers for desirable property, inflation in land prices, zoning, allowable housing density, and other regulatory requirements. should suitable lots or land become less available, the number of homes we may be able to build and sell could be reduced, and the cost of land could be increased, perhaps substantially, which could adversely impact our results of operations. our long-term ability to build homes depends on our acquiring land suitable for residential building at reasonable prices in locations where we want to build. we experience significant competition for suitable land as a result of land constraints in many of our markets. as competition for suitable land increases, and as available land is developed, the cost of acquiring suitable remaining land could rise, and the availability of suitable land at acceptable prices may decline. any land shortages or any decrease in the supply of suitable land at reasonable prices could limit our ability to develop new communities or result in increased land costs. we may not be able to pass through to our customers any increased land costs, which could adversely impact our revenues, earnings, and margins. 9 supply shortages and other risks related to the demand for skilled labor and building materials could increase costs and delay deliveries. the homebuilding industry is highly competitive for skilled labor. labor shortages in certain of our markets have become more acute in recent years as the supply chain adjusts to industry growth. additionally, the cost of certain building materials, especially lumber, steel, concrete, copper, and petroleum-based materials, is influenced by changes in local and global commodity prices as well as government regulation, such as government-imposed tariffs or trade restrictions on supplies such as steel and lumber. during 2019, we experienced increases in the prices of some building materials and shortages of skilled labor in some areas. increased costs or shortages of skilled labor and/or materials cause increases in construction costs and/or could cause construction delays. we may not be able to pass on increases in construction costs to customers and generally are unable to pass on any such increases to customers who have already entered into sales contracts as those sales contracts generally fix the price of the home at the time the contract is signed, which may be well in advance of the construction of the home. sustained increases in construction costs may, over time, erode our margins, and pricing competition may restrict our ability to pass on any such additional costs, thereby decreasing our margins. if the market value of our land drops significantly, our profits could decrease and result in write-downs of the carrying values of land we own. the market value of land can fluctuate significantly as a result of changing market conditions, and the measures we employ to manage inventory risk may not be adequate to insulate our operations from a severe drop in inventory values. we acquire land for expansion into new markets and for replacement of land inventory and expansion within our current markets. if housing demand decreases below what we anticipated when we acquired our inventory, we may not be able to make profits similar to what we have made in the past, we may experience less than anticipated profits, and/or we may not be able to recover our costs when we sell and build homes. when market conditions are such that land values are not appreciating, land option arrangements previously entered into may become less desirable, at which time we may elect to forego deposits and pre-acquisition costs and terminate the agreement. in the face of adverse market conditions, we may have substantial inventory carrying costs, we may have to write down our inventory to its fair value, and/or we may have to sell land or homes at a loss. at times we have been required to record significant write-downs of the carrying value of our land inventory, and we have elected not to exercise options to purchase land, even though that required us to forfeit deposits and write-off pre-acquisition costs. for example, we incurred land-related charges totaling $27.1 million , $99.4 million , $191.9 million in 2019 , 2018 , 2017 , respectively. although we have taken efforts to reduce our exposure to costs of that type, a certain amount of exposure is inherent in the homebuilding business. if market conditions were to deteriorate in the future, we could again be required to record significant write downs to our land inventory, which would decrease the asset values reflected on our balance sheet and materially and adversely affect our earnings and our stockholders' equity. we are subject to claims related to mortgage loans we sold in the secondary mortgage market that may be significant. our mortgage operations may be responsible for losses arising out of claims associated with mortgage loans originated and sold to investors in the event of errors or omissions relating to certain representations and warranties made by us that the loans met certain requirements, including representations as to underwriting standards, the type of collateral, the existence of primary mortgage insurance, and the validity of certain borrower representations in connection with the loan. to date, the significant majority of these claims made by investors against our mortgage operations relate to loans originated prior to 2009, during which inherently riskier loan products became more common in the origination market. we may also be required to indemnify underwriters that purchased and securitized loans originated by a former subsidiary of centex corporation ("centex"), which we acquired in 2009, for losses incurred by investors in those securitized loans based on similar breaches of representations and warranties. as of december 31, 2019, our mortgage subsidiaries were defendants in legal proceedings in which the plaintiffs are seeking indemnification for alleged breaches of representations and warranties made by the mortgage subsidiaries in the mortgage loan sale agreements and may also be subject to other similar claims for which legal proceedings had not been instituted as of december 31, 2019. the resolution of claims related to alleged breaches of these representations and warranties and repurchase claims could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. given the unsettled litigation, changes in values of underlying collateral over time, and other uncertainties regarding the ultimate resolution of these claims, actual costs could differ from our current estimates. accordingly, there can be no assurance that such reserves will not need to be increased in the future. 10 our inability to sell mortgages into the secondary market could significantly reduce our ability to sell homes unless we are willing to become a long-term investor in loans we originate. we sell substantially all of the residential mortgage loans we originate within a short period in the secondary mortgage market. if we were unable to sell loans into the secondary mortgage market or directly to fannie mae and freddie mac, we would have to either (a) curtail our origination of residential mortgage loans, which among other things, could significantly reduce our ability to sell homes, or (b) commit our own funds to long term investments in mortgage loans, which, in addition to requiring us to deploy substantial amounts of our own funds, could delay the time when we recognize revenues from home sales on our statements of operations. adverse capital and credit market conditions may significantly affect our access to capital and cost of capital. the capital and credit markets can experience significant volatility. we may need credit-related liquidity for the future development of our business and other capital needs. without sufficient liquidity, we may not be able to purchase additional land or develop land, which could adversely affect our financial results. at december 31, 2019 , we had cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash of $1.3 billion as well as $737.2 million available under our revolving credit facility, net of outstanding letters of credit. however, our internal sources of liquidity and revolving credit facility may prove to be insufficient, and, in such case, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us, or at all. another source of liquidity includes our ability to use letters of credit and surety bonds relating to certain performance-related obligations and as security for certain land option agreements and insurance programs. the majority of these letters of credit and surety bonds are in support of our land development and construction obligations to various municipalities, other government agencies, and utility companies related to the construction of roads, sewers, and other infrastructure. at december 31, 2019 , we had outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds totaling $262.8 million and $1.4 billion , respectively. these letters of credit are generally issued via our unsecured revolving credit facility, which contains certain financial covenants and other limitations. if we are unable to obtain letters of credit or surety bonds when required, or the conditions imposed by issuers increase significantly, our liquidity could be adversely affected. competition for homebuyers could reduce our deliveries or decrease our profitability. the u.s. housing industry is highly competitive. homebuilders compete for homebuyers in each of our markets with numerous national, regional, and local homebuilders on the basis of location, price, quality, reputation, design, community amenities, and our customers' overall sales and homeownership experiences. this competition with other homebuilders could reduce the number of homes we deliver or cause us to accept reduced margins to maintain sales volume. we also compete with resales of existing or foreclosed homes, housing speculators, and available rental housing. increased competitive conditions in the residential resale or rental market in the regions where we operate could decrease demand for new homes or unfavorably impact pricing for new homes. the loss of the services of members of our senior management or a significant number of our operating employees could negatively affect our business. our success depends upon the skills, experience, and active participation of our senior management, many of whom have been with the company for a significant number of years. if we were to lose members of our senior management, we might not be able to find appropriate replacements on a timely basis, and our operations could be negatively affected. also, the loss of a significant number of operating employees in key roles or geographies where we are not able to hire qualified replacements could have a material adverse effect on our business. our income tax provision and tax reserves may be insufficient if a taxing authority is successful in asserting positions that are contrary to our interpretations and related reserves, if any. significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes and our reserves for federal, state, and local taxes. in the ordinary course of business, there may be matters for which the ultimate outcome is uncertain. our evaluation of our tax matters is based on a number of factors, including relevant facts and circumstances, applicable tax law, correspondence with tax authorities during the course of audits, and effective settlement of audit issues. although we believe our approach to determining the tax treatment for such items is appropriate, no assurance can be given that the final tax authority review will not be materially different than that which is reflected in our income tax provision and related tax 11 reserves. such differences could have a material adverse effect on our income tax provision in the period in which such determination is made and, consequently, on our financial position, cash flows, or net income. we are periodically audited by various federal, state, and local authorities regarding tax matters. our current audits are in various stages of completion; however, no outcome for a particular audit can be determined with certainty prior to the conclusion of the audit, appeal, and, in some cases, litigation process. as each audit is concluded, adjustments, if any, are recorded in our financial statements in the period determined. to provide for potential tax exposures, we consider a variety of factors, including relevant facts and circumstances, applicable tax law, correspondence with taxing authorities, and effective settlement of audit issues. if these reserves are insufficient upon completion of an audit, there could be an adverse impact on our financial position, cash flows, and results of operations. we may not realize our deferred tax assets. as of december 31, 2019 , we had deferred tax assets, net of deferred tax liabilities, of $254.1 million , against which we provided a valuation allowance of $84.0 million . the ultimate realization of our deferred tax assets is dependent upon generating future taxable income. while we have recorded valuation allowances against certain of our deferred tax assets, the valuation allowances are subject to change as facts and circumstances change. our ability to utilize net operating losses ( nols ), built-in losses ( bils ), and tax credit carryforwards to offset our future taxable income or income tax would be limited if we were to undergo an ownership change within the meaning of section 382 of the internal revenue code (the irc ). in general, an ownership change occurs whenever the percentage of the stock of a corporation owned by 5-percent shareholders (within the meaning of section 382 of the irc) increases by more than 50 percentage points over the lowest percentage of the stock of such corporation owned by such 5-percent shareholders at any time over the testing period. an ownership change under section 382 of the irc would establish an annual limitation to the amount of nols, bils, and tax credit carryforwards we could utilize to offset our taxable income or income tax in any single year. the application of these limitations might prevent full utilization of the deferred tax assets attributable to our nols, bils, and tax credit carryforwards. to preserve our ability to utilize nols, bils, and other tax benefits in the future without a section 382 limitation, we adopted a shareholder rights plan, which is triggered upon certain transfers of our securities, and amended our by-laws to prohibit certain transfers of our securities. our shareholder rights plan, as amended, expires june 1, 2022, unless our board of directors and shareholders approve an amendment to extend the term prior thereto. notwithstanding the foregoing measures, there can be no assurance that we will not undergo an ownership change within the meaning of section 382. the value of our deferred tax assets is also dependent upon the tax rates expected to be in effect at the time taxable income is expected to be generated. a decrease in enacted corporate tax rates in our major jurisdictions, especially the u.s. federal corporate tax rate, would decrease the value of our deferred tax assets, which could be material. we have significant intangible assets. if these assets become impaired, then our profits and shareholders' equity may be reduced. we have significant intangible assets related to business combinations. if the carrying value of intangible assets is deemed impaired, the carrying value is written down to fair value. this would result in a charge to our earnings. if management's expectations of future results and cash flows decrease significantly, impairments of the remaining intangible assets may occur. government regulations could increase the cost and limit the availability of our development and homebuilding projects or affect our related financial services operations and adversely affect our business or financial results. our operations are subject to building, safety, environmental, and other regulations imposed and enforced by various federal, state, and local governing authorities. new housing developments may also be subject to various assessments for schools, parks, streets, and other public improvements. these assessments have increased over recent years as other funding mechanisms have decreased causing local governing authorities to seek greater contributions from homebuilders. all of these factors can cause an increase in the effective cost of our homes. we also are subject to a variety of local, state, and federal laws and regulations concerning protection of health, safety, and the environment. the impact of environmental laws varies depending upon the prior uses of the building site or adjoining properties and may be greater in areas with less supply where undeveloped land or desirable alternatives are less available. 12 these matters may result in delays, may cause us to incur substantial compliance, remediation and other costs, and can prohibit or severely restrict development and homebuilding activity in environmentally sensitive regions or areas. more stringent requirements could be imposed in the future on homebuilders and developers, thereby increasing the cost of compliance. our financial services operations are also subject to numerous federal, state, and local laws and regulations. these include eligibility requirements for participation in federal loan programs and compliance with consumer lending and similar requirements such as disclosure requirements, prohibitions against discrimination, and real estate settlement procedures. they also subject our operations to examination by applicable agencies, pursuant to which those agencies may limit our ability to provide mortgage financing or title services to potential purchasers of our homes. for our homes to qualify for fha or va mortgages, we must satisfy valuation standards and site, material, and construction requirements of those agencies. homebuilding is subject to warranty and other claims in the ordinary course of business that can be significant. as a homebuilder, we are subject to home warranty, construction defect, and other claims arising in the ordinary course of business. we rely on subcontractors to perform the actual construction of our homes and, in some cases, to select and obtain building materials. despite our detailed specifications and quality control procedures, in some cases, subcontractors may use improper construction processes or defective materials. if defective materials are used, it can result in the need to perform extensive repairs to large numbers of homes. we record warranty and other reserves relating to the homes we sell based on historical experience in our markets and our judgment of the qualitative risks associated with the types of homes built. we have, and require our subcontractors to have, general liability, property, errors and omissions, workers compensation, and other business insurance. these insurance policies protect us against a portion of our risk of loss from claims, subject to certain self-insured per occurrence and aggregate retentions, deductibles, and available policy limits. in certain instances, we may offer our subcontractors the opportunity to purchase insurance through one of our captive insurance subsidiaries or participate in a project-specific insurance program provided by us. policies issued by our captive insurance subsidiaries represent self-insurance of these risks by us. we reserve for costs to cover our self-insured and deductible amounts under these policies and for any costs of claims and lawsuits based on an analysis of our historical claims, which includes an estimate of claims incurred but not yet reported. because of the uncertainties inherent in these matters, we cannot provide assurance that our insurance coverage, our subcontractor arrangements, and our reserves will be adequate to address all our warranty and construction defect claims in the future. contractual indemnities can be difficult to enforce, we may be responsible for applicable self-insured retentions, and some types of claims may not be covered by insurance or may exceed applicable coverage limits. additionally, the coverage offered by and the availability of general liability insurance for construction defects are currently costly and limited. we have responded to increases in insurance costs and coverage limitations by increasing our self-insured retentions. there can be no assurance that coverage will not be further restricted or become more costly. additionally, we are exposed to counterparty default risk related to our subcontractors, our insurance carriers, and our subcontractors' insurance carriers. natural disasters, severe weather conditions and changing climate patterns could delay deliveries, increase costs, and decrease demand for new homes in affected areas. our homebuilding operations are located in many areas that are subject to natural disasters and severe weather. the occurrence of natural disasters or severe weather conditions can delay new home deliveries, increase costs by damaging inventories, reduce the availability of materials, and negatively impact the demand for new homes in affected areas. furthermore, if our insurance does not fully cover business interruptions or losses resulting from these events, our earnings, liquidity, or capital resources could be adversely affected. in 2019 and 2018, several hurricanes caused disruptions in our south eastern coastal markets but did not result in a material impact to our results of operations. in addition, while they also did not have a material impact on our business in 2019, the increased prevalence of forest fires in our western markets have caused disruptions to our sales operations and development delays. as local governmental authorities and utilities are required to spend increasing amounts of their resources responding to and remediating weather and climate related events, their ability to provide approvals and service to new housing communities may be impaired. government restrictions, standards, or regulations intended to reduce greenhouse gas emissions or potential climate change impacts are likely to result in restrictions on land development in certain areas and may increase energy, transportation, or raw material costs, which could reduce our housing gross profit margins and adversely affect our results of operations. for example, as the risk of flooding in coastal and other flood prone areas increases, local governments may increase the requirements on new home builders for zoning approvals and restrict areas where new homes may be built, resulting in increased development costs and greater competition for more desirable land parcels. 13 inflation may result in increased costs that we may not be able to recoup. inflation can adversely affect us by increasing costs of land, materials, and labor. in addition, significant inflation is often accompanied by higher interest rates, which may have a negative impact on demand for our homes. in an inflationary environment, economic conditions and other market factors may make it difficult for us to raise home prices enough to keep up with the rate of inflation, which would reduce our profit margins. although the rate of inflation has been historically low for the last several years, we currently are experiencing increases in the prices of labor and certain materials above the general inflation rate. information technology failures or data security breaches could harm our business. we use information technology and other computer resources to carry out important operational activities and to maintain our business records. our computer systems, including our back-up systems, are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches (through cyberattacks from computer hackers and sophisticated organizations), catastrophic events such as fires, tornadoes and hurricanes, and usage errors by our employees or cyber-attacks or errors by third party vendors who have access to our confidential data, or that of our customers. while we are continuously working to improve our information technology systems and provide employee awareness training around phishing, malware, and other cyber risks to enhance our levels of protection, to the extent possible, against cyber risks and security breaches, and monitor to prevent, detect, address and mitigate the risk of unauthorized access, misuse, computer viruses and other events that could have an impact on our business, there is no assurance that advances in computer capabilities, new technologies, methods or other developments will detect or prevent security breaches and safeguard access to proprietary or confidential information. if our computer systems and our back-up systems are damaged, breached, or cease to function properly, or if there are intrusions or failures of critical infrastructure such as the power grid or communications systems, we could suffer extended interruptions in our operations or unintentionally allow misappropriation of proprietary or confidential information (including information about our employees, homebuyers and business partners). any such disruption could damage our reputation, result in market value declines, lead to legal proceedings against us by affected third parties resulting in penalties or fines, and require us to incur significant costs to remediate or otherwise resolve these issues. we can be injured by improper acts of persons over whom we do not have control or by the attempt to impose liabilities or obligations of third parties on us. although we expect all of our subcontractors, employees, officers, and directors to comply at all times with all applicable laws, rules, and regulations, there may be instances in which subcontractors or others through whom we do business engage in practices that do not comply with applicable laws, regulations, or governmental guidelines. when we learn of practices that do not comply with applicable laws or regulations, including practices relating to homes, buildings, or multifamily rental properties we build or finance, we move actively to stop the non-complying practices as soon as possible, and we have taken disciplinary action regarding subcontractors and employees of ours who were aware of non-complying practices and did not take steps to address them, including in some instances terminating their employment. however, regardless of the steps we take after we learn of practices that do not comply with applicable laws or regulations, we can in some instances be subject to fines or other governmental penalties, and our reputation can be injured, due to the practices' having taken place. the homes we sell are built by employees of subcontractors and other contract parties. we do not have the ability to control what these contract parties pay their employees or subcontractors or the work rules they impose on their employees or subcontractors. however, various governmental agencies are trying to hold contract parties like us responsible for violations of wage and hour laws and other work-related laws by firms whose employees are performing contracted services. governmental rulings or changes in state or local laws that make us responsible for labor practices by our subcontractors could create substantial exposures for us in situations that are not within our control. negative publicity could negatively impact sales, which could cause our revenues or results of operations to decline. our business strategy relies heavily on our reputation and brands, which are critical to our success. unfavorable media or investor and analyst reports related to our industry, company, brand, marketing, personnel, operations, business performance, or prospects may affect our stock price and the performance of our business, regardless of its accuracy or inaccuracy. furthermore, the speed at which negative publicity is disseminated has increased dramatically through the use of electronic communication, including social media outlets, websites and other digital platforms. our success in maintaining and enhancing our brand depends on our ability to adapt to this rapidly changing media environment. adverse publicity or negative 14 commentary from any media outlets could damage our reputation and reduce the demand for our homes, which would adversely affect our business. in addition, we can be affected by poor relations with the residents of communities we develop because efforts made by us to resolve issues or disputes that may arise in connection with the operation or development of their communities, or in connection with the transition of a homeowners association, could be deemed unsatisfactory by the affected residents and subsequent actions by these residents could adversely affect sales or our reputation. in addition, we could decide or be required to make material expenditures related to the settlement of such issues or disputes, which could adversely affect our results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are subject to market risk on our debt instruments primarily due to fluctuations in interest rates. we utilize both fixed-rate and variable-rate debt. for fixed-rate debt, changes in interest rates generally affect the fair value of the debt instrument but not our earnings or cash flows. conversely, for variable-rate debt, changes in interest rates generally do not affect the fair value of the debt instrument but could affect our earnings and cash flows. except in very limited circumstances, we do not have an obligation to prepay our debt prior to maturity. as a result, interest rate risk and changes in fair value should not have a significant impact on our fixed-rate debt until we are required or elect to refinance or repurchase such debt. the following tables set forth the principal cash flows by scheduled maturity, weighted-average interest rates, and estimated fair value of our debt obligations as of december 31, 2019 and 2018 ($000's omitted). as of december 31, 2019 for the years ending december 31, 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 thereafter total fair value rate-sensitive liabilities: fixed rate debt $ 21,327 $ 447,712 $ 10,295 $ $ $ 2,300,000 $ 2,779,334 $ 3,152,046 average interest rate 2.09 % 4.17 % 0.39 % % % 5.90 % 5.57 % variable rate debt (a) $ 326,573 $ $ $ $ $ $ 326,573 $ 326,573 average interest rate 3.59 % % % % % % 3.59 % as of december 31, 2018 for the years ending december 31, 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 thereafter total fair value rate-sensitive liabilities: fixed rate debt $ 24,088 $ 9,968 $ 706,720 $ $ $ 2,300,000 $ 3,040,776 $ 2,898,606 average interest rate 5.31 % 3.81 % 4.28 % % % 5.90 % 5.51 % variable rate debt (a) $ 348,949 $ $ $ $ $ $ 348,949 $ 348,948 average interest rate 4.41 % % % % % % 4.41 % (a) includes the pulte mortgage repurchase agreement. there were no borrowings outstanding under our revolving credit facility at either december 31, 2019 or 2018 . 38 derivative instruments and hedging activities pulte mortgage is exposed to market risks from commitments to lend, movements in interest rates, and canceled or modified commitments to lend. a commitment to lend at a specific interest rate (an interest rate lock commitment) is a derivative financial instrument (interest rate is locked to the borrower). the interest rate risk continues through the loan closing and until the loan is sold to an investor. we are generally not exposed to variability in cash flows of derivative instruments for more than approximately 60 days. in periods of rising interest rates, the length of exposure will generally increase due to customers locking in an interest rate sooner as opposed to letting the interest rate float. in periods of low or decreasing interest rates, the length of exposure will also generally increase as customers desire to lock before the possibility of rising rates. in order to reduce these risks, we use other derivative financial instruments, principally cash forward placement contracts on mortgage-backed securities and whole loan investor commitments, to economically hedge the interest rate lock commitment. we generally enter into one of the aforementioned derivative financial instruments upon accepting interest rate lock commitments. changes in the fair value of interest rate lock commitments and the other derivative financial instruments are recognized in financial services revenues. we do not use any derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. at december 31, 2019 and 2018 , residential mortgage loans available-for-sale had an aggregate fair value of $509.0 million and $461.4 million , respectively. at december 31, 2019 and 2018 , we had aggregate interest rate lock commitments of $255.3 million and $285.0 million , respectively, which were originated at interest rates prevailing at the date of commitment. unexpired forward contracts totaled $518.2 million and $511.0 million at december 31, 2019 and 2018 , respectively, and whole loan investor commitments totaled $200.7 million and $187.8 million , respectively, at such dates. hypothetical changes in the fair values of our financial instruments arising from immediate parallel shifts in long-term mortgage rates would not be material to our financial results due to the offsetting nature in the movements in fair value of our financial instruments. special notes concerning forward-looking statements as a cautionary note, except for the historical information contained herein, certain matters discussed in item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, and item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk , are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. such forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause our actual results, performance, prospects or opportunities, as well as those of the markets we serve or intend to serve, to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, these statements. you can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate to matters of a strictly factual or historical nature and generally discuss or relate to forecasts, estimates or other expectations regarding future events. generally, the words believe, expect, intend, estimate, anticipate, plan, project, may, can, could, might, should , will and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, including statements related to any impairment charge and the impacts or effects thereof, expected operating and performing results, planned transactions, planned objectives of management, future developments or conditions in the industries in which we participate and other trends, developments and uncertainties that may affect our business in the future. such risks, uncertainties and other factors include, among other things: interest rate changes and the availability of mortgage financing; competition within the industries in which we operate; the availability and cost of land and other raw materials used by us in our homebuilding operations; the impact of any changes to our strategy in responding to the cyclical nature of the industry, including any changes regarding our land positions and the levels of our land spend; the availability and cost of insurance covering risks associated with our businesses; shortages and the cost of labor; weather related slowdowns; slow growth initiatives and/or local building moratoria; governmental regulation directed at or affecting the housing market, the homebuilding industry or construction activities; uncertainty in the mortgage lending industry, including revisions to underwriting standards and repurchase requirements associated with the sale of mortgage loans; the interpretation of or changes to tax, labor and environmental laws which could have a greater impact on our effective tax rate or the value of our deferred tax assets than we anticipate; economic changes nationally or in our local markets, including inflation, deflation, changes in consumer confidence and preferences and the state of the market for homes in general; legal or regulatory proceedings or claims; our ability to generate sufficient cash flow in order to successfully implement our capital allocation priorities; required accounting changes; terrorist acts and other acts of war; and other factors of national, regional and global scale, including those of a political, economic, business and competitive nature. see item 1a risk factors for a further discussion of these and other risks and uncertainties applicable to our businesses. we undertake no duty to update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or changes in our expectations. 39quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are subject to interest rate risk on our long-term debt to the extent long-term rates decline. the following tables set forth, as of december 31, 2001 and 2000, our long-term debt obligations, principal cash flows by scheduled maturity, weighted-average interest rates and estimated fair market value ($000 omitted). as of december 31, 2001 for the years ended december 31, there- fair 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 after total value rate sensitive liabilities: fixed interest rate debt: pulte homes, inc., public debt instruments $ $ 275,000 $ 112,000 $ 125,000 $ 69,810 $ 1,130,887 $ 1,712,697 $ 1,744,726 average interest rate 8.59 % 8.38 % 7.30 % 9.00 % 8.37 % 8.36 % pulte home corporation, other non-recourse debt $ 3,147 $ 6,100 $ 3,000 $ 2,758 $ $ $ 15,005 $ 15,005 average interest rate 4.48 % 7.78 % 9.00 % 9.00 % 7.56 % as of december 31, 2000 for the years ended december 31, there- fair 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 after total value rate sensitive liabilities: fixed interest rate debt: pulte homes, inc., public debt instruments $ $ $ 275,000 $ 112,000 $ 125,000 $ 150,000 $ 662,000 $ 635,855 average interest rate 8.59 % 8.38 % 7.30 % 7.63 % 8.09 % pulte diversified companies, inc., unsecured promissory note $ 7,000 $ 7,000 $ 7,000 average interest rate 8.00 % 8.00 % pulte home corporation, other non-recourse debt $ 10,878 $ 428 $ 11,306 $ 11,306 average interest rate 7.51 % 3.00 % 7.34 % 27 table of contents item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk (continued) pmc, operating as a mortgage banker, is also subject to interest rate risk. interest rate risk begins when we commit to lend money to a customer at agreed upon terms (i.e., commits to lend at a certain interest rate for a certain period of time). the interest rate risk continues through the loan closing and until the loan is sold to an investor. during 2001 and 2000, this period of interest rate exposure averaged approximately 60 days. in periods of rising interest rates, the length of exposure will generally increase due to customers locking in an interest rate sooner as opposed to letting the interest rate float. we minimize interest rate risk by (i) financing the loans via a variable rate borrowing agreement tied to the federal funds rate and (ii) hedging our loan commitments and closed loans through derivative financial instruments with off-balance sheet risk. these financial instruments include cash forward placement contracts on mortgage-backed securities, whole loan investor commitments, options on treasury future contracts and options on cash forward placement contracts on mortgage-backed securities. we do not use any derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. hypothetical changes in the fair values of our financial instruments arising from immediate parallel shifts in long-term mortgage rates of plus 50, 100 and 150 basis points would not be material to our financial results. our aggregate net equity investment in mexico approximated $61.1 million at december 31, 2001. this investment, which is exposed to foreign currency exchange risk, could devalue by as much as $10 million in 2002, assuming a hypothetical 18% annualized devaluation of the mexican peso against the u.s. dollar during 2002. our aggregate net investment in argentina approximated $20.1 million at december 31, 2001. this investment is exposed to foreign currency exchange risk. it is unclear at this time how the argentine financial and currency markets will be affected in 2002 as a result of the argentine government decision to de-link the valuation of the argentine peso from the u. s. dollar. it is therefore unclear what effect this may have on the continuing value of our investment in argentina. special notes concerning forward-looking statements as a cautionary note, except for the historical information contained herein, certain matters discussed in item 7., management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and item 7a., quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. such matters involve risks and uncertainties, including: our exposure to certain market risks, changes in economic conditions, tax and interest rates, increases in raw material and labor costs, issues and timing surrounding land entitlement and development, weather conditions, government regulations and environmental matters, as well as, general competitive factors, that may cause actual results to differ materially; and our ability to integrate the recently acquired business operations of del webb corporation, including del webb activities, management and corporate culture, with our own, and our ability to develop and manage large-scale active adult communities which differ from our historical homebuilding business. 28 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are subject to interest rate risk on our rate-sensitive financing to the extent long-term rates decline. the following tables set forth, as of december 31, 2002 and 2001, our rate-sensitive financing obligations, principal cash flows by scheduled maturity, weighted-average interest rates and estimated fair market value ($000 omitted). as of december 31, 2002 for the years ended december 31, there- fair 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 after total value rate sensitive liabilities: fixed interest rate debt: senior notes and subordinated notes $ 275,000 $ 112,000 $ 125,000 $ $ $ 1,395,976 $ 1,907,976 $ 2,006,173 average interest rate 8.59 % 8.38 % 7.30 % 8.46 % 8.23 % limited recourse collateralized financing $ 59,563 $ 41,528 $ 31,131 $ 9,128 $ 1,350 $ 2,826 $ 145,526 $ 145,526 average interest rate 5.27 % 5.53 % 6.12 % 2.16 % 4.00 % 4.00 % 5.30 % as of december 31, 2001 for the years ended december 31, there- fair 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 after total value rate sensitive liabilities: fixed interest rate debt: senior notes and subordinated notes $ $ 275,000 $ 112,000 $ 125,000 $ 69,810 $ 1,130,887 $ 1,712,697 $ 1,744,726 average interest rate 8.59 % 8.38 % 7.30 % 9.00 % 8.37 % 8.36 % limited recourse collateralized financing $ 17,556 $ 7,531 $ 4,446 $ 5,894 $ 1,350 $ 2,826 $ 39,603 $ 39,603 average interest rate 6.42 % 6.96 % 7.20 % 5.06 % 4.00 % 4.00 % 6.15 % pulte mortgage, operating as a mortgage banker, is also subject to interest rate risk. interest rate risk begins when we commit to lend money to a customer at agreed-upon terms (i.e., commit to lend at a certain interest rate for a certain period of time). the interest rate risk continues through the loan closing and until the loan is sold to an investor. during 2002 and 2001, this period of interest rate exposure averaged approximately 60 days. in periods of rising interest rates, the length of exposure will generally increase due to customers locking in an interest rate sooner as opposed to letting the interest rate float. we minimize interest rate risk by (i) financing the loans via a variable rate borrowing agreement tied to the federal funds rate and (ii) hedging our loan commitments and closed loans through derivative financial instruments with off-balance sheet risk. these financial instruments include cash forward placement contracts on mortgage-backed securities, whole loan investor commitments, options on treasury future contracts and options on cash forward placement contracts on mortgage-backed securities. we do not use any derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. hypothetical changes in the fair values of our financial instruments arising from immediate parallel shifts in long-term mortgage rates of plus 50, 100 and 150 basis points would not be material to our financial results. our aggregate net investments exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk include our operations in mexico which approximated $61.1 million, our mortgage banking joint venture investment in mexico which approximated $15.8 million and our operations in argentina which approximated $13.1 million. 26 table of contents special notes concerning forward-looking statements as a cautionary note, except for the historical information contained herein, certain matters discussed in item 7., management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and item 7a., quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk , are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. such forward-looking statements involve known risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from our future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. such factors include, among other things, (1) general economic and business conditions; (2) interest rate changes and the availability of mortgage financing; (3) the relative stability of debt and equity markets; (4) competition; (5) the availability and cost of land and other raw materials used in our homebuilding operations; (6) the availability and cost of insurance covering risks associated with our business; (7) shortages and the cost of labor; (8) weather related slowdowns; (9) slow growth initiatives and/or local building moratoria; (10) governmental regulation, including the interpretation of tax, labor and environmental laws; (11) changes in consumer confidence and preferences; (12) required accounting changes; (13) terrorist acts and other acts of war; and (14) other factors over which we have little or no control. 27 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are subject to interest rate risk on our rate-sensitive financing to the extent long-term rates decline. the following tables set forth, as of december 31, 2003 and 2002, our rate-sensitive financing obligations, principal cash flows by scheduled maturity, weighted-average interest rates and estimated fair market value ($000 omitted). as of december 31, 2003 for the years ended december 31, there- fair 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 after total value rate sensitive liabilities: fixed interest rate debt: senior notes and subordinated notes $ 185,503 $ 125,000 $ $ $ $ 1,848,563 $ 2,159,066 $ 2,387,945 average interest rate 9.12 % 7.0 % 7.29 % 7.45 % limited recourse collateralized financing $ 29,259 $ 33,865 $ 13,267 $ 2,367 $ 2,354 $ 2,143 $ 83,255 $ 83,255 average interest rate 2.52 % 6.00 % 3.50 % 5.09 % 5.24 % 4.78 % 4.31 % as of december 31, 2002 for the years ended december 31, there- fair 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 after total value rate sensitive liabilities: fixed interest rate debt: senior notes and subordinated notes $ 275,000 $ 112,000 $ 125,000 $ $ $ 1,395,976 $ 1,907,976 $ 2,006,173 average interest rate 8.59 % 8.38 % 7.3 % 8.46 % 8.23 % limited recourse collateralized financing $ 59,563 $ 41,528 $ 31,131 $ 9,128 $ 1,350 $ 2,826 $ 145,526 $ 145,526 average interest rate 5.27 % 5.53 % 6.12 % 2.16 % 4.00 % 4.00 % 5.30 % pulte mortgage, operating as a mortgage banker, is also subject to interest rate risk. interest rate risk begins when we commit to lend money to a customer at agreed-upon terms (i.e., commit to lend at a certain interest rate for a certain period of time). the interest rate risk continues through the loan closing and until the loan is sold to an investor. during 2003 and 2002, this period of interest rate exposure averaged approximately 60 days. in periods of rising interest rates, the length of exposure will generally increase due to customers locking in an interest rate sooner as opposed to letting the interest rate float. we minimize interest rate risk by (i) financing the loans via a variable rate borrowing agreement tied to the federal funds rate and (ii) hedging our loan commitments and closed loans through derivative financial instruments. these financial instruments include cash forward placement contracts on mortgage-backed securities, whole loan investor commitments, options on treasury future contracts and options on cash forward placement contracts on mortgage-backed securities. we do not use any derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. hypothetical changes in the fair values of our financial instruments arising from immediate parallel shifts in long-term mortgage rates of plus 50, 100 and 150 basis points would not be material to our financial results. our aggregate net investments exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk include our operations in mexico which approximated $65.8 million, our mortgage banking joint venture investment in mexico which approximated $17.5 million and our operations in argentina which approximated $13.2 million. 24 table of contents special notes concerning forward-looking statements as a cautionary note, except for the historical information contained herein, certain matters discussed in item 7., management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and item 7a., quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk , are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. such forward-looking statements involve known risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from our future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. such factors include, among other things, (1) general economic and business conditions; (2) interest rate changes and the availability of mortgage financing; (3) the relative stability of debt and equity markets; (4) competition; (5) the availability and cost of land and other raw materials used in our homebuilding operations; (6) the availability and cost of insurance covering risks associated with our business; (7) shortages and the cost of labor; (8) weather related slowdowns; (9) slow growth initiatives and/or local building moratoria; (10) governmental regulation, including the interpretation of tax, labor and environmental laws; (11) changes in consumer confidence and preferences; (12) required accounting changes; (13) terrorist acts and other acts of war; and (14) other factors over which we have little or no control. 25 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are subject to interest rate risk on our rate-sensitive financing to the extent long-term rates decline. the following tables set forth, as of december 31, 2004 and 2003, our rate-sensitive financing obligations, principal cash flows by scheduled maturity, weighted-average interest rates and estimated fair market value ($000 omitted). as of december 31, 2004 for the years ended december 31, there- fair 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 after total value rate sensitive liabilities: fixed interest rate debt: senior notes and subordinated notes $ 125,000 $ $ $ $ 400,000 $ 2,348,563 $ 2,873,563 $ 3,124,413 average interest rate 7.3 % 4.88 % 6.86 % 6.6 % limited recourse collateralized financing $ 60,392 $ 13,309 $ 4,699 $ 2,350 $ 1,113 $ $ 81,863 $ 81,863 average interest rate 1.48 % 1.97 % 4.17 % 5.25 % 5.25 % 1.87 % 27 table of contents as of december 31, 2003 for the years ended december 31, there- fair 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 after total value rate sensitive liabilities: fixed interest rate debt: senior notes and subordinated notes $ 185,503 $ 125,000 $ $ $ $ 1,848,563 $ 2,159,066 $ 2,387,945 average interest rate 9.12 % 7.0 % 7.29 % 7.45 % limited recourse collateralized financing $ 29,259 $ 33,865 $ 13,267 $ 2,367 $ 2,354 $ 2,143 $ 83,255 $ 83,255 average interest rate 2.52 % 6.00 % 3.50 % 5.09 % 5.24 % 4.78 % 4.31 % pulte mortgage, operating as a mortgage banker, is also subject to interest rate risk. interest rate risk begins when we commit to lend money to a customer at agreed-upon terms (i.e., commit to lend at a certain interest rate for a certain period of time). the interest rate risk continues through the loan closing and until the loan is sold to an investor. during 2004 and 2003, this period of interest rate exposure averaged approximately 60 days. in periods of rising interest rates, the length of exposure will generally increase due to customers locking in an interest rate sooner as opposed to letting the interest rate float. we minimize interest rate risk by (i) financing the loans via a variable rate borrowing agreement tied to the federal funds rate and (ii) hedging our loan commitments and closed loans through derivative financial instruments. these financial instruments include cash forward placement contracts on mortgage-backed securities, whole loan investor commitments, options on treasury future contracts and options on cash forward placement contracts on mortgage-backed securities. we do not use any derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. hypothetical changes in the fair values of our financial instruments arising from immediate parallel shifts in long-term mortgage rates of plus 50, 100 and 150 basis points would not be material to our financial results. at december 31, 2004, our aggregate net investments exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk include our operations in mexico, which approximated $72.2 million, and our mortgage banking joint venture investment in mexico, which approximated $21.1 million. special notes concerning forward-looking statements as a cautionary note, except for the historical information contained herein, certain matters discussed in item 7., management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and item 7a., quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk , are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 (the reform act ). forward-looking statements give current expectations or forecasts of future events. words such as anticipate , expect , intend , plan , believe , seek , estimate , and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with discussions of future operating or financial performance signify forward-looking statements. from time to time, we also may provide oral or written forward-looking statements in other materials released to the public. such statements are made in good faith by us pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the reform act. such forward-looking statements involve known risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from our future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. such factors include, among other things, (1) general economic and business conditions; (2) interest rate changes and the availability of mortgage financing; (3) the relative stability of debt and equity markets; (4) competition; (5) the availability and cost of land and other raw materials used in our homebuilding operations; (6) the availability and cost of insurance covering risks associated with our business; (7) shortages and the cost of labor; (8) weather related slowdowns; (9) slow growth initiatives and/or local building moratoria; (10) state and federal governmental regulations, including the interpretation of tax, labor and environmental laws; (11) changes in consumer confidence and preferences; (12) required accounting changes; (13) terrorist acts and other acts of war; and (14) other factors over which we have little or no control. 28 table of contentsrisk factors discussion of our business and operations included in this annual report on form 10-k should be read together with the risk factors set forth below. they describe various risks and uncertainties to which we are, or may become subject. these risks and uncertainties, together with other factors described elsewhere in this report, have the potential to affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, strategies or prospects in a material and adverse manner. downward changes in general economic, real estate construction or other business conditions could adversely affect our business or our financial results. the residential homebuilding industry is sensitive to changes in economic conditions and other factors, such as the level of employment, consumer confidence, consumer income, availability of financing and interest rate levels. adverse changes in any of these conditions generally, or in the markets where we operate, could decrease demand and pricing for new homes in these areas or result in customer cancellations of pending contracts, which could adversely affect the number of home deliveries we make or reduce the prices we can charge for homes, either of which could result in a decrease in our revenues and earnings. the homebuilding industry has not experienced an economic down cycle in a number of years, which may have resulted in an overvaluation of land and new homes. although the homebuilding business historically has been cyclical, it has not undergone an economic down cycle in a number of years. further, in recent years, land and home prices rose significantly in many of our markets. this has led some people to assert that the prices of land, new homes and the stock prices of homebuilding companies may be inflated and may decline if the demand for land and new homes weakens. a decline in the prices for land and new homes could adversely affect both our revenues and margins. a decline in our stock price could make raising capital through stock issuances more difficult and expensive. future increases in interest rates, reductions in mortgage availability or increases in the effective costs of owning a home could prevent potential customers from buying our homes and adversely affect our business or our financial results. most of our customers finance their home purchases through our mortgage bank. interest rates have been at historical lows for several years. many homebuyers have also chosen adjustable rate, interest only or mortgages that involve initial lower monthly payments. as a result, new homes have been more affordable. increases in interest rates or decreases in availability of mortgage financing, however, could reduce the market for new homes. potential homebuyers may be less willing or able to pay the increased monthly costs or to obtain mortgage financing that exposes them to interest rate changes. lenders may increase the qualifications needed for mortgages or adjust their terms to address any increased credit risk. even if potential customers do not need financing, changes in interest rates and mortgage availability could make it harder for them to sell their current homes to potential buyers who need financing. these factors could adversely affect the sales or pricing of our homes and could also reduce the volume or margins in our financial services business. our financial services business could be impacted to the extent we are unable to match interest rates and amounts on loans we have committed to originate through the various hedging strategies we employ. in addition, we believe that the availability of fha and va mortgage financing is an important factor in marketing some of our homes. we also believe that the liquidity provided by fannie mae and freddie mac to the mortgage industry is important to the housing market. however, the federal government has recently sought to reduce the size of the home-loan portfolios and operations of these two government-sponsored enterprises. any limitations or restrictions on the availability of the financing or on the liquidity by them could adversely affect interest rates, mortgage financing and our sales of new homes and mortgage loans. our future growth may require additional capital, which may not be available. our operations require significant amounts of cash. we may be required to seek additional capital, whether from sales of equity or debt or additional bank borrowings, for the future growth and development of our business. we can give no assurance as to the availability of such additional capital or, if available, whether it would be on terms acceptable to us. moreover, the indentures for most of our outstanding public debt and the covenants of our revolving credit facility contain provisions that may restrict the debt we may incur in the future. if we are not successful in obtaining sufficient capital, it could reduce our sales and may adversely affect our future growth and financial results. 9 table of contents competition for homebuyers could reduce our deliveries or decrease our profitability. the housing industry in the united states is highly competitive. we compete primarily on the basis of price, reputation, design, location and quality of our homes. we compete in each of our markets with numerous national, regional and local homebuilders. this competition with other homebuilders could reduce the number of homes we deliver, or cause us to accept reduced margins in order to maintain sales volume. we also compete with resales of existing used or foreclosed homes, housing speculators and available rental housing. increased competitive conditions in the residential resale or rental market in the regions where we operate could decrease demand for new homes and increase cancellations of sales contracts in backlog. our success depends on our ability to acquire land suitable for residential homebuilding at reasonable prices, in accordance with our land investment criteria. the homebuilding industry is highly competitive for suitable land. the availability of finished and partially finished developed lots and undeveloped land for purchase that meet our internal criteria depends on a number of factors outside our control, including land availability in general, competition with other homebuilders and land buyers for desirable property, inflation in land prices, and zoning, allowable housing density and other regulatory requirements. should suitable lots or land become less available, the number of homes we may be able to build and sell could be reduced, and the cost of land could be increased, perhaps substantially, which could adversely impact our results of operations. our long-term ability to build homes depends on our acquiring land suitable for residential building at reasonable prices in locations where we want to build. over the past few years, we have experienced an increase in competition for suitable land as a result of land constraints in many of our markets. as competition for suitable land increases, and as available land is developed, the cost of acquiring suitable remaining land could rise, and the availability of suitable land at acceptable prices may decline. any land shortages or any decrease in the supply of suitable land at reasonable prices could limit our ability to develop new communities or result in increased land costs. we may not be able to pass through to our customers any increased land costs, which could adversely impact our revenues, earnings, and margins. supply shortages and other risks related to the demand for skilled labor and building materials could increase costs and delay deliveries. the homebuilding industry is highly competitive for skilled labor and materials. increased costs or shortages of skilled labor and/or lumber, framing, concrete, steel and other building materials could cause increases in construction costs and construction delays. we generally are unable to pass on increases in construction costs to those customers who have already entered into sale contracts, as those sales contracts generally fix the price of the home at the time the contract is signed, which may be well in advance of the construction of the home. sustained increases in construction costs may, over time, erode our margins, and pricing competition for materials and labor may restrict our ability to pass on any additional costs, thereby decreasing our margins. government regulations could increase the cost and limit the availability of our development and homebuilding projects or affect our related financial services operations and adversely affect our business or financial results. our operations are subject to building, environmental and other regulations of various federal, state, and local governing authorities. for our homes to qualify for fha or va mortgages, we must satisfy valuation standards and site, material and construction requirements of those agencies. our compliance with federal, state, and local laws relating to protection of the environment has had, to date, no material effect upon capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. more stringent requirements could be imposed in the future on homebuilders and developers, thereby increasing the cost of compliance. new housing developments may be subject to various assessments for schools, parks, streets and other public improvements. these can cause an increase in the effective prices for our homes. in addition, increases in property tax rates by local governmental authorities, as recently experienced in response to reduced federal and state funding, can adversely affect the ability of potential customers to obtain financing or their desire to purchase new homes. 10 table of contents government regulations could increase the cost and limit the availability of our development and homebuilding projects or affect our related financial services operations and adversely affect our business or financial results. (continued) we also are subject to a variety of local, state and federal laws and regulations concerning protection of health, safety and the environment. the impact of environmental laws varies depending upon the prior uses of the building site or adjoining properties and may be greater in areas with less supply where undeveloped land or desirable alternatives are less available. these matters may result in delays, may cause us to incur substantial compliance, remediation and other costs, and can prohibit or severely restrict development and homebuilding activity in environmentally sensitive regions or areas. our financial services operations are also subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations. these include eligibility requirements for participation in federal loan programs and compliance with consumer lending and similar requirements such as disclosure requirements, prohibitions against discrimination and real estate settlement procedures. they may also subject our operations to examination by applicable agencies. these may limit our ability to provide mortgage financing or title services to potential purchasers of our homes. homebuilding is subject to warranty and liability claims in the ordinary course of business that can be significant. as a homebuilder, we are subject to home warranty and construction defect claims arising in the ordinary course of business. we record warranty and other reserves for the homes we sell based on historical experience in our markets and our judgment of the qualitative risks associated with the types of homes built. we have, and require the majority of our subcontractors to have, general liability, property, errors and omissions, workers compensations and other business insurance. these insurance policies protect us against a portion of our risk of loss from claims, subject to certain self-insured retentions, deductibles, and other coverage limits. through our captive insurance subsidiaries, we reserve for costs to cover our self-insured and deductible amounts under these policies and for any costs of claims and lawsuits, based on an analysis of our historical claims, which includes an estimate of claims incurred but not yet reported. because of the uncertainties inherent to these matters, we cannot provide assurance that our insurance coverage, our subcontractor arrangements and our reserves will be adequate to address all our warranty and construction defect claims in the future. contractual indemnities can be difficult to enforce, we may be responsible for applicable self-insured retentions and some types of claims may not be covered by insurance or may exceed applicable coverage limits. additionally, the coverage offered by and the availability of general liability insurance for construction defects are currently limited and costly. we have responded to the recent increases in insurance costs and coverage limitations by increasing our self-insured retentions and claim reserves. there can be no assurance that coverage will not be further restricted and become more costly. natural disasters and severe weather conditions could delay deliveries, increase costs and decrease demand for new homes in affected areas. our homebuilding operations are located in many areas that are subject to natural disasters and severe weather. the occurrence of natural disasters or severe weather conditions can delay new home deliveries, increase costs by damaging inventories, reduce the availability of materials and negatively impact the demand for new homes in affected areas. furthermore, if our insurance does not fully cover business interruptions or losses resulting from these events, our earnings, liquidity or capital resources could be adversely affected. inflation may result in increased costs that we may not be able to recoup if demand declines. inflation can have a long-term impact on us because increasing costs of land, materials and labor may require us to increase the sales prices of homes in order to maintain satisfactory margins. however, inflation is often accompanied by higher interest rates, which have a negative impact on housing demand, in which case we may not be able to raise home prices sufficiently to keep up with the rate of inflation and our margins could decrease. future terrorist attacks against the united states or increased domestic and international instability could have an adverse effect on our operations. a future terrorist attack against the united states could cause a sharp decrease in the number of new contracts signed for homes and an increase in the cancellation of existing contracts. accordingly, adverse developments in the war on terrorism, future terrorist attacks against the united states, or increased domestic and international instability could adversely affect our business. 11 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are subject to interest rate risk on our rate-sensitive financing to the extent long-term rates decline. the following tables set forth, as of december 31, 2005 and 2004, our rate-sensitive financing obligations, principal cash flows by scheduled maturity, weighted-average interest rates and estimated fair market value ($000 omitted). as of december 31, 2005 for the years ended december 31, there- fair 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 after total value rate sensitive liabilities: fixed interest rate debt: senior notes and subordinated notes $ $ $ $ 400,000 $ $ 2,998,563 $ 3,398,563 $ 3,421,959 average interest rate 4.88% 6.58% 6.38% limited recourse collateralized financing $ 18,051 $ 5,700 $ 3,949 $ 933 $ $ $ 28,633 $ 28,633 average interest rate .89% 1.80% 1.27% 8.25% 1.36% as of december 31, 2004 for the years ended december 31, there- fair 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 after total value rate sensitive liabilities: fixed interest rate debt: senior notes and subordinated notes $ 125,000 $ $ $ $ 400,000 $ 2,348,563 $ 2,873,563 $ 3,124,413 average interest rate 7.3% 4.88% 6.86% 6.6% limited recourse collateralized financing $ 60,392 $ 13,309 $ 4,699 $ 2,350 $ 1,113 $ $ 81,863 $ 81,863 average interest rate 1.48% 1.97% 4.17% 5.25% 5.25% 1.87% pulte mortgage, operating as a mortgage banker, is also subject to interest rate risk. interest rate risk begins when we commit to lend money to a customer at agreed-upon terms (i.e., commit to lend at a certain interest rate for a certain period of time). the interest rate risk continues through the loan closing and until the loan is sold to an investor. during 2005 and 2004, this period of interest rate exposure averaged approximately 60 days. in periods of rising interest rates, the length of exposure will generally increase due to customers locking in an interest rate sooner as opposed to letting the interest rate float. we minimize interest rate risk by (i) financing the loans via a variable rate borrowing agreement tied to libor and a1/p1 commercial paper rates and (ii) hedging our loan commitments and closed loans through derivative financial instruments. these financial instruments include cash forward placement contracts on mortgage-backed securities, whole loan investor commitments, options on treasury future contracts and options on cash forward placement contracts on mortgage-backed securities. we do not use any derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. hypothetical changes in the fair values of our financial instruments arising from immediate parallel shifts in long-term mortgage rates of plus 50, 100 and 150 basis points would not be material to our financial results. at december 31, 2005, our aggregate net investments exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk include our remaining non-operating investments in mexico, which approximated $6.2 million, and our mortgage banking joint venture investment in mexico, which approximated $15.1 million. 32 table of contents special notes concerning forward-looking statements as a cautionary note, except for the historical information contained herein, certain matters discussed in item 1a. risk factors , item 7., management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and item 7a., quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk , are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 (the reform act ). forward-looking statements give current expectations or forecasts of future events. words such as anticipate , expect , intend , plan , believe , seek , estimate , and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with discussions of future operating or financial performance signify forward-looking statements. from time to time, we also may provide oral or written forward-looking statements in other materials released to the public. such statements are made in good faith by us pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the reform act. we undertake no obligation to update publicly or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. such forward-looking statements involve known risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from our future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. such factors include, among other things, those set forth under item 1a. risk factors . 33 table of contentsrisk factors discussion of our business and operations included in this annual report on form 10-k should be read together with the risk factors set forth below. they describe various risks and uncertainties to which we are, or may become subject. these risks and uncertainties, together with other factors described elsewhere in this report, have the potential to affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, strategies or prospects in a material and adverse manner. downward changes in general economic, real estate construction or other business conditions could adversely affect our business or our financial results. the residential homebuilding industry is sensitive to changes in economic conditions and other factors, such as the level of employment, consumer confidence, consumer income, availability of financing and interest rate levels. adverse changes in any of these conditions generally, or in the markets where we operate, could decrease demand and pricing for new homes in these areas or result in customer cancellations of pending contracts, which could adversely affect the number of home deliveries we make or reduce the prices we can charge for homes, either of which could result in a decrease in our revenues and earnings. the homebuilding industry has not experienced an economic down cycle in a number of years, which may have resulted in an overvaluation of land and new homes. although the homebuilding business historically has been cyclical, it has not undergone an economic down cycle in a number of years. further, in recent years, land and home prices rose significantly in many of our markets. this has led some people to assert that the prices of land, new homes and the stock prices of homebuilding companies may be inflated and may decline if the demand for land and new homes weakens. a decline in the prices for land and new homes could adversely affect both our revenues and margins. a decline in our stock price could make raising capital through stock issuances more difficult and expensive. future increases in interest rates, reductions in mortgage availability or increases in the effective costs of owning a home could prevent potential customers from buying our homes and adversely affect our business or our financial results. most of our customers finance their home purchases through our mortgage bank. interest rates have been at historical lows for several years. many homebuyers have also chosen adjustable rate, interest only or mortgages that involve initial lower monthly payments. as a result, new homes have been more affordable. increases in interest rates or decreases in availability of mortgage financing, however, could reduce the market for new homes. potential homebuyers may be less willing or able to pay the increased monthly costs or to obtain mortgage financing that exposes them to interest rate changes. lenders may increase the qualifications needed for mortgages or adjust their terms to address any increased credit risk. even if potential customers do not need financing, changes in interest rates and mortgage availability could make it harder for them to sell their current homes to potential buyers who need financing. these factors could adversely affect the sales or pricing of our homes and could also reduce the volume or margins in our financial services business. our financial services business could be impacted to the extent we are unable to match interest rates and amounts on loans we have committed to originate through the various hedging strategies we employ. in addition, we believe that the availability of fha and va mortgage financing is an important factor in marketing some of our homes. we also believe that the liquidity provided by fannie mae and freddie mac to the mortgage industry is important to the housing market. however, the federal government has recently sought to reduce the size of the home-loan portfolios and operations of these two government-sponsored enterprises. any limitations or restrictions on the availability of the financing or on the liquidity by them could adversely affect interest rates, mortgage financing and our sales of new homes and mortgage loans. our future growth may require additional capital, which may not be available. our operations require significant amounts of cash. we may be required to seek additional capital, whether from sales of equity or debt or additional bank borrowings, for the future growth and development of our business. we can give no assurance as to the availability of such additional capital or, if available, whether it would be on terms acceptable to us. moreover, the indentures for most of our outstanding public debt and the covenants of our revolving credit facility contain provisions that may restrict the debt we may incur in the future. if we are not successful in obtaining sufficient capital, it could reduce our sales and may adversely affect our future growth and financial results. 11 table of contents competition for homebuyers could reduce our deliveries or decrease our profitability. the housing industry in the united states is highly competitive. we compete primarily on the basis of price, reputation, design, location and quality of our homes. we compete in each of our markets with numerous national, regional and local homebuilders. this competition with other homebuilders could reduce the number of homes we deliver, or cause us to accept reduced margins in order to maintain sales volume. we also compete with resales of existing used or foreclosed homes, housing speculators and available rental housing. increased competitive conditions in the residential resale or rental market in the regions where we operate could decrease demand for new homes and increase cancellations of sales contracts in backlog. our success depends on our ability to acquire land suitable for residential homebuilding at reasonable prices, in accordance with our land investment criteria. the homebuilding industry is highly competitive for suitable land. the availability of finished and partially finished developed lots and undeveloped land for purchase that meet our internal criteria depends on a number of factors outside our control, including land availability in general, competition with other homebuilders and land buyers for desirable property, inflation in land prices, and zoning, allowable housing density and other regulatory requirements. should suitable lots or land become less available, the number of homes we may be able to build and sell could be reduced, and the cost of land could be increased, perhaps substantially, which could adversely impact our results of operations. our long-term ability to build homes depends on our acquiring land suitable for residential building at reasonable prices in locations where we want to build. over the past few years, we have experienced an increase in competition for suitable land as a result of land constraints in many of our markets. as competition for suitable land increases, and as available land is developed, the cost of acquiring suitable remaining land could rise, and the availability of suitable land at acceptable prices may decline. any land shortages or any decrease in the supply of suitable land at reasonable prices could limit our ability to develop new communities or result in increased land costs. we may not be able to pass through to our customers any increased land costs, which could adversely impact our revenues, earnings, and margins. supply shortages and other risks related to the demand for skilled labor and building materials could increase costs and delay deliveries. the homebuilding industry is highly competitive for skilled labor and materials. increased costs or shortages of skilled labor and/or lumber, framing, concrete, steel and other building materials could cause increases in construction costs and construction delays. we generally are unable to pass on increases in construction costs to those customers who have already entered into sale contracts, as those sales contracts generally fix the price of the home at the time the contract is signed, which may be well in advance of the construction of the home. sustained increases in construction costs may, over time, erode our margins, and pricing competition for materials and labor may restrict our ability to pass on any additional costs, thereby decreasing our margins. government regulations could increase the cost and limit the availability of our development and homebuilding projects or affect our related financial services operations and adversely affect our business or financial results. our operations are subject to building, environmental and other regulations of various federal, state, and local governing authorities. for our homes to qualify for fha or va mortgages, we must satisfy valuation standards and site, material and construction requirements of those agencies. our compliance with federal, state, and local laws relating to protection of the environment has had, to date, no material effect upon capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. more stringent requirements could be imposed in the future on homebuilders and developers, thereby increasing the cost of compliance. new housing developments may be subject to various assessments for schools, parks, streets and other public improvements. these can cause an increase in the effective prices for our homes. in addition, increases in property tax rates by local governmental authorities, as recently experienced in response to reduced federal and state funding, can adversely affect the ability of potential customers to obtain financing or their desire to purchase new homes. 12 table of contents government regulations could increase the cost and limit the availability of our development and homebuilding projects or affect our related financial services operations and adversely affect our business or financial results. (continued) we also are subject to a variety of local, state and federal laws and regulations concerning protection of health, safety and the environment. the impact of environmental laws varies depending upon the prior uses of the building site or adjoining properties and may be greater in areas with less supply where undeveloped land or desirable alternatives are less available. these matters may result in delays, may cause us to incur substantial compliance, remediation and other costs, and can prohibit or severely restrict development and homebuilding activity in environmentally sensitive regions or areas. our financial services operations are also subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations. these include eligibility requirements for participation in federal loan programs and compliance with consumer lending and similar requirements such as disclosure requirements, prohibitions against discrimination and real estate settlement procedures. they may also subject our operations to examination by applicable agencies. these may limit our ability to provide mortgage financing or title services to potential purchasers of our homes. homebuilding is subject to warranty and liability claims in the ordinary course of business that can be significant. as a homebuilder, we are subject to home warranty and construction defect claims arising in the ordinary course of business. we record warranty and other reserves for the homes we sell based on historical experience in our markets and our judgment of the qualitative risks associated with the types of homes built. we have, and require the majority of our subcontractors to have, general liability, property, errors and omissions, workers compensations and other business insurance. these insurance policies protect us against a portion of our risk of loss from claims, subject to certain self-insured retentions, deductibles, and other coverage limits. through our captive insurance subsidiaries, we reserve for costs to cover our self-insured and deductible amounts under these policies and for any costs of claims and lawsuits, based on an analysis of our historical claims, which includes an estimate of claims incurred but not yet reported. because of the uncertainties inherent to these matters, we cannot provide assurance that our insurance coverage, our subcontractor arrangements and our reserves will be adequate to address all our warranty and construction defect claims in the future. contractual indemnities can be difficult to enforce, we may be responsible for applicable self-insured retentions and some types of claims may not be covered by insurance or may exceed applicable coverage limits. additionally, the coverage offered by and the availability of general liability insurance for construction defects are currently limited and costly. we have responded to the recent increases in insurance costs and coverage limitations by increasing our self-insured retentions and claim reserves. there can be no assurance that coverage will not be further restricted and become more costly. natural disasters and severe weather conditions could delay deliveries, increase costs and decrease demand for new homes in affected areas. our homebuilding operations are located in many areas that are subject to natural disasters and severe weather. the occurrence of natural disasters or severe weather conditions can delay new home deliveries, increase costs by damaging inventories, reduce the availability of materials and negatively impact the demand for new homes in affected areas. furthermore, if our insurance does not fully cover business interruptions or losses resulting from these events, our earnings, liquidity or capital resources could be adversely affected. inflation may result in increased costs that we may not be able to recoup if demand declines. inflation can have a long-term impact on us because increasing costs of land, materials and labor may require us to increase the sales prices of homes in order to maintain satisfactory margins. however, inflation is often accompanied by higher interest rates, which have a negative impact on housing demand, in which case we may not be able to raise home prices sufficiently to keep up with the rate of inflation and our margins could decrease. future terrorist attacks against the united states or increased domestic and international instability could have an adverse effect on our operations. a future terrorist attack against the united states could cause a sharp decrease in the number of new contracts signed for homes and an increase in the cancellation of existing contracts. accordingly, adverse developments in the war on terrorism, future terrorist attacks against the united states, or increased domestic and international instability could adversely affect our business. 13 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are subject to interest rate risk on our rate-sensitive financing to the extent long-term rates decline. the following tables set forth, as of december 31, 2005 and 2004, our rate-sensitive financing obligations, principal cash flows by scheduled maturity, weighted-average interest rates and estimated fair market value ($000 omitted). as of december 31, 2005 for the years ended december 31, there- fair 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 after total value rate sensitive liabilities: fixed interest rate debt: senior notes and subordinated notes $ $ $ $ 400,000 $ $ 2,998,563 $ 3,398,563 $ 3,421,959 average interest rate 4.88 % 6.58 % 6.38 % limited recourse collateralized financing $ 18,051 $ 5,700 $ 3,949 $ 933 $ $ $ 28,633 $ 28,633 average interest rate .89 % 1.80 % 1.27 % 8.25 % 1.36 % as of december 31, 2004 for the years ended december 31, there- fair 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 after total value rate sensitive liabilities: fixed interest rate debt: senior notes and subordinated notes $ 125,000 $ $ $ $ 400,000 $ 2,348,563 $ 2,873,563 $ 3,124,413 average interest rate 7.3 % 4.88 % 6.86 % 6.6 % limited recourse collateralized financing $ 60,392 $ 13,309 $ 4,699 $ 2,350 $ 1,113 $ $ 81,863 $ 81,863 average interest rate 1.48 % 1.97 % 4.17 % 5.25 % 5.25 % 1.87 % pulte mortgage, operating as a mortgage banker, is also subject to interest rate risk. interest rate risk begins when we commit to lend money to a customer at agreed-upon terms (i.e., commit to lend at a certain interest rate for a certain period of time). the interest rate risk continues through the loan closing and until the loan is sold to an investor. during 2005 and 2004, this period of interest rate exposure averaged approximately 60 days. in periods of rising interest rates, the length of exposure will generally increase due to customers locking in an interest rate sooner as opposed to letting the interest rate float. we minimize interest rate risk by (i) financing the loans via a variable rate borrowing agreement tied to libor and a1/p1 commercial paper rates and (ii) hedging our loan commitments and closed loans through derivative financial instruments. these financial instruments include cash forward placement contracts on mortgage-backed securities, whole loan investor commitments, options on treasury future contracts and options on cash forward placement contracts on mortgage-backed securities. we do not use any derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. hypothetical changes in the fair values of our financial instruments arising from immediate parallel shifts in long-term mortgage rates of plus 50, 100 and 150 basis points would not be material to our financial results. at december 31, 2005, our aggregate net investments exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk include our remaining non-operating investments in mexico, which approximated $6.2 million, and our mortgage banking joint venture investment in mexico, which approximated $15.1 million. 40 table of contents special notes concerning forward-looking statements as a cautionary note, except for the historical information contained herein, certain matters discussed in item 1a., risk factors , item 7., management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and item 7a., quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk , are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 (the reform act ). forward-looking statements give current expectations or forecasts of future events. words such as anticipate , expect , intend , plan , believe , seek , estimate , and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with discussions of future operating or financial performance signify forward-looking statements. from time to time, we also may provide oral or written forward-looking statements in other materials released to the public. such statements are made in good faith by us pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the reform act. we undertake no obligation to update publicly or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. such forward-looking statements involve known risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from our future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. such factors include, among other things, those set forth under item 1a. risk factors . 41 table of contentsrisk factors discussion of our business and operations included in this annual report on form 10-k should be read together with the risk factors set forth below. they describe various risks and uncertainties to which we are, or may become subject. these risks and uncertainties, together with other factors described elsewhere in this report, have the potential to affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, strategies or prospects in a material and adverse manner. downward changes in general economic, real estate construction or other business conditions could adversely affect our business or our financial results. the residential homebuilding industry is sensitive to changes in economic conditions and other factors, such as the level of employment, consumer confidence, consumer income, availability of financing and interest rate levels. adverse changes in any of these conditions generally, or in the markets where we operate, could decrease demand and pricing for new homes in these areas or result in customer cancellations of pending contracts, which could adversely affect the number of home deliveries we make or reduce the prices we can charge for homes, either of which could result in a decrease in our revenues and earnings and would adversely affect our financial condition. the homebuilding industry is currently experiencing an economic down cycle, which has resulted in the overvaluation of land and new homes in certain markets. in recent years, land and home prices rose significantly in many of our markets. however, during the year ended december 31, 2006, the homebuilding industry was impacted by lack of consumer confidence, decreased housing affordability and large supplies of resale and new home inventories which resulted in an industry-wide softening of demand for new homes. as a result of these factors, we are experiencing slower sales and higher cancellations which have impacted most of our markets and therefore, we are making greater use of sales incentives. we cannot predict the duration or the severity of the current market conditions, nor provide any assurances that the adjustments we have made in our operating strategy to address these conditions will be successful. if the market value of our land and homes drops significantly, our profits could decrease. the market value of land, building lots and housing inventories can fluctuate significantly as a result of changing market conditions and the measures we employ to manage inventory risk may not be adequate to insulate our operations from a severe drop in inventory values. we acquire land for expansion into new markets and for replacement of land inventory and expansion within our current markets. if housing demand decreases below what we anticipated when we acquired our inventory, we may not be able to make profits similar to what we have made in the past, we may experience less than anticipated profits and/or we may not be able to recover our costs when we sell and build homes. when market conditions are such that land values are not appreciating, option arrangements previously entered into may become less desirable, at which time we may elect to forego deposits and pre-acquisition costs and terminate the agreement. in the face of adverse market conditions, we may have substantial inventory carrying costs, we may have to write-down our inventory to its fair value, and/or we may have to sell land or homes at a loss. as a result of the changing market conditions in the real estate industry which occurred during the year ended december 31, 2006, our land inventories and communities under development demonstrated impairment indicators which were evaluated for potential impairment. consequently, we recorded land and community valuation adjustments of $203.8 million to reduce the carrying value of the impaired projects to their estimated fair values and we also recorded $95.4 million of land and community valuation adjustments related to our unconsolidated joint ventures. in addition, we recorded $54.6 million of net realizable value adjustments to land held for sale and $151.2 million for the write-off of deposits and pre-acquisition costs for land option contracts we no longer plan to pursue. it is possible that the estimated cash flows from these projects may change and could result in a future need to record additional valuation or net realizable adjustments. additionally, if conditions in the homebuilding industry worsen in the future, we may be required to evaluate additional projects for potential impairment which may result in additional valuation and net realizable value adjustments which could be significant. 9 table of contents our success depends on our ability to acquire land suitable for residential homebuilding at reasonable prices, in accordance with our land investment criteria. the homebuilding industry is highly competitive for suitable land. the availability of finished and partially finished developed lots and undeveloped land for purchase that meet our internal criteria depends on a number of factors outside our control, including land availability in general, competition with other homebuilders and land buyers for desirable property, inflation in land prices, and zoning, allowable housing density and other regulatory requirements. should suitable lots or land become less available, the number of homes we may be able to build and sell could be reduced, and the cost of land could be increased, perhaps substantially, which could adversely impact our results of operations. our long-term ability to build homes depends on our acquiring land suitable for residential building at reasonable prices in locations where we want to build. over the past few years, we have experienced an increase in competition for suitable land as a result of land constraints in many of our markets. as competition for suitable land increases, and as available land is developed, the cost of acquiring suitable remaining land could rise, and the availability of suitable land at acceptable prices may decline. any land shortages or any decrease in the supply of suitable land at reasonable prices could limit our ability to develop new communities or result in increased land costs. we may not be able to pass through to our customers any increased land costs, which could adversely impact our revenues, earnings, and margins. future increases in interest rates, reductions in mortgage availability or increases in the effective costs of owning a home could prevent potential customers from buying our homes and adversely affect our business or our financial results. most of our customers finance their home purchases through our mortgage bank. interest rates have been at historical lows for several years. many homebuyers have also chosen adjustable rate, interest only or mortgages that involve initial lower monthly payments. as a result, new homes have been more affordable. increases in interest rates or decreases in availability of mortgage financing, however, could reduce the market for new homes. potential homebuyers may be less willing or able to pay the increased monthly costs or to obtain mortgage financing that exposes them to interest rate changes. lenders may increase the qualifications needed for mortgages or adjust their terms to address any increased credit risk. even if potential customers do not need financing, changes in interest rates and mortgage availability could make it harder for them to sell their current homes to potential buyers who need financing. these factors could adversely affect the sales or pricing of our homes and could also reduce the volume or margins in our financial services business. our financial services business could be impacted to the extent we are unable to match interest rates and amounts on loans we have committed to originate through the various hedging strategies we employ. in addition, we believe that the availability of fha and va mortgage financing is an important factor in marketing some of our homes. we also believe that the liquidity provided by fannie mae and freddie mac to the mortgage industry is important to the housing market. however, the federal government has recently sought to reduce the size of the home-loan portfolios and operations of these two government-sponsored enterprises. any limitations or restrictions on the availability of the financing or on the liquidity by them could adversely affect interest rates, mortgage financing and our sales of new homes and mortgage loans. our future growth may require additional capital, which may not be available. our operations require significant amounts of cash. we may be required to seek additional capital, whether from sales of equity or debt or additional bank borrowings, for the future growth and development of our business. we can give no assurance as to the availability of such additional capital or, if available, whether it would be on terms acceptable to us. moreover, the indentures for most of our outstanding public debt and the covenants of our revolving credit facility contain provisions that may restrict the debt we may incur in the future. if we are not successful in obtaining sufficient capital, it could reduce our sales and may adversely affect our future growth and financial results. competition for homebuyers could reduce our deliveries or decrease our profitability. the housing industry in the united states is highly competitive. we compete primarily on the basis of price, reputation, design, location and quality of our homes. we compete in each of our markets with numerous national, regional and local homebuilders. this competition with other homebuilders could reduce the number of homes we deliver, or cause us to accept reduced margins in order to maintain sales volume. we also compete with resales of existing used or foreclosed homes, housing speculators and available rental housing. increased competitive conditions in the residential resale or rental market in the regions where we operate could decrease demand for new homes and increase cancellations of sales contracts in backlog. 10 table of contents supply shortages and other risks related to the demand for skilled labor and building materials could increase costs and delay deliveries. the homebuilding industry is highly competitive for skilled labor and materials. increased costs or shortages of skilled labor and/or lumber, framing, concrete, steel and other building materials could cause increases in construction costs and construction delays. the current national debate related to immigration reform could impact the related laws and regulations in the markets in which we operate, and result in shortages of skilled labor and higher labor and compliance costs, potentially affecting our ability to complete construction and land development. we generally are unable to pass on increases in construction costs to those customers who have already entered into sale contracts, as those sales contracts generally fix the price of the home at the time the contract is signed, which may be well in advance of the construction of the home. sustained increases in construction costs may, over time, erode our margins, and pricing competition for materials and labor may restrict our ability to pass on any additional costs, thereby decreasing our margins. government regulations could increase the cost and limit the availability of our development and homebuilding projects or affect our related financial services operations and adversely affect our business or financial results. our operations are subject to building, environmental and other regulations of various federal, state, and local governing authorities. for our homes to qualify for fha or va mortgages, we must satisfy valuation standards and site, material and construction requirements of those agencies. our compliance with federal, state, and local laws relating to protection of the environment has had, to date, no material effect upon capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. more stringent requirements could be imposed in the future on homebuilders and developers, thereby increasing the cost of compliance. new housing developments may be subject to various assessments for schools, parks, streets and other public improvements. these can cause an increase in the effective prices for our homes. in addition, increases in property tax rates by local governmental authorities, as recently experienced in response to reduced federal and state funding, can adversely affect the ability of potential customers to obtain financing or their desire to purchase new homes. we also are subject to a variety of local, state and federal laws and regulations concerning protection of health, safety and the environment. the impact of environmental laws varies depending upon the prior uses of the building site or adjoining properties and may be greater in areas with less supply where undeveloped land or desirable alternatives are less available. these matters may result in delays, may cause us to incur substantial compliance, remediation and other costs, and can prohibit or severely restrict development and homebuilding activity in environmentally sensitive regions or areas. our financial services operations are also subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations. these include eligibility requirements for participation in federal loan programs and compliance with consumer lending and similar requirements such as disclosure requirements, prohibitions against discrimination and real estate settlement procedures. they may also subject our operations to examination by applicable agencies. these may limit our ability to provide mortgage financing or title services to potential purchasers of our homes. homebuilding is subject to warranty and liability claims in the ordinary course of business that can be significant. as a homebuilder, we are subject to home warranty and construction defect claims arising in the ordinary course of business. we record warranty and other reserves for the homes we sell based on historical experience in our markets and our judgment of the qualitative risks associated with the types of homes built. we have, and require the majority of our subcontractors to have, general liability, property, errors and omissions, workers compensations and other business insurance. these insurance policies protect us against a portion of our risk of loss from claims, subject to certain self-insured retentions, deductibles, and other coverage limits. through our captive insurance subsidiaries, we reserve for costs to cover our self-insured and deductible amounts under these policies and for any costs of claims and lawsuits, based on an analysis of our historical claims, which includes an estimate of claims incurred but not yet reported. because of the uncertainties inherent to these matters, we cannot provide assurance that our insurance coverage, our subcontractor arrangements and our reserves will be adequate to address all our warranty and construction defect claims in the future. contractual indemnities can be difficult to enforce, we may be responsible for applicable self-insured retentions and some types of claims may not be covered by insurance or may exceed applicable coverage limits. additionally, the coverage offered by and the availability of general liability insurance for construction defects are currently limited and costly. we have responded to the recent increases in insurance costs and coverage limitations by increasing our self-insured retentions and claim reserves. there can be no assurance that coverage will not be further restricted and become more costly. 11 table of contents natural disasters and severe weather conditions could delay deliveries, increase costs and decrease demand for new homes in affected areas. our homebuilding operations are located in many areas that are subject to natural disasters and severe weather. the occurrence of natural disasters or severe weather conditions can delay new home deliveries, increase costs by damaging inventories, reduce the availability of materials and negatively impact the demand for new homes in affected areas. furthermore, if our insurance does not fully cover business interruptions or losses resulting from these events, our earnings, liquidity or capital resources could be adversely affected. inflation may result in increased costs that we may not be able to recoup if demand declines. inflation can have a long-term impact on us because increasing costs of land, materials and labor may require us to increase the sales prices of homes in order to maintain satisfactory margins. however, inflation is often accompanied by higher interest rates, which have a negative impact on housing demand, in which case we may not be able to raise home prices sufficiently to keep up with the rate of inflation and our margins could decrease. future terrorist attacks against the united states or increased domestic and international instability could have an adverse effect on our operations. a future terrorist attack against the united states could cause a sharp decrease in the number of new contracts signed for homes and an increase in the cancellation of existing contracts. accordingly, adverse developments in the war on terrorism, future terrorist attacks against the united states, or increased domestic and international instability could adversely affect our business. 12 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are subject to interest rate risk on our rate-sensitive financing to the extent long-term rates decline. the following tables set forth, as of december 31, 2006 and 2005, our rate-sensitive financing obligations, principal cash flows by scheduled maturity, weighted-average interest rates and estimated fair market value ($000 omitted). as of december 31, 2006 for the years ended december 31, there- fair 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 after total value rate sensitive liabilities: fixed interest rate debt: senior notes $ $ $ 400,000 $ $ 698,563 $ 2,450,000 $ 3,548,563 $ 3,584,523 average interest rate 4.88 % 7.95 % 6.24 % 6.42 % non-recourse collateralized financing $ 19,755 $ 3,484 $ 3,650 $ $ $ $ 26,889 $ 26,889 average interest rate .31 % 1.25 % 2.37 % .71 % as of december 31, 2005 for the years ended december 31, there- fair 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 after total value rate sensitive liabilities: fixed interest rate debt: senior notes $ $ $ $ 400,000 $ $ 2,998,563 $ 3,398,563 $ 3,421,959 average interest rate 4.88 % 6.58 % 6.38 % non-recourse collateralized financing $ 18,051 $ 5,700 $ 3,949 $ 933 $ $ $ 28,633 $ 28,633 average interest rate .89 % 1.80 % 1.27 % 8.25 % 1.36 % pulte mortgage, operating as a mortgage banker, is also subject to interest rate risk. interest rate risk begins when we commit to lend money to a customer at agreed-upon terms (i.e., commit to lend at a certain interest rate for a certain period of time). the interest rate risk continues through the loan closing and until the loan is sold to an investor. during 2006 and 2005, this period of interest rate exposure averaged approximately 60 days. in periods of rising interest rates, the length of exposure will generally increase due to customers locking in an interest rate sooner as opposed to letting the interest rate float. we minimize interest rate risk by (i) financing the loans via a variable rate borrowing agreement tied to libor and a1/p1 commercial paper rates and (ii) hedging our loan commitments and closed loans through derivative financial instruments. these financial instruments include cash forward placement contracts on mortgage-backed securities, whole loan investor commitments, options on treasury future contracts and options on cash forward placement contracts on mortgage-backed securities. we do not use any derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. hypothetical changes in the fair values of our financial instruments arising from immediate parallel shifts in long-term mortgage rates of plus 50, 100 and 150 basis points would not be material to our financial results. at december 31, 2006, our aggregate net investment exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk includes our remaining non-operating investments in mexico, which approximated $3.5 million. 41 table of contents special notes concerning forward-looking statements as a cautionary note, except for the historical information contained herein, certain matters discussed in item 1a., risk factors , item 7., management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and item 7a., quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk , are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 (the reform act ). forward-looking statements give current expectations or forecasts of future events. words such as anticipate , expect , intend , plan , believe , seek , estimate , and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with discussions of future operating or financial performance signify forward-looking statements. from time to time, we also may provide oral or written forward-looking statements in other materials released to the public. such statements are made in good faith by us pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the reform act. we undertake no obligation to update publicly or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. such forward-looking statements involve known risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from our future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. such factors include, among other things, those set forth under item 1a. risk factors . 42 table of contentsrisk factors discussion of our business and operations included in this annual report on form 10-k should be read together with the risk factors set forth below. they describe various risks and uncertainties to which we are, or may become subject. these risks and uncertainties, together with other factors described elsewhere in this report, have the potential to affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, strategies, or prospects in a material and adverse manner. downward changes in general economic, real estate construction, or other business conditions could adversely affect our business or our financial results. the residential homebuilding industry is sensitive to changes in economic conditions and other factors, such as the level of employment, consumer confidence, consumer income, availability of financing, and interest rate levels. adverse changes in any of these conditions generally, or in the markets where we operate, could decrease demand and pricing for new homes in these areas or result in customer cancellations of pending contracts, which could adversely affect the number of home deliveries we make or reduce the prices we can charge for homes, either of which could result in a decrease in our revenues and earnings and would adversely affect our financial condition. the homebuilding industry is currently experiencing an economic down cycle, which has had an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. prior to 2006, land and home prices rose significantly in many of our markets. however, during 2007 and 2006, the homebuilding industry was impacted by lack of consumer confidence, decreased housing affordability, and large supplies of resale and new home inventories which resulted in an industry-wide softening of demand for new homes. as a result of these factors, we have experienced significant decreases in our revenues and profitability. we have also incurred substantial impairments of our land and certain other assets. we cannot predict the duration or the severity of the current market conditions, nor provide any assurances that the adjustments we have made in our operating strategy to address these conditions will be successful. if the market value of our land and homes drops significantly, our profits could decrease. the market value of land, building lots and housing inventories can fluctuate significantly as a result of changing market conditions and the measures we employ to manage inventory risk may not be adequate to insulate our operations from a severe drop in inventory values. we acquire land for expansion into new markets and for replacement of land inventory and expansion within our current markets. if housing demand decreases below what we anticipated when we acquired our inventory, we may not be able to make profits similar to what we have made in the past, we may experience less than anticipated profits, and/or we may not be able to recover our costs when we sell and build homes. when market conditions are such that land values are not appreciating, option arrangements previously entered into may become less desirable, at which time we may elect to forego deposits and pre-acquisition costs and terminate the agreement. in the face of adverse market conditions, we may have substantial inventory carrying costs, we may have to write-down our inventory to its fair value, and/or we may have to sell land or homes at a loss. as a result of the changing market conditions in the homebuilding industry which occurred during 2007 and 2006, we incurred significant land-related charges in 2007 and 2006 resulting from the write-off of deposit and other related costs related to land transactions we no longer plan to pursue, net realizable valuation adjustments related to land positions sold or held for sale, impairments on land assets related to communities under development or to be developed in the future, and impairments of our investments in unconsolidated joint ventures. it is possible that the estimated cash flows from these projects may change and could result in a future need to record additional valuation or net realizable adjustments. additionally, if conditions in the homebuilding industry worsen in the future or if our strategy related to certain communities changes, we may be required to evaluate our assets, including additional projects, for additional impairments or write-downs, which could result in additional charges that might be significant. 9 table of contents our success depends on our ability to acquire land suitable for residential homebuilding at reasonable prices, in accordance with our land investment criteria. the homebuilding industry is highly competitive for suitable land. the availability of finished and partially finished developed lots and undeveloped land for purchase that meet our internal criteria depends on a number of factors outside our control, including land availability in general, competition with other homebuilders and land buyers for desirable property, inflation in land prices, zoning, allowable housing density, and other regulatory requirements. should suitable lots or land become less available, the number of homes we may be able to build and sell could be reduced, and the cost of land could be increased, perhaps substantially, which could adversely impact our results of operations. our long-term ability to build homes depends on our acquiring land suitable for residential building at reasonable prices in locations where we want to build. over the past few years, we have experienced an increase in competition for suitable land as a result of land constraints in many of our markets. as competition for suitable land increases, and as available land is developed, the cost of acquiring suitable remaining land could rise, and the availability of suitable land at acceptable prices may decline. any land shortages or any decrease in the supply of suitable land at reasonable prices could limit our ability to develop new communities or result in increased land costs. we may not be able to pass through to our customers any increased land costs, which could adversely impact our revenues, earnings, and margins. future increases in interest rates, reductions in mortgage availability, or increases in the effective costs of owning a home could prevent potential customers from buying our homes and adversely affect our business and financial results. most of our customers finance their home purchases through our mortgage bank. interest rates have been at historical lows for several years. many homebuyers have also chosen adjustable rate, interest-only, or other types of mortgages that involve lower initial monthly payments. as a result, new homes have been more affordable. increases in interest rates or decreases in availability of mortgage financing, however, could reduce the market for new homes. potential homebuyers may be less willing or able to pay the increased monthly costs or to obtain mortgage financing that exposes them to interest rate changes. lenders may increase the qualifications needed for mortgages or adjust their terms to address any increased credit risk. even if potential customers do not need financing, changes in interest rates and mortgage availability could make it harder for them to sell their current homes to potential buyers who need financing. these factors could adversely affect the sales or pricing of our homes and could also reduce the volume or margins in our financial services business. beginning in early 2007, the availability of certain mortgage financing products has become more constrained as the mortgage industry began to more closely scrutinize sub-prime, alt-a, and other non-conforming mortgage products. while we do not retain any material risks associated with the loans we originate, our financial services business could be impacted to the extent we are unable to match interest rates and amounts on loans we have committed to originate through the various hedging strategies we employ. additionally, these developments have had, and may continue to have, a material adverse effect on the overall demand for new housing and thereby on the results of operations for our homebuilding business. in addition, we believe that the availability of fha and va mortgage financing is an important factor in marketing some of our homes. we also believe that the liquidity provided by fannie mae and freddie mac to the mortgage industry is important to the housing market. any limitations or restrictions on the availability of financing by these agencies could adversely affect interest rates, mortgage financing, and our sales of new homes and mortgage loans. our future growth may require additional capital, which may not be available. our operations require significant amounts of cash. we may be required to seek additional capital, whether from sales of equity or debt or additional bank borrowings, for the future growth and development of our business. we can give no assurance as to the availability of such additional capital or, if available, whether it would be on terms acceptable to us. moreover, the indentures for most of our outstanding public debt and the covenants of our revolving credit facility contain provisions that may restrict the debt we may incur in the future. if we are not successful in obtaining sufficient capital, it could reduce our sales and may adversely affect our future growth and financial results. 10 table of contents competition for homebuyers could reduce our deliveries or decrease our profitability. the housing industry in the united states is highly competitive. we compete primarily on the basis of price, reputation, design, location, and quality of our homes. we compete in each of our markets with numerous national, regional, and local homebuilders. this competition with other homebuilders could reduce the number of homes we deliver or cause us to accept reduced margins in order to maintain sales volume. we also compete with resales of existing or foreclosed homes, housing speculators, and available rental housing. increased competitive conditions in the residential resale or rental market in the regions where we operate could decrease demand for new homes and increase cancellations of sales contracts in backlog. supply shortages and other risks related to the demand for skilled labor and building materials could increase costs and delay deliveries. the homebuilding industry is highly competitive for skilled labor and materials. increased costs or shortages of skilled labor and/or lumber, framing, concrete, steel, and other building materials could cause increases in construction costs and construction delays. the current national debate related to immigration reform could impact the related laws and regulations in the markets in which we operate and result in shortages of skilled labor and higher labor and compliance costs, potentially affecting our ability to complete construction and land development. we generally are unable to pass on increases in construction costs to those customers who have already entered into sale contracts as those sales contracts generally fix the price of the home at the time the contract is signed, which may be well in advance of the construction of the home. sustained increases in construction costs may, over time, erode our margins, and pricing competition for materials and labor may restrict our ability to pass on any additional costs, thereby decreasing our margins. our income tax provision and tax reserves may be insufficient if a taxing authority is successful in asserting positions that are contrary to our interpretations and related reserves, if any. significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes and our reserves for federal, state, and local taxes. in the ordinary course of business, there may be matters for which the ultimate outcome is uncertain. although we believe our approach to determining the tax treatment is appropriate, no assurance can be given that the final tax authority review will not be materially different than that which is reflected in our income tax provision and related tax reserves. such differences could have a material adverse effect on our income tax provision in the period in which such determination is made and, consequently, on our net income for such period. from time to time, we are audited by various federal, state, and local authorities regarding tax matters. our current audits are in various stages of completion; however, no outcome for a particular audit can be determined with certainty prior to the conclusion of the audit, appeal and, in some cases, litigation process. as each audit is concluded, adjustments, if any, are appropriately recorded in our financial statements in the period determined. to provide for potential tax exposures, we maintain tax reserves based on reasonable estimates of potential audit results. however, if the reserves are insufficient upon completion of an audit, there could be an adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations. we may not realize our deferred income tax assets. the ultimate realization of our deferred income tax assets is dependent upon utilization of taxable income in prior carryback years, generating future taxable income, executing tax planning strategies, and reversals of existing taxable temporary differences. we have recorded a valuation allowance against certain deferred income tax assets. the valuation allowance may fluctuate as conditions change or if we are unable to implement certain tax planning strategies. an increase in the valuation allowance would reduce the carrying value of the deferred income tax assets and have an adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations. government regulations could increase the cost and limit the availability of our development and homebuilding projects or affect our related financial services operations and adversely affect our business or financial results. our operations are subject to building, environmental, and other regulations of various federal, state, and local governing authorities. for our homes to qualify for fha or va mortgages, we must satisfy valuation standards and site, material, and construction requirements of those agencies. our compliance with federal, state, and local laws relating to protection of the environment has had, to date, no material effect upon capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position. more stringent requirements could be imposed in the future on homebuilders and developers, thereby increasing the cost of compliance. 11 table of contents new housing developments may be subject to various assessments for schools, parks, streets, and other public improvements. these can cause an increase in the effective prices for our homes. in addition, increases in property tax rates by local governmental authorities, as recently experienced in response to reduced federal and state funding, can adversely affect the ability of potential customers to obtain financing or their desire to purchase new homes. we also are subject to a variety of local, state, and federal laws and regulations concerning protection of health, safety, and the environment. the impact of environmental laws varies depending upon the prior uses of the building site or adjoining properties and may be greater in areas with less supply where undeveloped land or desirable alternatives are less available. these matters may result in delays, may cause us to incur substantial compliance, remediation and other costs, and can prohibit or severely restrict development and homebuilding activity in environmentally sensitive regions or areas. our financial services operations are also subject to numerous federal, state, and local laws and regulations. these include eligibility requirements for participation in federal loan programs and compliance with consumer lending and similar requirements such as disclosure requirements, prohibitions against discrimination, and real estate settlement procedures. they may also subject our operations to examination by applicable agencies. these may limit our ability to provide mortgage financing or title services to potential purchasers of our homes. homebuilding is subject to warranty and liability claims in the ordinary course of business that can be significant. as a homebuilder, we are subject to home warranty and construction defect claims arising in the ordinary course of business. we record warranty and other reserves for the homes we sell based on historical experience in our markets and our judgment of the qualitative risks associated with the types of homes built. we have, and require the majority of our subcontractors to have, general liability, property, errors and omissions, workers compensations, and other business insurance. these insurance policies protect us against a portion of our risk of loss from claims, subject to certain self-insured retentions, deductibles, and other coverage limits. through our captive insurance subsidiaries, we reserve for costs to cover our self-insured and deductible amounts under these policies and for any costs of claims and lawsuits, based on an analysis of our historical claims, which includes an estimate of claims incurred but not yet reported. because of the uncertainties inherent to these matters, we cannot provide assurance that our insurance coverage, our subcontractor arrangements and our reserves will be adequate to address all our warranty and construction defect claims in the future. contractual indemnities can be difficult to enforce, we may be responsible for applicable self-insured retentions and some types of claims may not be covered by insurance or may exceed applicable coverage limits. additionally, the coverage offered by and the availability of general liability insurance for construction defects are currently limited and costly. we have responded to the recent increases in insurance costs and coverage limitations by increasing our self-insured retentions and claim reserves. there can be no assurance that coverage will not be further restricted and become more costly. natural disasters and severe weather conditions could delay deliveries, increase costs, and decrease demand for new homes in affected areas. our homebuilding operations are located in many areas that are subject to natural disasters and severe weather. the occurrence of natural disasters or severe weather conditions can delay new home deliveries, increase costs by damaging inventories, reduce the availability of materials, and negatively impact the demand for new homes in affected areas. furthermore, if our insurance does not fully cover business interruptions or losses resulting from these events, our earnings, liquidity, or capital resources could be adversely affected. inflation may result in increased costs that we may not be able to recoup if demand declines. inflation can have a long-term impact on us because increasing costs of land, materials, and labor may require us to increase the sales prices of homes in order to maintain satisfactory margins. however, inflation is often accompanied by higher interest rates, which have a negative impact on housing demand, in which case we may not be able to raise home prices sufficiently to keep up with the rate of inflation and our margins could decrease. future terrorist attacks against the united states or increased domestic and international instability could have an adverse effect on our operations. a future terrorist attack against the united states could cause a sharp decrease in the number of new contracts signed for homes and an increase in the cancellation of existing contracts. accordingly, adverse developments in the war on terrorism, future terrorist attacks against the united states, or increased domestic and international instability could adversely affect our business. 12 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are subject to interest rate risk on our rate-sensitive financing to the extent long-term rates decline. the following tables set forth, as of december 31, 2007 and 2006, our rate-sensitive financing obligations, principal cash flows by scheduled maturity, weighted-average interest rates, and estimated fair value ($000 omitted). as of december 31, 2007 for the years ended december 31, there- fair 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 after total value rate-sensitive liabilities: fixed interest rate debt senior notes $ $ 338,812 $ $ $ 698,563 $ 2,450,000 $ 3,487,375 $ 2,962,634 average interest rate 4.88 % 7.95 % 6.24 % 6.45 % non-recourse collateralized financing $ 4,120 $ 3,490 $ 890 $ 890 $ $ $ 9,390 $ 9,390 average interest rate 5.65 % 5.57 % 7.25 % 7.25 % 5.93 % as of december 31, 2006 for the years ended december 31, there- fair 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 after total value rate sensitive liabilities: fixed interest rate debt: senior notes $ $ $ 400,000 $ $ 698,563 $ 2,450,000 $ 3,548,563 $ 3,584,523 average interest rate 4.88 % 7.95 % 6.24 % 6.42 % non-recourse collateralized financing $ 19,755 $ 3,484 $ 3,650 $ $ $ $ 26,889 $ 26,889 average interest rate .31 % 1.25 % 2.37 % .71 % pulte mortgage, operating as a mortgage banker, is also subject to interest rate risk. interest rate risk begins when we commit to lend money to a customer at agreed-upon terms (i.e., commit to lend at a certain interest rate for a certain period of time). the interest rate risk continues through the loan closing and until the loan is sold to an investor. during 2007 and 2006, this period of interest rate exposure averaged approximately 60 days. in periods of rising interest rates, the length of exposure will generally increase due to customers locking in an interest rate sooner as opposed to letting the interest rate float. we minimize interest rate risk by (i) financing the loans via a variable rate borrowing agreement tied to libor and a1/p1 commercial paper rates and (ii) hedging our loan commitments and closed loans through derivative financial instruments. these financial instruments include cash forward placement contracts on mortgage-backed securities, whole loan investor commitments, options on treasury future contracts, and options on cash forward placement contracts on mortgage-backed securities. we do not use any derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. hypothetical changes in the fair values of our financial instruments arising from immediate parallel shifts in long-term mortgage rates of plus 50, 100, and 150 basis points would not be material to our financial results. at december 31, 2007, our aggregate net investment exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk includes our remaining non-operating investments in mexico, which approximated $5 million. 40 table of contents special notes concerning forward-looking statements as a cautionary note, except for the historical information contained herein, certain matters discussed in item 1a., risk factors , item 7., management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and item 7a., quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk , are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 (the reform act ). forward-looking statements give current expectations or forecasts of future events. words such as anticipate , expect , intend , plan , believe , seek , estimate , and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with discussions of future operating or financial performance signify forward-looking statements. from time to time, we also may provide oral or written forward-looking statements in other materials released to the public. such statements are made in good faith by us pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the reform act. we undertake no obligation to update publicly or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. such forward-looking statements involve known risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from our future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. such factors include, among other things, those set forth under item 1a. risk factors . 41 table of contentsrisk factors discussion of our business and operations included in this annual report on form 10-k should be read together with the risk factors set forth below. they describe various risks and uncertainties to which we are, or may become subject. these risks and uncertainties, together with other factors described elsewhere in this report, have the potential to affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, strategies, or prospects in a material and adverse manner. downward changes in general economic, real estate construction, or other business conditions could adversely affect our business or our financial results. the residential homebuilding industry is sensitive to changes in economic conditions and other factors, such as the level of employment, consumer confidence, consumer income, availability of financing, and interest rate levels. adverse changes in any of these conditions generally, or in the markets where we operate, could decrease demand and pricing for new homes in these areas or result in customer cancellations of pending contracts, which could adversely affect the number of home deliveries we make or reduce the prices we can charge for homes, either of which could result in a decrease in our revenues and earnings and would adversely affect our financial condition. the homebuilding industry is currently experiencing an economic down cycle, which has had an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. prior to 2006, land and home prices rose significantly in many of our markets. however, since early 2006, the homebuilding industry has been impacted by lack of consumer confidence, decreased housing affordability, rising unemployment, a significant increase in the number of foreclosed homes, and large supplies of resale and new home inventories which resulted in an industry-wide softening of demand for new homes. as a result of these factors, we have experienced significant decreases in our revenues and profitability. we have also incurred substantial impairments of our land and certain other assets. we cannot predict the duration or the severity of the current market conditions, nor provide any assurances that the adjustments we have made in our operating strategy to address these conditions will be successful. if the market value of our land and homes drops significantly, our profits could decrease. the market value of land, building lots and housing inventories can fluctuate significantly as a result of changing market conditions and the measures we employ to manage inventory risk may not be adequate to insulate our operations from a severe drop in inventory values. we acquire land for expansion into new markets and for replacement of land inventory and expansion within our current markets. if housing demand decreases below what we anticipated when we acquired our inventory, we may not be able to make profits similar to what we have made in the past, we may experience less than anticipated profits, and/or we may not be able to recover our costs when we sell and build homes. when market conditions are such that land values are not appreciating, option arrangements previously entered into may become less desirable, at which time we may elect to forego deposits and pre-acquisition costs and terminate the agreement. in the face of adverse market conditions, we may have substantial inventory carrying costs, we may have to write down our inventory to its fair value, and/or we may have to sell land or homes at a loss. as a result of the changing market conditions in the homebuilding industry that have occurred since early 2006, we incurred significant land-related charges in each of the respective periods resulting from the write-off of deposits and pre-acquisition costs related to land transactions we no longer plan to pursue, net realizable valuation adjustments related to land positions sold or held for sale, impairments on land assets related to communities under development or to be developed in the future, and impairments of our investments in unconsolidated joint ventures. it is possible that the estimated cash flows from these projects may change and could result in a future need to record additional valuation adjustments. additionally, if conditions in the homebuilding industry worsen in the future or if our strategy related to certain communities changes, we may be required to evaluate our assets, including additional projects, for additional impairments or write-downs, which could result in additional charges that might be significant. 9 table of contents our success depends on our ability to acquire land suitable for residential homebuilding at reasonable prices, in accordance with our land investment criteria. the homebuilding industry is highly competitive for suitable land. the availability of finished and partially finished developed lots and undeveloped land for purchase that meet our internal criteria depends on a number of factors outside our control, including land availability in general, competition with other homebuilders and land buyers for desirable property, inflation in land prices, zoning, allowable housing density, and other regulatory requirements. should suitable lots or land become less available, the number of homes we may be able to build and sell could be reduced, and the cost of land could be increased, perhaps substantially, which could adversely impact our results of operations. our long-term ability to build homes depends on our acquiring land suitable for residential building at reasonable prices in locations where we want to build. in recent years, we experienced significant competition for suitable land as a result of land constraints in many of our markets. as competition for suitable land increases, and as available land is developed, the cost of acquiring suitable remaining land could rise, and the availability of suitable land at acceptable prices may decline. any land shortages or any decrease in the supply of suitable land at reasonable prices could limit our ability to develop new communities or result in increased land costs. we may not be able to pass through to our customers any increased land costs, which could adversely impact our revenues, earnings, and margins. future increases in interest rates, reductions in mortgage availability, or increases in the effective costs of owning a home could prevent potential customers from buying our homes and adversely affect our business and financial results. most of our customers finance their home purchases through our mortgage bank. interest rates have been at historical lows for several years. as a result, new homes have been more affordable. increases in interest rates or decreases in availability of mortgage financing, however, could reduce the market for new homes. potential homebuyers may be less willing or able to pay the increased monthly costs or to obtain mortgage financing that exposes them to interest rate changes. lenders may increase the qualifications needed for mortgages or adjust their terms to address any increased credit risk. even if potential customers do not need financing, changes in interest rates and mortgage availability could make it harder for them to sell their current homes to potential buyers who need financing. these factors could adversely affect the sales or pricing of our homes and could also reduce the volume or margins in our financial services business. beginning in early 2007, the availability of certain mortgage financing products became more constrained as the mortgage industry began to more closely scrutinize sub-prime, alt-a, and other non-conforming mortgage products. while we do not retain any material risks associated with the loans we originate, our financial services business could be impacted to the extent we are unable to match interest rates and amounts on loans we have committed to originate through the various hedging strategies we employ. additionally, these developments have had, and may continue to have, a material adverse effect on the overall demand for new housing and thereby on the results of operations for our homebuilding business. in addition, we believe that the availability of fha and va mortgage financing is an important factor in marketing some of our homes. we also believe that the liquidity provided by fannie mae and freddie mac to the mortgage industry is important to the housing market. any limitations or restrictions on the availability of financing by these agencies could adversely affect interest rates, mortgage financing, and our sales of new homes and mortgage loans. 10 table of contents adverse capital and credit market conditions may significantly affect our access to capital and cost of capital the capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility. in recent months, the volatility and disruption have reached unprecedented levels. in many cases, the markets have exerted downward pressure on the availability of liquidity and credit capacity for issuers. we need liquidity for future growth and development of our business. without sufficient liquidity, we may not be able to purchase additional land or develop land, which could adversely affect our financial results. one source of liquidity is our unsecured revolving credit facility. in the event market conditions deteriorate further or we incur additional land-related charges or other asset impairments, we may violate certain financial covenants in the credit facility. these violations, if not waived by the lenders or cured, could result in an optional maturity date acceleration by the lenders, which might require repayment of any borrowings and replacement or cash collateralization of any letters of credit outstanding under the credit facility, and could also result in a default under our $3.2 billion of senior notes. the ability to reach an agreement with our lenders or to seek alternative sources of financing, if necessary, will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the overall availability of credit to the homebuilding industry, our credit ratings and credit capacity, as well as the possibility that lenders could develop a negative perception of our long- or short-term financial prospects if the level of our business activity decreases further due to the market downturn. at december 31, 2008, we had cash and equivalents of $1.7 billion and no borrowings outstanding under our unsecured revolving credit facility. however, our internal sources of liquidity may prove to be insufficient, and in such case, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us, or at all. competition for homebuyers could reduce our deliveries or decrease our profitability. the housing industry in the united states is highly competitive. we compete primarily on the basis of price, reputation, design, location, and quality of our homes. we compete in each of our markets with numerous national, regional, and local homebuilders. this competition with other homebuilders could reduce the number of homes we deliver or cause us to accept reduced margins in order to maintain sales volume. we also compete with resales of existing or foreclosed homes, housing speculators, and available rental housing. increased competitive conditions in the residential resale or rental market in the regions where we operate could decrease demand for new homes and increase cancellations of sales contracts in backlog. supply shortages and other risks related to the demand for skilled labor and building materials could increase costs and delay deliveries. the homebuilding industry is highly competitive for skilled labor and materials. increased costs or shortages of skilled labor and/or lumber, framing, concrete, steel, and other building materials could cause increases in construction costs and construction delays. we generally are unable to pass on increases in construction costs to those customers who have already entered into sale contracts as those sales contracts generally fix the price of the home at the time the contract is signed, which may be well in advance of the construction of the home. sustained increases in construction costs may, over time, erode our margins, and pricing competition for materials and labor may restrict our ability to pass on any additional costs, thereby decreasing our margins. 11 table of contents our income tax provision and tax reserves may be insufficient if a taxing authority is successful in asserting positions that are contrary to our interpretations and related reserves, if any. significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes and our reserves for federal, state, and local taxes. in the ordinary course of business, there may be matters for which the ultimate outcome is uncertain. although we believe our approach to determining the tax treatment is appropriate, no assurance can be given that the final tax authority review will not be materially different than that which is reflected in our income tax provision and related tax reserves. such differences could have a material adverse effect on our income tax provision in the period in which such determination is made and, consequently, on our net income for such period. we are periodically audited by various federal, state, and local authorities regarding tax matters. our current audits are in various stages of completion; however, no outcome for a particular audit can be determined with certainty prior to the conclusion of the audit, appeal and, in some cases, litigation process. as each audit is concluded, adjustments, if any, are appropriately recorded in our financial statements in the period determined. to provide for potential tax exposures, we maintain tax reserves based on reasonable estimates of potential audit results. however, if the reserves are insufficient upon completion of an audit, there could be an adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations. we may not realize our deferred income tax assets. the ultimate realization of our deferred income tax assets is dependent upon generating future taxable income, executing tax planning strategies, and reversals of existing taxable temporary differences. we have recorded a valuation allowance against our deferred income tax assets. the valuation allowance may fluctuate as conditions change. our ability to utilize net operating losses ( nols ) and tax credit carryforwards to offset our future taxable income and/or to recover previously paid taxes would be limited if we were to undergo an ownership change within the meaning of section 382 of the internal revenue code (the irc ). in general, an ownership change occurs whenever the percentage of the stock of a corporation owned by 5-percent shareholders (within the meaning of section 382 of the irc) increases by more than 50 percentage points over the lowest percentage of the stock of such corporation owned by such 5-percent shareholders at any time over the testing period. an ownership change under section 382 of the irc would establish an annual limitation to the amount of nols and tax credit carryforwards we could utilize to offset our taxable income in any single year. the application of these limitations might prevent full utilization of the deferred tax assets attributable to our nols and tax credit carryforwards. we have not experienced an ownership change as defined by section 382. however, whether a change in ownership occurs in the future is largely outside of our control, and there can be no assurance that such a change will not occur. government regulations could increase the cost and limit the availability of our development and homebuilding projects or affect our related financial services operations and adversely affect our business or financial results. our operations are subject to building, environmental, and other regulations of various federal, state, and local governing authorities. for our homes to qualify for fha or va mortgages, we must satisfy valuation standards and site, material, and construction requirements of those agencies. our compliance with federal, state, and local laws relating to protection of the environment has had, to date, no material effect upon capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position. more stringent requirements could be imposed in the future on homebuilders and developers, thereby increasing the cost of compliance. new housing developments may be subject to various assessments for schools, parks, streets, and other public improvements. these can cause an increase in the effective prices for our homes. in addition, increases in property tax rates by local governmental authorities, as recently experienced in response to reduced federal and state funding, can adversely affect the ability of potential customers to obtain financing or their desire to purchase new homes. we also are subject to a variety of local, state, and federal laws and regulations concerning protection of health, safety, and the environment. the impact of environmental laws varies depending upon the prior uses of the building site or adjoining properties and may be greater in areas with less supply where undeveloped land or desirable alternatives are less available. these matters may result in delays, may cause us to incur substantial compliance, remediation and other costs, and can prohibit or severely restrict development and homebuilding activity in environmentally sensitive regions or areas. 12 table of contents government regulations could increase the cost and limit the availability of our development and homebuilding projects or affect our related financial services operations and adversely affect our business or financial results. (continued) our financial services operations are also subject to numerous federal, state, and local laws and regulations. these include eligibility requirements for participation in federal loan programs and compliance with consumer lending and similar requirements such as disclosure requirements, prohibitions against discrimination, and real estate settlement procedures. they may also subject our operations to examination by applicable agencies. these may limit our ability to provide mortgage financing or title services to potential purchasers of our homes. homebuilding is subject to warranty and liability claims in the ordinary course of business that can be significant. as a homebuilder, we are subject to home warranty and construction defect claims arising in the ordinary course of business. we record warranty and other reserves for the homes we sell based on historical experience in our markets and our judgment of the qualitative risks associated with the types of homes built. we have, and require the majority of our subcontractors to have, general liability, property, errors and omissions, workers compensation, and other business insurance. these insurance policies protect us against a portion of our risk of loss from claims, subject to certain self-insured retentions, deductibles, and other coverage limits. through our captive insurance subsidiaries, we reserve for costs to cover our self-insured and deductible amounts under these policies and for any costs of claims and lawsuits, based on an analysis of our historical claims, which includes an estimate of claims incurred but not yet reported. because of the uncertainties inherent to these matters, we cannot provide assurance that our insurance coverage, our subcontractor arrangements and our reserves will be adequate to address all our warranty and construction defect claims in the future. contractual indemnities can be difficult to enforce, we may be responsible for applicable self-insured retentions and some types of claims may not be covered by insurance or may exceed applicable coverage limits. additionally, the coverage offered by and the availability of general liability insurance for construction defects are currently limited and costly. we have responded to the recent increases in insurance costs and coverage limitations by increasing our self-insured retentions and claim reserves. there can be no assurance that coverage will not be further restricted and become more costly. natural disasters and severe weather conditions could delay deliveries, increase costs, and decrease demand for new homes in affected areas. our homebuilding operations are located in many areas that are subject to natural disasters and severe weather. the occurrence of natural disasters or severe weather conditions can delay new home deliveries, increase costs by damaging inventories, reduce the availability of materials, and negatively impact the demand for new homes in affected areas. furthermore, if our insurance does not fully cover business interruptions or losses resulting from these events, our earnings, liquidity, or capital resources could be adversely affected. inflation may result in increased costs that we may not be able to recoup if demand declines. inflation can have a long-term impact on us because increasing costs of land, materials, and labor may require us to increase the sales prices of homes in order to maintain satisfactory margins. however, inflation is often accompanied by higher interest rates, which have a negative impact on housing demand, in which case we may not be able to raise home prices sufficiently to keep up with the rate of inflation and our margins could decrease. future terrorist attacks against the united states or increased domestic and international instability could have an adverse effect on our operations. a future terrorist attack against the united states could cause a sharp decrease in the number of new contracts signed for homes and an increase in the cancellation of existing contracts. accordingly, adverse developments in the war on terrorism, future terrorist attacks against the united states, or increased domestic and international instability could adversely affect our business. 13 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are subject to interest rate risk on our rate-sensitive financing to the extent long-term rates decline. the following tables set forth, as of december 31, 2008 and 2007, our rate-sensitive financing obligations, principal cash flows by scheduled maturity, weighted-average interest rates, and estimated fair value ($000 omitted). as of december 31, 2008 for the years ending december 31, 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 thereafter total fair value rate-sensitive liabilities: fixed interest rate debt: senior notes $ 25,412 $ $ 698,563 $ $ 300,000 $ 2,150,000 $ 3,173,975 $ 2,136,628 average interest rate 4.88 % 7.95 % 6.25 % 6.24 % 6.60 % non-recourse collateralized financing $ 3,840 $ 890 $ 890 $ 75 $ $ $ 5,695 $ 5,695 average interest rate 6.22 % 7.25 % 7.25 % 7.25 % as of december 31, 2007 for the years ending december 31, 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 thereafter total fair value rate-sensitive liabilities: fixed interest rate debt: senior notes $ $ 338,812 $ $ 698,563 $ $ 2,450,000 $ 3,487,375 $ 2,962,634 average interest rate 4.88 % 7.95 % 6.24 % 6.45 % non-recourse collateralized financing $ 4,120 $ 3,490 $ 890 $ 890 $ $ $ 9,390 $ 9,390 average interest rate 5.65 % 5.57 % 7.25 % 7.25 % 5.93 % pulte mortgage, operating as a mortgage banker, is also subject to interest rate risk. interest rate risk begins when we commit to lend money to a customer at agreed-upon terms (i.e., commit to lend at a certain interest rate for a certain period of time). the interest rate risk continues through the loan closing and until the loan is sold to an investor. during 2008 and 2007, this period of interest rate exposure averaged approximately 60 days. in periods of rising interest rates, the length of exposure will generally increase due to customers locking in an interest rate sooner as opposed to letting the interest rate float. we minimize interest rate risk by (i) financing the loans via a variable rate borrowing agreement tied to libor and (ii) hedging our loan commitments and closed loans through derivative financial instruments. these financial instruments include cash forward placement contracts on mortgage-backed securities, whole loan investor commitments, options on treasury future contracts, and options on cash forward placement contracts on mortgage-backed securities. we do not use any derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. hypothetical changes in the fair values of our financial instruments arising from immediate parallel shifts in long-term mortgage rates of plus 50, 100, and 150 basis points would not be material to our financial results. at december 31, 2008, our aggregate net investment exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk includes our remaining non-operating investments in mexico, which approximated $6 million. 40 table of contents special notes concerning forward-looking statements as a cautionary note, except for the historical information contained herein, certain matters discussed in item 1a., risk factors , item 7., management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and item 7a., quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk , are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 (the reform act ). forward-looking statements give current expectations or forecasts of future events. words such as anticipate , expect , intend , plan , believe , seek , estimate , and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with discussions of future operating or financial performance signify forward-looking statements. from time to time, we also may provide oral or written forward-looking statements in other materials released to the public. such statements are made in good faith by us pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the reform act. we undertake no obligation to update publicly or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. such forward-looking statements involve known risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from our future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. such factors include, among other things, those set forth under item 1a. - risk factors . 41 table of contentsrisk factors discussion of our business and operations included in this annual report on form 10-k should be read together with the risk factors set forth below. they describe various risks and uncertainties to which we are, or may become, subject. these risks and uncertainties, together with other factors described elsewhere in this report, have the potential to affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, strategies, or prospects in a material and adverse manner. downward changes in general economic, real estate construction, or other business conditions could adversely affect our business or our financial results. the residential homebuilding industry is sensitive to changes in economic conditions and other factors, such as the level of employment, consumer confidence, consumer income, availability of financing, and interest rate levels. adverse changes in any of these conditions generally, or in the markets where we operate, could decrease demand and pricing for new homes in these areas or result in customer cancellations of pending contracts, which could adversely affect the number of home deliveries we make or reduce the prices we can charge for homes, either of which could result in a decrease in our revenues and earnings and would adversely affect our financial condition. the homebuilding industry is currently experiencing an economic down cycle, which has had an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. prior to 2006, land and home prices rose significantly in many of our markets. however, since early 2006, the homebuilding industry has been impacted by lack of consumer confidence, rising unemployment, a significant increase in the number of foreclosed homes, and large supplies of resale and new home inventories which resulted in an industry-wide softening of demand for new homes. as a result of these factors, we have experienced significant decreases in our revenues and profitability. we have also incurred substantial impairments of our land and certain other assets. we cannot predict the duration or the severity of the current market conditions, nor provide any assurances that the adjustments we have made in our operating strategy to address these conditions will be successful. if the market value of our land and homes drops significantly, our profits could decrease. the market value of land, building lots and housing inventories can fluctuate significantly as a result of changing market conditions and the measures we employ to manage inventory risk may not be adequate to insulate our operations from a severe drop in inventory values. we acquire land for expansion into new markets and for replacement of land inventory and expansion within our current markets. if housing demand decreases below what we anticipated when we acquired our inventory, we may not be able to make profits similar to what we have made in the past, we may experience less than anticipated profits, and/or we may not be able to recover our costs when we sell and build homes. when market conditions are such that land values are not appreciating, option arrangements previously entered into may become less desirable, at which time we may elect to forego deposits and pre-acquisition costs and terminate the agreement. in the face of adverse market conditions, we may have substantial inventory carrying costs, we may have to write down our inventory to its fair value, and/or we may have to sell land or homes at a loss. as a result of the changing market conditions in the homebuilding industry that have occurred since early 2006, we incurred significant land-related charges in each of the respective periods resulting from the write-off of deposits and pre-acquisition costs related to land transactions we no longer plan to pursue, net realizable valuation adjustments related to land positions sold or held for sale, impairments on land assets related to communities under development or to be developed in the future, and impairments of our investments in unconsolidated joint ventures. it is possible that the estimated cash flows from these projects may change and could result in a future need to record additional valuation adjustments. additionally, if conditions in the homebuilding industry worsen in the future or if our strategy related to certain communities changes, we may be required to evaluate our assets, including additional projects, for additional impairments or write-downs, which could result in additional charges that might be significant. 10 table of contents item 1a. risk factors (continued) our success depends on our ability to acquire land suitable for residential homebuilding at reasonable prices, in accordance with our land investment criteria. the homebuilding industry is highly competitive for suitable land. the availability of finished and partially finished developed lots and undeveloped land for purchase that meet our internal criteria depends on a number of factors outside our control, including land availability in general, competition with other homebuilders and land buyers for desirable property, inflation in land prices, zoning, allowable housing density, and other regulatory requirements. should suitable lots or land become less available, the number of homes we may be able to build and sell could be reduced, and the cost of land could be increased, perhaps substantially, which could adversely impact our results of operations. our long-term ability to build homes depends on our acquiring land suitable for residential building at reasonable prices in locations where we want to build. in recent years, we experienced significant competition for suitable land as a result of land constraints in many of our markets. as competition for suitable land increases, and as available land is developed, the cost of acquiring suitable remaining land could rise, and the availability of suitable land at acceptable prices may decline. any land shortages or any decrease in the supply of suitable land at reasonable prices could limit our ability to develop new communities or result in increased land costs. we may not be able to pass through to our customers any increased land costs, which could adversely impact our revenues, earnings, and margins. future increases in interest rates, reductions in mortgage availability, or increases in the effective costs of owning a home could prevent potential customers from buying our homes and adversely affect our business and financial results. most of our customers finance their home purchases through our mortgage bank. interest rates have been at historical lows for several years. as a result, new homes have been more affordable. increases in interest rates or decreases in availability of mortgage financing, however, could reduce the market for new homes. potential homebuyers may be less willing or able to pay the increased monthly costs or to obtain mortgage financing that exposes them to interest rate changes. lenders may increase the qualifications needed for mortgages or adjust their terms to address any increased credit risk. even if potential customers do not need financing, changes in interest rates and mortgage availability could make it harder for them to sell their current homes to potential buyers who need financing. these factors could adversely affect the sales or pricing of our homes and could also reduce the volume or margins in our financial services business. beginning in early 2007, the availability of certain mortgage financing products became more constrained as the mortgage industry began to more closely scrutinize sub-prime, alt-a, and other non-conforming mortgage products. our financial services business could also be impacted to the extent we are unable to match interest rates and amounts on loans we have committed to originate through the various hedging strategies we employ. additionally, these developments have had, and may continue to have, a material adverse effect on the overall demand for new housing and thereby on the results of operations for our homebuilding business. in addition, the federal reserve has purchased a sizeable amount of mortgage-backed securities in part to stabilize mortgage interest rates and to support the market for mortgage-backed securities. recently, the federal reserve announced plans to discontinue its purchase of mortgage-backed securities in the coming months. the availability and affordability of mortgage loans, including the consumer interest rates for such loans, could be adversely affected by the federal reserve actions. we also believe that the availability of fha and va mortgage financing is an important factor in marketing some of our homes. the fha recently reported that its cash reserves have fallen below legal requirements due to defaults on mortgages it has insured and, as a result, it has and may continue to impose stricter loan qualification standards, raise minimum down payment requirements, impose higher mortgage insurance premiums and other costs and/or limit the number of mortgages it insures. the liquidity provided by fannie mae and freddie mac to the mortgage industry is also critical to the housing market. the impact of the federal government conservatorship of fannie mae and freddie mac on the short-term and long-term demand for new housing remains unclear. any limitations or restrictions on the availability of financing by these agencies could adversely affect interest rates, mortgage financing, and our sales of new homes and mortgage loans. 11 table of contents item 1a. risk factors (continued) adverse capital and credit market conditions may significantly affect our access to capital and cost of capital. the capital and credit markets have been experiencing significant volatility. in many cases, the markets have exerted downward pressure on the availability of liquidity and credit capacity for issuers. we need liquidity for future growth and development of our business. without sufficient liquidity, we may not be able to purchase additional land or develop land, which could adversely affect our financial results. one source of liquidity is our unsecured revolving credit facility. in the event market conditions deteriorate further or we incur additional land-related charges or other asset impairments, we may violate certain financial covenants in the credit facility. these violations, if not waived by the lenders or cured, could result in an optional maturity date acceleration by the lenders, which might require repayment of any borrowings and replacement or cash collateralization of any letters of credit outstanding under the credit facility, and could also result in a default under our $4.3 billion of senior notes. the ability to reach an agreement with our lenders or to seek alternative sources of financing, if necessary, would depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the overall availability of credit to the homebuilding industry, our credit ratings and credit capacity, as well as the possibility that lenders could develop a negative perception of our long- or short-term financial prospects if the level of our business activity decreases further due to the market downturn. at december 31, 2009, we had cash and equivalents of $1.9 billion and no borrowings outstanding under our unsecured revolving credit facility. however, our internal sources of liquidity may prove to be insufficient, and in such case, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us, or at all. competition for homebuyers could reduce our deliveries or decrease our profitability. the housing industry in the united states is highly competitive. we compete primarily on the basis of price, reputation, design, location, and quality of our homes. we compete in each of our markets with numerous national, regional, and local homebuilders. this competition with other homebuilders could reduce the number of homes we deliver or cause us to accept reduced margins in order to maintain sales volume. we also compete with resales of existing or foreclosed homes, housing speculators, and available rental housing. increased competitive conditions in the residential resale or rental market in the regions where we operate could decrease demand for new homes and increase cancellations of sales contracts in backlog. supply shortages and other risks related to the demand for skilled labor and building materials could increase costs and delay deliveries. the homebuilding industry is highly competitive for skilled labor and materials. increased costs or shortages of skilled labor and/or lumber, framing, concrete, steel, and other building materials could cause increases in construction costs and construction delays. we generally are unable to pass on increases in construction costs to those customers who have already entered into sale contracts as those sales contracts generally fix the price of the home at the time the contract is signed, which may be well in advance of the construction of the home. sustained increases in construction costs may, over time, erode our margins, and pricing competition for materials and labor may restrict our ability to pass on any additional costs, thereby decreasing our margins. our income tax provision and tax reserves may be insufficient if a taxing authority is successful in asserting positions that are contrary to our interpretations and related reserves, if any. significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes and our reserves for federal, state, and local taxes. in the ordinary course of business, there may be matters for which the ultimate outcome is uncertain. although we believe our approach to determining the tax treatment is appropriate, no assurance can be given that the final tax authority review will not be materially different than that which is reflected in our income tax provision and related tax reserves. such differences could have a material adverse effect on our income tax provision in the period in which such determination is made and, consequently, on our net income for such period. 12 table of contents item 1a. risk factors (continued) our income tax provision and tax reserves may be insufficient if a taxing authority is successful in asserting positions that are contrary to our interpretations and related reserves, if any. (continued) we are periodically audited by various federal, state, and local authorities regarding tax matters. our current audits are in various stages of completion; however, no outcome for a particular audit can be determined with certainty prior to the conclusion of the audit, appeal and, in some cases, litigation process. as each audit is concluded, adjustments, if any, are appropriately recorded in our financial statements in the period determined. to provide for potential tax exposures, we maintain tax reserves based on reasonable estimates of potential audit results. however, if the reserves are insufficient upon completion of an audit, there could be an adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations. we have significant goodwill and intangible assets. if the goodwill becomes impaired, then our profits may be significantly reduced or eliminated and shareholders equity may be reduced. we have recorded significant goodwill and intangible assets related to prior business combinations. we evaluate the recoverability of goodwill and intangible assets whenever facts and circumstances indicate the carrying amount may not be recoverable. we also perform our annual impairment testing of goodwill in the fourth quarter of each year. if the carrying value of goodwill exceeds its estimated fair value, impairment is deemed to have occurred and the carrying value of goodwill is written down to fair value. this would result in a charge to our operating earnings. we recorded goodwill impairments of $563.0 million, $5.7 million, and $370.0 million in 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively, and have $895.9 million and $188.5 million of goodwill and intangible assets, respectively, remaining at december 31, 2009. if management expectations of future results and cash flows decrease significantly, additional impairments of either goodwill or intangible assets may occur. we may not realize our deferred income tax assets. the ultimate realization of our deferred income tax assets is dependent upon generating future taxable income, executing tax planning strategies, and reversals of existing taxable temporary differences. we have recorded a valuation allowance against our deferred income tax assets. the valuation allowance will fluctuate as conditions change. our ability to utilize net operating losses ( nols ), built-in losses ( bils ), and tax credit carryforwards to offset our future taxable income and/or to recover previously paid taxes would be limited if we were to undergo an ownership change within the meaning of section 382 of the internal revenue code (the irc ). in general, an ownership change occurs whenever the percentage of the stock of a corporation owned by 5-percent shareholders (within the meaning of section 382 of the irc) increases by more than 50 percentage points over the lowest percentage of the stock of such corporation owned by such 5-percent shareholders at any time over the testing period. an ownership change under section 382 of the irc would establish an annual limitation to the amount of nols, bils, and tax credit carryforwards we could utilize to offset our taxable income in any single year. the application of these limitations might prevent full utilization of the deferred tax assets attributable to our nols, bils, and tax credit carryforwards. we have not experienced an ownership change as defined by section 382. to preserve our ability utilize nols, bils, and other tax benefits in the future without a section 382 limitation, we adopted a shareholder rights plan, which is triggered upon certain transfers of our securities, and amended our by-laws to prohibit certain transfers of our securities. notwithstanding the foregoing measures, there can be no assurance that we will not undergo an ownership change within the meaning of section 382. as a result of the merger with centex, our ability to use certain of centex pre-ownership change nols, bils, or deductions will be limited under section 382 of the internal revenue code. the applicable section 382 limitation is approximately $68 million per year for nols, losses realized on built-in loss assets that are sold within five years of the ownership change, and certain deductions. the limitation may result in a significant portion of centex pre-ownership change nols, bils, and tax credit carryforwards or deductions not being available for our use. 13 table of contents item 1a. risk factors (continued) pulte may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of the centex merger. the company ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the centex merger will depend, to a large extent, on the ability of the company to integrate the businesses of centex with the company. the combination of two independent companies is a complex, costly and time-consuming process. as a result, the company will be required to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating the business practices and operations of the company and centex. the integration process may disrupt the business of the company and, if implemented ineffectively, would preclude realization of the full benefits expected by the company. the failure of the company to meet the challenges involved in integrating successfully the operations of centex or otherwise to realize the anticipated benefits of the centex merger could cause an interruption of, or a loss of momentum in, the activities of the company and could seriously harm its results of operations. in addition, the overall integration of the two companies may result in unanticipated problems, expenses, liabilities, competitive responses, loss of customer and supplier relationships, and diversion of management attention. government regulations could increase the cost and limit the availability of our development and homebuilding projects or affect our related financial services operations and adversely affect our business or financial results. our operations are subject to building, environmental, and other regulations of various federal, state, and local governing authorities. for our homes to qualify for fha or va mortgages, we must satisfy valuation standards and site, material, and construction requirements of those agencies. our compliance with federal, state, and local laws relating to protection of the environment has had, to date, no material effect upon capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position. more stringent requirements could be imposed in the future on homebuilders and developers, thereby increasing the cost of compliance. new housing developments may be subject to various assessments for schools, parks, streets, and other public improvements. these can cause an increase in the effective prices for our homes. in addition, increases in property tax rates by local governmental authorities, as recently experienced in response to reduced federal and state funding, can adversely affect the ability of potential customers to obtain financing or their desire to purchase new homes. we also are subject to a variety of local, state, and federal laws and regulations concerning protection of health, safety, and the environment. the impact of environmental laws varies depending upon the prior uses of the building site or adjoining properties and may be greater in areas with less supply where undeveloped land or desirable alternatives are less available. these matters may result in delays, may cause us to incur substantial compliance, remediation and other costs, and can prohibit or severely restrict development and homebuilding activity in environmentally sensitive regions or areas. our financial services operations are also subject to numerous federal, state, and local laws and regulations. these include eligibility requirements for participation in federal loan programs and compliance with consumer lending and similar requirements such as disclosure requirements, prohibitions against discrimination, and real estate settlement procedures. they may also subject our operations to examination by applicable agencies. these may limit our ability to provide mortgage financing or title services to potential purchasers of our homes. 14 table of contents item 1a. risk factors (continued) homebuilding is subject to warranty and liability claims in the ordinary course of business that can be significant. as a homebuilder, we are subject to home warranty and construction defect claims arising in the ordinary course of business. we record warranty and other reserves for the homes we sell based on historical experience in our markets and our judgment of the qualitative risks associated with the types of homes built. we have, and require the majority of our subcontractors to have, general liability, property, errors and omissions, workers compensation, and other business insurance. these insurance policies protect us against a portion of our risk of loss from claims, subject to certain self-insured retentions, deductibles, and other coverage limits. through our captive insurance subsidiaries, we reserve for costs to cover our self-insured and deductible amounts under these policies and for any costs of claims and lawsuits, based on an analysis of our historical claims, which includes an estimate of claims incurred but not yet reported. because of the uncertainties inherent in these matters, we cannot provide assurance that our insurance coverage, our subcontractor arrangements, and our reserves will be adequate to address all our warranty and construction defect claims in the future. contractual indemnities can be difficult to enforce, we may be responsible for applicable self-insured retentions, and some types of claims may not be covered by insurance or may exceed applicable coverage limits. additionally, the coverage offered by and the availability of general liability insurance for construction defects are currently costly and limited. we have responded to the recent increases in insurance costs and coverage limitations by increasing our self-insured retentions and claim reserves. there can be no assurance that coverage will not be further restricted and become more costly. natural disasters and severe weather conditions could delay deliveries, increase costs, and decrease demand for new homes in affected areas. our homebuilding operations are located in many areas that are subject to natural disasters and severe weather. the occurrence of natural disasters or severe weather conditions can delay new home deliveries, increase costs by damaging inventories, reduce the availability of materials, and negatively impact the demand for new homes in affected areas. furthermore, if our insurance does not fully cover business interruptions or losses resulting from these events, our earnings, liquidity, or capital resources could be adversely affected. inflation may result in increased costs that we may not be able to recoup if demand declines. inflation can have a long-term impact on us because increasing costs of land, materials, and labor may require us to increase the sales prices of homes in order to maintain satisfactory margins. in addition, inflation is often accompanied by higher interest rates, which have a negative impact on housing demand, in which case we may not be able to raise home prices sufficiently to keep up with the rate of inflation and our margins could decrease. future terrorist attacks against the united states or increased domestic and international instability could have an adverse effect on our operations. a future terrorist attack against the united states could cause a sharp decrease in the number of new contracts signed for homes and an increase in the cancellation of existing contracts. accordingly, adverse developments in the war on terrorism, future terrorist attacks against the united states, or increased domestic and international instability could adversely affect our business. 15 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are subject to interest rate risk on our rate-sensitive financing to the extent long-term rates decline. the following tables set forth, as of december 31, 2009 and 2008, our rate-sensitive financing obligations, principal cash flows by scheduled maturity, weighted-average interest rates, and estimated fair value ($000 omitted). as of december 31, 2009 for the years ending december 31, 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 thereafter total fair value rate-sensitive liabilities: fixed interest rate debt: senior notes $ 47,427 $ 231,683 $ 236,961 $ 495,131 $ 813,996 $ 2,522,865 $ 4,348,063 $ 4,087,269 average interest rate 4.55% 7.89% 6.40% 5.64% 5.44% 6.33% 6.15% non-recourse collateralized financing $ 835 $ 839 $ 105 $ 42 $ 47 $ 136 $ 2,004 $ 2,004 average interest rate 7.35% 7.36% 8.25% 10.00% 10.00% 10.00% 7.70% as of december 31, 2008 for the years ending december 31, 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 thereafter total fair value rate-sensitive liabilities: fixed interest rate debt: senior notes $ 25,412 $ - $ 698,563 $ - $ 300,000 $ 2,150,000 $ 3,173,975 $ 2,136,628 average interest rate 4.88% - 7.95% - 6.25% 6.24% 6.60% non-recourse collateralized financing $ 3,840 $ 890 $ 890 $ 75 $ - $ - $ 5,695 $ 5,695 average interest rate 6.22% 7.25% 7.25% 7.25% - - 6.55% the increase in senior notes outstanding at december 31, 2009 compared with december 31, 2008 resulted from the senior notes assumed with the centex merger. pulte mortgage, operating as a mortgage banker, is also subject to interest rate risk. interest rate risk begins when we commit to lend money to a customer at agreed-upon terms (i.e., commit to lend at a certain interest rate for a certain period of time). the interest rate risk continues through the loan closing and until the loan is sold to an investor. during 2009 and 2008, this period of interest rate exposure averaged approximately 60 days. in periods of rising interest rates, the length of exposure will generally increase due to customers locking in an interest rate sooner as opposed to letting the interest rate float. we minimize interest rate risk by (i) financing the loans via a variable rate borrowing agreement tied to libor and (ii) hedging our loan commitments and closed loans through derivative financial instruments. these financial instruments include cash forward placement contracts on mortgage-backed securities, whole loan investor commitments, options on treasury future contracts, and options on cash forward placement contracts on mortgage-backed securities. we do not use any derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. hypothetical changes in the fair values of our financial instruments arising from immediate parallel shifts in long-term mortgage rates of plus 50, 100, and 150 basis points would not be material to our financial results. at december 31, 2009, our aggregate net investment exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk includes our remaining non-operating investments in mexico, which approximated $0.2 million. 45 table of contents special notes concerning forward-looking statements as a cautionary note, except for the historical information contained herein, certain matters discussed in item 1a., risk factors , item 7., management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and item 7a., quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk , are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 (the reform act ). forward-looking statements give current expectations or forecasts of future events. words such as anticipate , expect , intend , plan , believe , seek , estimate , and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with discussions of future operating or financial performance signify forward-looking statements. from time to time, we also may provide oral or written forward-looking statements in other materials released to the public. such statements are made in good faith by us pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the reform act. we undertake no obligation to update publicly or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. such forward-looking statements involve known risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from our future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. such factors include, among other things, those set forth under item 1a. - risk factors . 46 table of contentsrisk factors discussion of our business and operations included in this annual report on form 10-k should be read together with the risk factors set forth below. they describe various risks and uncertainties to which we are, or may become, subject. these risks and uncertainties, together with other factors described elsewhere in this report, have the potential to affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, strategies, or prospects in a material and adverse manner. downward changes in general economic, real estate construction, or other business conditions could adversely affect our business or our financial results. the residential homebuilding industry is sensitive to changes in economic conditions and other factors, such as the level of employment, consumer confidence, consumer income, availability of financing, and interest rate levels. adverse changes in any of these conditions generally, or in the markets where we operate, could decrease demand and pricing for new homes in these areas or result in customer cancellations of pending contracts, which could adversely affect the number of home deliveries we make or reduce the prices we can charge for homes, either of which could result in a decrease in our revenues and earnings and would adversely affect our financial condition. the homebuilding industry is currently experiencing an economic down cycle, which has had an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. prior to 2006, land and home prices rose significantly in many of our markets. however, since early 2006, the homebuilding industry has been impacted by weak consumer confidence, tightened mortgage standards, a significant increase in the number of foreclosed homes, and large supplies of resale and new home inventories which have contributed to an industry-wide softening of demand for new homes. as a result of these factors, we have experienced significant decreases in our revenues and profitability. we have also incurred substantial impairments of our land and certain other assets. we cannot predict the duration or the severity of the current market conditions, nor provide any assurances that the adjustments we have made in our operating strategy to address these conditions will be successful. if the market value of our land and homes drops significantly, our profits could decrease. the market value of land, building lots and housing inventories can fluctuate significantly as a result of changing market conditions and the measures we employ to manage inventory risk may not be adequate to insulate our operations from a severe drop in inventory values. we acquire land for expansion into new markets and for replacement of land inventory and expansion within our current markets. if housing demand decreases below what we anticipated when we acquired our inventory, we may not be able to make profits similar to what we have made in the past, we may experience less than anticipated profits, and/or we may not be able to recover our costs when we sell and build homes. when market conditions are such that land values are not appreciating, option arrangements previously entered into may become less desirable, at which time we may elect to forego deposits and pre-acquisition costs and terminate the agreement. in the face of adverse market conditions, we may have substantial inventory carrying costs, we may have to write down our inventory to its fair value, and/or we may have to sell land or homes at a loss. as a result of the changing market conditions in the homebuilding industry that have occurred since early 2006, we incurred significant land-related charges in each of the respective periods resulting from the write-off of deposits and pre-acquisition costs related to land transactions we no longer plan to pursue, net realizable valuation adjustments related to land positions sold or held for sale, impairments on land assets related to communities under development or to be developed in the future, and impairments of our investments in unconsolidated joint ventures. it is possible that the estimated cash flows from these projects may change and could result in a future need to record additional valuation adjustments. additionally, if conditions in the homebuilding industry worsen in the future or if our strategy related to certain communities changes, we may be required to evaluate our assets, including additional projects, for additional impairments or write-downs, which could result in additional charges that might be significant. our success depends on our ability to acquire land suitable for residential homebuilding at reasonable prices, in accordance with our land investment criteria. the homebuilding industry is highly competitive for suitable land. the availability of finished and partially finished developed lots and undeveloped land for purchase that meet our internal criteria depends on a number of factors outside our control, including land availability in general, competition with other homebuilders and land buyers 9 table of contents our success depends on our ability to acquire land suitable for residential homebuilding at reasonable prices, in accordance with our land investment criteria. (continued) for desirable property, inflation in land prices, zoning, allowable housing density, and other regulatory requirements. should suitable lots or land become less available, the number of homes we may be able to build and sell could be reduced, and the cost of land could be increased, perhaps substantially, which could adversely impact our results of operations. our long-term ability to build homes depends on our acquiring land suitable for residential building at reasonable prices in locations where we want to build. in the past, we experienced significant competition for suitable land as a result of land constraints in many of our markets. as competition for suitable land increases, and as available land is developed, the cost of acquiring suitable remaining land could rise, and the availability of suitable land at acceptable prices may decline. any land shortages or any decrease in the supply of suitable land at reasonable prices could limit our ability to develop new communities or result in increased land costs. we may not be able to pass through to our customers any increased land costs, which could adversely impact our revenues, earnings, and margins. future increases in interest rates, reductions in mortgage availability, or increases in the effective costs of owning a home could prevent potential customers from buying our homes and adversely affect our business and financial results. most of our customers finance their home purchases through our mortgage bank. interest rates have been at historical lows for several years. as a result, new homes have been more affordable. increases in interest rates or decreases in availability of mortgage financing, however, could reduce the market for new homes. potential homebuyers may be less willing or able to pay the increased monthly costs or to obtain mortgage financing that exposes them to interest rate changes. lenders may increase the qualifications needed for mortgages or adjust their terms to address any increased credit risk. even if potential customers do not need financing, changes in interest rates and mortgage availability could make it harder for them to sell their current homes to potential buyers who need financing. these factors could adversely affect the sales or pricing of our homes and could also reduce the volume or margins in our financial services business. beginning in early 2007, the availability of certain mortgage financing products became more constrained as the mortgage industry began to more closely scrutinize sub-prime, alt-a, and other non-conforming mortgage products. our financial services business could also be impacted to the extent we are unable to match interest rates and amounts on loans we have committed to originate through the various hedging strategies we employ. additionally, these developments have had, and may continue to have, a material adverse effect on the overall demand for new housing and thereby on the results of operations for our homebuilding business. in addition, the federal reserve has purchased a sizeable amount of mortgage-backed securities in part to stabilize mortgage interest rates and to support the market for mortgage-backed securities. as the federal reserve reduces its holdings of mortgage-backed securities over time, the availability and affordability of mortgage loans, including the consumer interest rates for such loans, could be adversely affected. we also believe that the availability of fha and va mortgage financing is an important factor in marketing some of our homes. the fha has and may continue to impose stricter loan qualification standards, raise minimum down payment requirements, impose higher mortgage insurance premiums and other costs and/or limit the number of mortgages it insures. the liquidity provided by fannie mae and freddie mac to the mortgage industry is also critical to the housing market. the impact of the federal government conservatorship of fannie mae and freddie mac on the short-term and long-term demand for new housing remains unclear. any limitations or restrictions on the availability of financing by these agencies could adversely affect interest rates, mortgage financing, and our sales of new homes and mortgage loans. significant costs of homeownership include mortgage interest expense and real estate taxes, both of which are generally deductible for an individual federal and, in some cases, state income taxes. any changes to income tax laws by the federal government or a state government to eliminate or substantially reduce these income tax deductions, as has been considered from time to time, would increase the after-tax cost of owning a home. increases in real estate taxes by local governmental authorities also increase the cost of homeownership. any such increases to the cost of homeownership could adversely impact the demand for and sales prices of new homes. 10 table of contents adverse capital and credit market conditions may significantly affect our access to capital and cost of capital. the capital and credit markets have experienced significant volatility in recent years. in many cases, the markets have exerted downward pressure on the availability of liquidity and credit capacity for issuers. we need liquidity for future growth and development of our business. without sufficient liquidity, we may not be able to purchase additional land or develop land, which could adversely affect our financial results. one source of liquidity is our unsecured revolving credit facility. in the event the current challenging market conditions persist or we incur additional land-related charges or other asset impairments, we may violate certain financial covenants in the credit facility. these violations, if not waived by the lenders or cured, could result in an optional maturity date acceleration by the lenders, which might require repayment of any borrowings and replacement or cash collateralization of any letters of credit outstanding under the credit facility, and could also result in a default under our $3.4 billion of senior notes. the ability to reach an agreement with our lenders or to seek alternative sources of financing, if necessary, would depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the overall availability of credit to the homebuilding industry, our credit ratings and credit capacity, as well as the possibility that lenders could develop a negative perception of our long- or short-term financial prospects if the level of our business activity decreases further due to the market downturn. at december 31, 2010, we had cash and equivalents of $1.5 billion and no borrowings outstanding under our unsecured revolving credit facility. however, our internal sources of liquidity may prove to be insufficient, and in such case, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us, or at all. another source of liquidity includes our ability to use letters of credit and surety bonds pursuant to certain performance-related obligations and as security for certain land option agreements and under various insurance programs. the majority of these letters of credit and surety bonds are in support of our land development and construction obligations to various municipalities, other government agencies, and utility companies related to the construction of roads, sewers, and other infrastructure. if we are unable to obtain letters of credit or performance bonds when required, or the conditions imposed by issuers increase significantly, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. competition for homebuyers could reduce our deliveries or decrease our profitability. the housing industry in the united states is highly competitive. we compete primarily on the basis of location, price, reputation, design, community amenities, and the quality of our homes. we compete in each of our markets with numerous national, regional, and local homebuilders. this competition with other homebuilders could reduce the number of homes we deliver or cause us to accept reduced margins in order to maintain sales volume. we also compete with resales of existing or foreclosed homes, housing speculators, and available rental housing. increased competitive conditions in the residential resale or rental market in the regions where we operate could decrease demand for new homes and increase cancellations of sales contracts in backlog. supply shortages and other risks related to the demand for skilled labor and building materials could increase costs and delay deliveries. the homebuilding industry is highly competitive for skilled labor and materials. additionally, the cost of certain building materials, especially lumber, steel, and concrete, is influenced by changes in global commodity prices. increased costs or shortages of skilled labor and/or materials could cause increases in construction costs and construction delays. we generally are unable to pass on increases in construction costs to those customers who have already entered into sale contracts as those sales contracts generally fix the price of the home at the time the contract is signed, which may be well in advance of the construction of the home. sustained increases in construction costs may, over time, erode our margins, and pricing competition for materials and labor may restrict our ability to pass on any additional costs, thereby decreasing our margins. our income tax provision and tax reserves may be insufficient if a taxing authority is successful in asserting positions that are contrary to our interpretations and related reserves, if any. significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes and our reserves for federal, state, and local taxes. in the ordinary course of business, there may be matters for which the ultimate outcome is uncertain. our evaluation is based on a number of factors, including changes in facts or circumstances, changes in tax law, 11 table of contents our income tax provision and tax reserves may be insufficient if a taxing authority is successful in asserting positions that are contrary to our interpretations and related reserves, if any. (continued) correspondence with tax authorities during the course of audits, and effective settlement of audit issues. although we believe our approach to determining the tax treatment is appropriate, no assurance can be given that the final tax authority review will not be materially different than that which is reflected in our income tax provision and related tax reserves. such differences could have a material adverse effect on our income tax provision in the period in which such determination is made and, consequently, on our net income for such period. we are periodically audited by various federal, state, and local authorities regarding tax matters. our current audits are in various stages of completion; however, no outcome for a particular audit can be determined with certainty prior to the conclusion of the audit, appeal and, in some cases, litigation process. as each audit is concluded, adjustments, if any, are appropriately recorded in our financial statements in the period determined. to provide for potential tax exposures, we maintain tax reserves based on reasonable estimates of potential audit results. however, if the reserves are insufficient upon completion of an audit, there could be an adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations. we may not realize our deferred income tax assets. the ultimate realization of our deferred income tax assets is dependent upon generating future taxable income, executing tax planning strategies, and reversals of existing taxable temporary differences. we have recorded valuation allowances against our deferred income tax assets. the valuation allowance will fluctuate as conditions change. our ability to utilize net operating losses ( nols ), built-in losses ( bils ), and tax credit carryforwards to offset our future taxable income and/or to recover previously paid taxes would be limited if we were to undergo an ownership change within the meaning of section 382 of the internal revenue code (the irc ). in general, an ownership change occurs whenever the percentage of the stock of a corporation owned by 5-percent shareholders (within the meaning of section 382 of the irc) increases by more than 50 percentage points over the lowest percentage of the stock of such corporation owned by such 5-percent shareholders at any time over the testing period. an ownership change under section 382 of the irc would establish an annual limitation to the amount of nols, bils, and tax credit carryforwards we could utilize to offset our taxable income in any single year. the application of these limitations might prevent full utilization of the deferred tax assets attributable to our nols, bils, and tax credit carryforwards. we have not experienced an ownership change as defined by section 382. to preserve our ability to utilize nols, bils, and other tax benefits in the future without a section 382 limitation, we adopted a shareholder rights plan, which is triggered upon certain transfers of our securities, and amended our by-laws to prohibit certain transfers of our securities. notwithstanding the foregoing measures, there can be no assurance that we will not undergo an ownership change within the meaning of section 382. as a result of the merger with centex, our ability to use certain of centex pre-ownership change nols, bils, or deductions is limited under section 382 of the internal revenue code. the applicable section 382 limitation is approximately $68 million per year for nols, losses realized on built-in loss assets that are sold within 60 months of the ownership change, and certain deductions. the limitation may result in a significant portion of centex pre-ownership change nols, bils, and tax credit carryforwards or deductions not being available for our use. we have significant goodwill and intangible assets. if the goodwill becomes impaired, then our profits may be significantly reduced or eliminated and shareholders equity may be reduced. we have recorded significant goodwill and intangible assets related to prior business combinations. we evaluate the recoverability of goodwill and intangible assets whenever facts and circumstances indicate the carrying amount may not be recoverable. we also perform our annual impairment testing of goodwill in the fourth quarter of each year. if the carrying value of goodwill or intangible assets is deemed impaired, the carrying value is written down to fair value. this would result in a charge to our operating earnings. we recorded goodwill impairments of $656.3 million, $563.0 million, and $5.7 million in 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively, and have $240.5 million and $175.4 million of goodwill and intangible assets, respectively, remaining at december 31, 2010. if management expectations of future results and cash flows decrease significantly, additional impairments of either goodwill or intangible assets may occur. 12 table of contents government regulations could increase the cost and limit the availability of our development and homebuilding projects or affect our related financial services operations and adversely affect our business or financial results. our operations are subject to building, environmental, and other regulations of various federal, state, and local governing authorities. for our homes to qualify for fha or va mortgages, we must satisfy valuation standards and site, material, and construction requirements of those agencies. our compliance with federal, state, and local laws relating to protection of the environment has had, to date, no material effect upon capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position. more stringent requirements could be imposed in the future on homebuilders and developers, thereby increasing the cost of compliance. new housing developments may be subject to various assessments for schools, parks, streets, and other public improvements. these can cause an increase in the effective prices for our homes. in addition, increases in property tax rates by local governmental authorities, as recently experienced in response to reduced federal and state funding, can adversely affect the ability of potential customers to obtain financing or their desire to purchase new homes. we also are subject to a variety of local, state, and federal laws and regulations concerning protection of health, safety, and the environment. the impact of environmental laws varies depending upon the prior uses of the building site or adjoining properties and may be greater in areas with less supply where undeveloped land or desirable alternatives are less available. these matters may result in delays, may cause us to incur substantial compliance, remediation and other costs, and can prohibit or severely restrict development and homebuilding activity in environmentally sensitive regions or areas. our financial services operations are also subject to numerous federal, state, and local laws and regulations. these include eligibility requirements for participation in federal loan programs and compliance with consumer lending and similar requirements such as disclosure requirements, prohibitions against discrimination, and real estate settlement procedures. they may also subject our operations to examination by applicable agencies. these may limit our ability to provide mortgage financing or title services to potential purchasers of our homes. we are subject to claims related to mortgage loans we sold in the secondary mortgage market that may be significant. our mortgage operations have made certain representations and warranties related to mortgage loans sold in the secondary mortgage market that the loans sold meet certain requirements, including representations as to underwriting standards, the type of collateral, the existence of primary mortgage insurance and the validity of certain borrower representations in connection with the loan. our mortgage operations may be, and have been, required to repurchase loans and/or indemnify the investors that purchased the loans for losses due to material breaches of these representations and warranties. in addition, we entered into an agreement in conjunction with the wind down of centex mortgage operations, which originated its last loan in december 2009, that provides a guaranty for one major investor in loans originated by centex mortgage operations. this guaranty provides that we will honor the potential repurchase obligations of centex mortgage operations related to breaches of similar representations in the origination of a certain pool of loans. the repurchase liability we recorded is estimated based on several factors, including the level of current and estimated probable future repurchase demands made by investors, our ability to cure the defects identified in the repurchase demands, and the severity of loss upon repurchase. while we believe that our current repurchase liability reserves are adequate, the factors referred to above, upon which we estimate our repurchase liability, are subject to change in light of market developments, the economic environment and other circumstances, some of which are beyond our control. accordingly, there can be no assurance that such reserves will not need to be increased in the future. homebuilding is subject to warranty and other claims in the ordinary course of business that can be significant. as a homebuilder, we are subject to home warranty, construction defect, and other claims arising in the ordinary course of business. we record warranty and other reserves for the homes we sell based on historical experience in our markets and our judgment of the qualitative risks associated with the types of homes built. we have, and require the majority of our subcontractors to have, general liability, property, errors and omissions, workers compensation, and other business insurance. these insurance policies protect us against a portion of our risk of loss from claims, subject to certain self-insured per occurrence and aggregate retentions, deductibles, and available policy limits. through our 13 table of contents homebuilding is subject to warranty and other claims in the ordinary course of business that can be significant. (continued) captive insurance subsidiaries, we reserve for costs to cover our self-insured and deductible amounts under these policies and for any costs of claims and lawsuits, based on an analysis of our historical claims, which includes an estimate of claims incurred but not yet reported. because of the uncertainties inherent in these matters, we cannot provide assurance that our insurance coverage, our subcontractor arrangements, and our reserves will be adequate to address all our warranty and construction defect claims in the future. contractual indemnities can be difficult to enforce, we may be responsible for applicable self-insured retentions, and some types of claims may not be covered by insurance or may exceed applicable coverage limits. additionally, the coverage offered by and the availability of general liability insurance for construction defects are currently costly and limited. we have responded to the recent increases in insurance costs and coverage limitations by increasing our self-insured retentions and claim reserves. there can be no assurance that coverage will not be further restricted and become more costly. additionally, we are exposed to counterparty default risk related to our and our subcontractors insurance carriers. we seek to manage such risk by maintaining our policies with highly-rated carriers. natural disasters and severe weather conditions could delay deliveries, increase costs, and decrease demand for new homes in affected areas. our homebuilding operations are located in many areas that are subject to natural disasters and severe weather. the occurrence of natural disasters or severe weather conditions can delay new home deliveries, increase costs by damaging inventories, reduce the availability of materials, and negatively impact the demand for new homes in affected areas. furthermore, if our insurance does not fully cover business interruptions or losses resulting from these events, our earnings, liquidity, or capital resources could be adversely affected. inflation may result in increased costs that we may not be able to recoup if demand declines. inflation can have a long-term impact on us because increasing costs of land, materials, and labor may require us to increase the sales prices of homes in order to maintain satisfactory margins. in addition, inflation is often accompanied by higher interest rates, which have a negative impact on housing demand, in which case we may not be able to raise home prices sufficiently to keep up with the rate of inflation and our margins could decrease. future terrorist attacks against the united states or increased domestic and international instability could have an adverse effect on our operations. a future terrorist attack against the united states could cause a sharp decrease in the number of new contracts signed for homes and an increase in the cancellation of existing contracts. accordingly, adverse developments in the war on terrorism, future terrorist attacks against the united states, or increased domestic and international instability could adversely affect our business. 14 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are subject to interest rate risk on our rate-sensitive financing to the extent long-term rates decline. the following tables set forth, as of december 31, 2010 and 2009, our rate-sensitive financing obligations, principal cash flows by scheduled maturity, weighted-average interest rates, and estimated fair value ($000 omitted). as of december 31, 2010 for the years ending december 31, 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 thereafter total fair value rate-sensitive liabilities: fixed interest rate debt: senior notes $ 13,902 $ 103,699 $ 227,911 $ 654,590 $ 669,491 $ 1,780,000 $ 3,449,593 $ 3,227,404 average interest rate 8.13 % 5.45 % 5.43 % 5.47 % 5.23 % 6.79 % 6.11 % non-recourse collateralized financing $ 560 $ - $ - $ - $ - $ - $ 560 $ 560 average interest rate 6.50 % 0.00 % 0.00 % 0.00 % 0.00 % 0.00 % 0.00 % as of december 31, 2009 for the years ending december 31, 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 thereafter total fair value rate-sensitive liabilities: fixed interest rate debt: senior notes $ 47,427 $ 231,683 $ 236,961 $ 495,131 $ 813,996 $ 2,522,865 $ 4,348,063 $ 4,087,269 average interest rate 4.55 % 7.89 % 6.40 % 5.64 % 5.44 % 6.33 % 6.15 % non-recourse collateralized financing $ 835 $ 839 $ 105 $ 42 $ 47 $ 136 $ 2,004 $ 2,004 average interest rate 7.35 % 7.36 % 8.25 % 10.00 % 10.00 % 10.00 % 7.70 % pulte mortgage, operating as a mortgage banker, is also subject to interest rate risk. interest rate risk begins when we commit to lend money to a customer at agreed-upon terms (i.e., commit to lend at a certain interest rate for a certain period of time). the interest rate risk continues through the loan closing and until the loan is sold to an investor. during 2010 and 2009, this period of interest rate exposure averaged approximately 60 days. in periods of rising interest rates, the length of exposure will generally increase due to customers locking in an interest rate sooner as opposed to letting the interest rate float. we minimize interest rate risk by hedging our loan commitments and closed loans through derivative financial instruments. these financial instruments include cash forward placement contracts on mortgage-backed securities, whole loan investor commitments, options on treasury future contracts, and options on cash forward placement contracts on mortgage-backed securities. we do not use any derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. hypothetical changes in the fair values of our financial instruments arising from immediate parallel shifts in long-term mortgage rates of plus 50, 100, and 150 basis points would not be material to our financial results. at december 31, 2010, our aggregate net investment exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk includes our remaining non-operating investments in mexico, which approximated $0.2 million. 44 table of contents special notes concerning forward-looking statements as a cautionary note, except for the historical information contained herein, certain matters discussed in item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, and item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk , are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. such forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause our actual results, performance, prospects or opportunities, as well as those of the markets we serve or intend to serve, to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, these statements. you can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate to matters of a strictly factual or historical nature and generally discuss or relate to forecasts, estimates or other expectations regarding future events. generally, the words believe, expect, intend, estimate, anticipate, project, may, can, could, might, will and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, including statements related to expected operating and performing results, planned transactions, planned objectives of management, future developments or conditions in the industries in which we participate and other trends, developments and uncertainties that may affect our business in the future. such risks, uncertainties and other factors include, among other things: interest rate changes and the availability of mortgage financing; continued volatility in, and potential deterioration of, the debt and equity markets; competition within industries in which pultegroup operates; the availability and cost of land and other raw materials used by pultegroup in its homebuilding operations; the availability and cost of insurance covering risks associated with pultegroup businesses; shortages and the cost of labor; weather related slowdowns; slow growth initiatives and/or local building moratoria; governmental regulation directed at or affecting the housing market, the homebuilding industry or construction activities; uncertainty in the mortgage lending industry, including revisions to underwriting standards and repurchase requirements associated with the sale of mortgage loans; the interpretation of or changes to tax, labor and environmental laws; economic changes nationally or in pultegroup local markets, including inflation, deflation, changes in consumer confidence and preferences and the state of the market for homes in general; legal or regulatory proceedings or claims; required accounting changes; terrorist acts and other acts of war; and other factors of national, regional and global scale, including those of a political, economic, business and competitive nature. see item 1a risk factors for a further discussion of these and other risks and uncertainties applicable to pultegroup business. pultegroup undertakes no duty to update any forward-looking statement whether as a result of new information, future events or changes in pultegroup expectations. 45 table of contents