risk factors 29 risk factors you should carefully consider the following risks. these risks are not exclusive, and additional risks to which we are subject include, but are not limited to, the factors mentioned under forward-looking statements above and the risks of our businesses described elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k. many of these risks are interrelated and could occur under similar business and economic conditions, and the occurrence of certain of them may in turn cause the emergence or exacerbate the effect of others. such a combination could materially increase the severity of the impact of these risks on our businesses, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. risks relating to economic, market and political conditions market fluctuations and general economic, market and political conditions may adversely affect our business and profitability. our businesses and our results of operations may be materially adversely affected by conditions in the global financial markets and by economic conditions generally. even under relatively favorable market conditions, our insurance, annuity and investment products, as well as our investment returns and our access to and cost of financing, are sensitive to fixed income, equity, real estate and other market fluctuations and general economic, market and political conditions. these fluctuations and conditions could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and liquidity, including in the following respects: the profitability of many of our insurance and annuity products depends in part on the value of the separate accounts supporting these products, which can fluctuate substantially depending on the foregoing conditions. market conditions resulting in reductions in the value of assets we manage or lower transaction volume have an adverse effect on the revenues and profitability of our asset management business, which depends on fees related primarily to the value of assets under management or transaction volume, and could decrease the value of our strategic investments. a change in market conditions, such as high inflation and high interest rates, could cause a change in consumer sentiment and behavior adversely affecting sales and persistency of our savings and protection products. conversely, low inflation and low interest rates could cause persistency of these products to vary from that anticipated and adversely affect profitability (as further described below). similarly, changing economic conditions and unfavorable public perception of financial institutions can influence customer behavior, including increasing claims or surrenders in certain product lines. sales of our investment-based and asset management products and services may decline, and lapses and surrenders of certain insurance products and withdrawals of assets from investment products may increase if a market downturn, increased market volatility or other market conditions result in customers becoming dissatisfied with their investments or products. 29 table of contents a market decline could further result in guaranteed minimum benefits contained in many of our variable annuity products being higher than current account values or our pricing assumptions would support, requiring us to materially increase reserves for such products, and may cause customers to retain contracts in force in order to benefit from the guarantees, thereby increasing their cost to us. any increased cost may or may not be offset by the favorable impact of greater persistency from prolonged fee streams. our valuation of the liabilities for the minimum benefits contained in many of our variable annuity products requires us to consider the market perception of our risk of non-performance, and a decrease in our own credit spreads resulting from ratings upgrades or other events or market conditions could cause the recorded value of these liabilities to increase, which in turn could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. market conditions determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection we purchase. accordingly, we may be forced to incur additional expenses for reinsurance or may not be able to obtain sufficient reinsurance on acceptable terms which could adversely affect the profitability of future business or our willingness to write future business. derivative instruments we hold to hedge and manage foreign exchange risk, interest rate and equity risks associated with our products and businesses, and other risks might not perform as intended or expected resulting in higher realized losses and unforeseen stresses on liquidity. market conditions can limit availability of hedging instruments, require us to post additional collateral, and also further increase the cost of executing product related hedges and such costs may not be recovered in the pricing of the underlying products being hedged. our derivative-based hedging strategies also rely on the performance of counterparties to such derivatives. these counterparties may fail to perform for various reasons resulting in losses on uncollateralized positions. we have significant investment and derivative portfolios, including but not limited to corporate and asset-backed securities, foreign government securities (primarily those of the japanese government), equities and commercial real estate. economic conditions as well as adverse capital market conditions, including a lack of buyers in the marketplace, volatility, credit spread changes, benchmark interest rate changes, changes in foreign currency exchange rates and declines in value of underlying collateral may impact the credit quality, liquidity and value of our investments and derivatives, potentially resulting in higher capital charges and unrealized or realized losses. valuations may include assumptions or estimates that may have significant period to period changes which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. opportunities for investment of available funds at appropriate returns may be limited, including due to the current low interest rate environment, a diminished securitization market or other factors, with possible negative impacts on our overall results. limited opportunities for attractive investments may lead to holding cash for long periods of time and increased use of derivatives for duration management and other portfolio management purposes. the increased use of derivatives may increase the volatility of our u.s. gaap results and our statutory capital. regardless of market conditions, certain investments we hold, including private bonds, commercial mortgages and alternative asset classes (such as private equity, hedge funds and real estate) are relatively illiquid. if we needed to sell these investments, we may have difficulty doing so in a timely manner at a price that we could otherwise realize. certain features of our products and components of investment strategies depend on active and liquid markets, and, if market liquidity is strained or the capacity of the financial markets to absorb our transactions is inadequate, these products may not perform as intended. fluctuations in our operating results as well as realized gains and losses on our investment and derivative portfolios may impact the company's tax profile and its ability to optimally utilize tax attributes. disruptions in individual market sectors within our investment portfolio could result in significant realized and unrealized losses. for example, during 2015 the energy sector and extractive enterprises, which are historically cyclical, experienced significant drops in prices, resulting in increased impairments and unrealized losses in these parts of our investment portfolio. if energy and other commodity prices remain low for an extended period, we could experience additional losses. our investments, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by developments in the global economy, in the u.s. economy (including as a result of actions by the federal reserve with respect to monetary policy, and adverse political developments), and in the japanese economy (including due to the effects of inflation or deflation, interest rate volatility, changes in the japan sovereign credit rating, and material changes in the value of the japanese yen relative to the u.s. dollar). global, u.s. or japanese economic activity and financial markets may in turn be negatively affected by adverse developments or conditions in specific geographical regions. 30 table of contents interest rate fluctuations or prolonged periods of low interest rates could adversely affect our businesses and profitability and require us to increase reserves or statutory capital and subject us to additional collateral posting requirements. our insurance and annuity products and certain of our investment products, and our investment returns, are sensitive to interest rate fluctuations, and changes in interest rates could adversely affect our investment returns and results of operations, including in the following respects: some of our products expose us to the risk that changes in interest rates will reduce the spread between the amounts that we are required to pay under the contracts and the rate of return we are able to earn on our general account investments supporting the contracts. when interest rates decline or remain low, as they have in recent years, we have to reinvest in lower-yielding instruments, potentially reducing net investment income. since many of our policies and contracts have guaranteed minimum interest crediting rates or limit the resetting of interest rates, the spreads could decrease and potentially become negative, or go further negative. when interest rates rise, we may not be able to replace the assets in our general account as quickly with the higher-yielding assets needed to fund the higher crediting rates necessary to keep these products and contracts competitive. in addition, rising interest rates could cause a decline in the market value of fixed income assets the company manages which in turn could result in lower asset management fees earned. changes in interest rates can also result in potential losses in our investment activities in which we borrow funds and purchase investments to earn additional spread income on the borrowed funds. when interest rates rise, policy loans and surrenders and withdrawals of life insurance policies and annuity contracts may increase as policyholders seek to buy products with perceived higher returns, requiring us to sell investment assets potentially resulting in realized investment losses, or requiring us to accelerate the amortization of deferred acquisition costs ( dac ), deferred sales inducements ( dsi ) or value of business acquired ( voba ). in addition, increasing interest rates could cause capital strain due to lower solvency margin levels of our japanese insurance subsidiaries because the carrying value of bonds classified as available-for-sale would decline while the carrying value of liabilities would generally remain unchanged. also, an increase in interest rates accompanied by unexpected extensions of certain lower-yielding investments could reduce our profitability. changes in interest rates could subject us to increased collateral posting requirements related to hedging activities associated with some of our products. changes in interest rates could require us to contribute capital to subsidiaries to support our annuities business, which occurred during 2015. changes in interest rates coupled with greater than expected client withdrawals for certain products can result in increased costs associated with our guarantees. changes in interest rates could increase our costs of financing. our mitigation efforts with respect to interest rate risk are primarily focused on maintaining an investment portfolio with diversified maturities that has a key rate duration profile that is approximately equal to the key rate duration profile of our estimated liability cash flow profile; however, this estimate of the liability cash flow profile is complex and could turn out to be inaccurate, especially when markets are volatile. in addition, there are practical and capital market limitations on our ability to accomplish this matching. due to these and other factors we may need to liquidate investments prior to maturity at a loss in order to satisfy liabilities or be forced to reinvest funds in a lower rate environment. although we take measures to manage the economic risks of investing in a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to effectively mitigate, and we may sometimes choose based on economic considerations and other factors not to fully mitigate, the interest rate risk of our assets relative to our liabilities. for certain of our products, a delay between the time we make changes in interest rate and other assumptions used for product pricing and the time we are able to reflect these assumptions in products available-for-sale could negatively impact the long-term profitability of products sold during the intervening period. recent periods have been characterized by low interest rates. a prolonged period during which interest rates remain at levels lower than those anticipated in our pricing may result in greater costs associated with certain of our product features which guarantee death benefits or income streams for stated periods or for life; higher costs for derivative instruments used to hedge certain of our product risks; or shortfalls in investment income on assets supporting policy obligations, each of which may require us to record charges to increase reserves. in addition to compressing spreads and reducing net investment income, such an environment may cause policies to remain in force for longer periods than we anticipated in our pricing, potentially resulting in greater claims costs than we expected and resulting in lower overall returns on business in force. reflecting these impacts in recoverability and loss recognition testing under u.s. gaap may require us to accelerate the amortization of dac, dsi or voba as noted above, as well as to increase required reserves for future policyholder benefits. in addition, certain statutory capital and reserve requirements are based on formulas or models that consider interest rates, and a period of declining or low interest rates may increase the statutory capital we are required to hold as well as the amount of assets we must maintain to support statutory reserves. 31 table of contents adverse capital market conditions could significantly affect our ability to meet liquidity needs, our access to capital and our cost of capital, including capital that may be required by our subsidiaries. under such conditions, we may seek additional debt or equity capital but may be unable to obtain it. adverse capital market conditions could affect the availability and cost of borrowed funds and could impact our ability to refinance existing borrowings, thereby ultimately impacting our profitability and ability to support or grow our businesses. we need liquidity to pay our operating expenses, interest and maturities on our debt and dividends on our capital stock. during times of market stress, our internal sources of liquidity may prove to be insufficient and some of our alternative sources of liquidity, such as commercial paper issuance, securities lending and repurchase arrangements and other forms of borrowings in the capital markets, may be unavailable to us. disruptions, uncertainty and volatility in the financial markets may force us to delay raising capital, issue shorter tenor securities than would be optimal, bear an unattractive cost of capital or be unable to raise capital at any price, which could decrease our profitability and significantly reduce our financial flexibility. we may seek additional debt or equity financing to satisfy our needs; however, the availability of additional financing depends on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the availability of credit, and our credit ratings and credit capacity. we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. actions we might take to access financing may in turn cause rating agencies to reevaluate our ratings. further, any future equity offerings would dilute the ownership interest of existing shareholders. disruptions in the capital markets could adversely affect our ability to access sources of liquidity, as well as threaten to reduce our capital below a level that is consistent with our existing ratings objectives. therefore, we may need to take actions, which may include but are not limited to: (1) access contingent sources of capital and liquidity available through our capital protection framework; (2) further access other external sources of capital, including the debt or equity markets; (3) reduce or eliminate future share repurchases or shareholder dividends; (4) undertake additional capital management activities, including reinsurance transactions; (5) limit or curtail sales of certain products and/or restructure existing products; (6) undertake further asset sales or internal asset transfers; (7) seek temporary or permanent changes to regulatory rules; and (8) maintain greater levels of cash balances or for longer periods thereby reducing investment returns. certain of these actions may require regulatory approval and/or agreement of counterparties which are outside of our control or have economic costs associated with them. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect our profitability, financial condition and cash flows, as well as increase the volatility of our results of operations under u.s. gaap. as a u.s.-based company with significant business operations outside the u.s., particularly in japan, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange risks that could reduce the u.s. dollar-equivalent earnings and equity of these operations. we enter into derivative contracts in order to hedge the future income of certain of our international subsidiaries. further, our japanese subsidiaries hold u.s. dollar-denominated assets as a way for us to mitigate the effect of fluctuations in the yen exchange rate on our u.s. dollar-equivalent equity in these subsidiaries. we seek to mitigate volatility in the local solvency margins of our japanese subsidiaries due to holding these u.s. dollar-denominated investments by entering into inter-company currency derivatives. notwithstanding this strategy, in recent years the value of the yen has declined against the u.s. dollar, and our results have reflected the impact of translating yen-denominated earnings into u.s. dollars at increasingly unfavorable exchange rates. as a result of these unfavorable exchange rate movements, the u.s. dollar equivalent of our yen earnings has declined and will continue to decline in 2016. conversely, a significant strengthening of the yen could adversely impact the value of our hedges and u.s. dollar-denominated investments held in our japanese subsidiaries and could result in additional liquidity or capital needs for our international insurance operations. further currency fluctuations could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows or financial condition as a result of these derivative positions or due to foreign income or equity investments that are not hedged. we hold investments denominated in foreign currencies in the general account of our domestic insurance subsidiaries. we generally seek to hedge this foreign currency exposure but there is no assurance that we will fully hedge this exposure or that such hedges will be effective. the value and liquidity of our foreign currency investments could be adversely affected by local market, economic and financial conditions. for example, our investments denominated in euro could be adversely affected by unfavorable economic conditions in europe, including due to potential changes in the euro or to the structure or membership of the european monetary union. 32 table of contents risks relating to estimates, assumptions and valuations our profitability may decline if mortality experience, morbidity experience, persistency experience or utilization experience differ significantly from our pricing expectations. we set prices for many of our insurance and annuity products based upon expected claims and payment patterns, using assumptions for mortality rates (the likelihood of death or the likelihood of survival), morbidity rates (the likelihood of sickness or disability), and improvement trends in mortality and morbidity of our policyholders. in addition to the potential effect of natural or man-made disasters, significant changes in mortality or morbidity could emerge gradually over time, due to changes in the natural environment, the health habits of the insured population, treatment patterns and technologies for disease or disability, the economic environment, or other factors. in addition, technological and medical advances may affect how consumers investigate and purchase products, and in the future consumers may be informed by confidential genetic information or mortality projections that are not available to us. pricing of our insurance and deferred annuity products are also based in part upon expected persistency of these products, which is the probability that a policy or contract will remain in force from one period to the next. persistency within our annuities business may be significantly impacted by the value of guaranteed minimum benefits contained in many of our variable annuity products being higher than current account values in light of poor equity market performance or extended periods of low interest rates as well as other factors. persistency could be adversely affected generally by developments affecting client perception of us, including perceptions arising from adverse publicity. many of our products also provide our customers with wide flexibility with respect to the amount and timing of premium deposits and the amount and timing of withdrawals from the policy's value. results may vary based on differences between actual and expected premium deposits and withdrawals for these products, especially if these product features are relatively new to the marketplace. the pricing of certain of our variable annuity products that contain certain living benefit guarantees is also based on assumptions about utilization rates, or the percentage of contracts that will utilize the benefit during the contract duration, including the timing of the first lifetime income withdrawal. results may vary based on differences between actual and expected benefit utilization. the development of a secondary market for life insurance, including life settlements or viaticals and investor owned life insurance, and third-party investor strategies in the annuities business, could adversely affect the profitability of existing business and our pricing assumptions for new business. significant deviations in actual experience from our pricing assumptions could have an adverse effect on the profitability of our products. although some of our products permit us to increase premiums or adjust other charges and credits during the life of the policy or contract, the adjustments permitted under the terms of the policies or contracts may not be sufficient to maintain profitability or may cause the policies or contracts to lapse. for our long-term care insurance products, our assumptions for reserves for future policy benefits have factored in an estimate of the timing and amount of anticipated and yet-to-be-filed premium increases which will require state approval. our actual experience obtaining pricing increases could be materially different than what we have assumed, resulting in further policy liability increases which could be material. many of our products do not permit us to increase premiums or adjust other charges and credits or limit those adjustments during the life of the policy or contract. even if permitted under the policy or contract, we may not be able or willing to raise premiums or adjust other charges sufficiently, or at all, for regulatory or competitive reasons. if our reserves for future policyholder benefits and expenses are inadequate, we may be required to increase our reserves, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we establish reserves in accordance with u.s. gaap for future policyholder benefits and expenses. while these reserves generally exceed our best estimate of the liability for future benefits and expenses, if we conclude based on updated assumptions that our reserves, together with future premiums, are insufficient to cover future policy benefits and expenses, including unamortized dac, dsi or voba, we would need to accelerate the amortization of these dac, dsi or voba balances and then increase our reserves and incur income statement charges, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. the determination of our best estimate of the liability is based on data and models that include many assumptions and projections which are inherently uncertain and involve the exercise of significant judgment, including the levels and timing of receipt or payment of premiums, benefits, expenses, interest credits and investment results (including equity market returns), which depend on actual retirement, mortality, morbidity and persistency experience. we cannot determine with precision the ultimate amounts that we will pay for, or the timing of payment of, actual benefits and expenses or whether the assets supporting our policy liabilities, together with future premiums, will be sufficient for payment of benefits and expenses. if we conclude that our reserves, together with future premiums, are insufficient to cover future policy benefits and expenses, we may seek to increase premiums where we are able to do so. updated assumptions may also require us to increase u.s. gaap reserves for the guarantees in certain long-duration contracts. 33 table of contents for certain of our products, market performance and interest rates (as well as the regulatory environment, as discussed further below) impact the level of statutory reserves and statutory capital we are required to hold, and may have an adverse effect on returns on capital associated with these products. our ability to efficiently manage capital and economic reserve levels may be impacted, thereby impacting profitability and returns on capital. we may be required to accelerate the amortization of dac, dsi or voba, or recognize impairment in the value of certain investments, or be required to establish a valuation allowance against deferred income tax assets, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. dac represents the costs that vary with and are directly related to the acquisition of new and renewal insurance and investment contracts, and we amortize these costs over the expected lives of the contracts. dsi represents amounts that are credited to a policyholder's account balance as an inducement to purchase the contract, and we amortize these costs over the expected lives of the contracts. voba is an intangible asset which represents an adjustment to the stated value of acquired inforce insurance contract liabilities to present them at fair value, determined as of the acquisition date. management, on an ongoing basis, tests the dac, dsi and voba recorded on our balance sheet to determine if these amounts are recoverable under current assumptions. in addition, we regularly review the estimates and assumptions underlying dac, dsi and voba for those products for which we amortize dac, dsi and voba in proportion to gross profits or gross margins. given changes in facts and circumstances, these tests and reviews could lead to reductions in dac, dsi and/or voba that could have an adverse effect on the results of our operations and our financial condition. among other things, significant or sustained equity market declines as well as investment losses could result in acceleration of amortization of the dac, dsi and voba related to variable annuity and variable universal life contracts, resulting in a charge to income. as discussed earlier, the amortization of dac, dsi and voba are also sensitive to changes in interest rates. we have operating equity method investments within our international insurance and asset management segments and corporate and other operations. declines in the fair value of these investments may require that we review the remaining carrying value of these investments for potential impairment, and such review could result in impairments and charges to income. deferred income tax represents the tax effect of the differences between the book and tax basis of assets and liabilities. deferred tax assets are assessed periodically by management to determine if they are realizable. factors in management's determination include the performance of the business including the geographic and legal entity source of our income, the ability to generate capital gains from a variety of sources, and tax planning strategies. if based on available information, it is more likely than not that the deferred income tax asset will not be realized then a valuation allowance must be established with a corresponding charge to net income. such charges could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. our valuation of fixed maturity, equity and trading securities may include methodologies, estimations and assumptions that are subject to differing interpretations and could result in changes to investment valuations that may materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. during periods of market disruption, it may be difficult to value certain of our investment securities if trading becomes less frequent or market data becomes less observable. there may be cases where certain assets in normally active markets with significant observable data become inactive with insufficient observable data due to the current financial environment or market conditions. in addition, the fair value of certain securities may be based on one or more significant unobservable inputs even in ordinary market conditions. as a result, valuations may include inputs and assumptions that require greater estimation and judgment as well as valuation methods which are more complex. these values may not be ultimately realizable in a market transaction, and such values may change very rapidly as market conditions change and valuation assumptions are modified. decreases in value may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. the decision on whether to record an other-than-temporary impairment or write-down is determined in part by management's assessment of the financial condition and prospects of a particular issuer, projections of future cash flows and recoverability of the particular security. management's conclusions on such assessments are highly judgmental and include assumptions and projections of future cash flows which may ultimately prove to be incorrect as assumptions, facts and circumstances change. changes in our discount rate, expected rate of return, life expectancy, health care cost and expected compensation increase assumptions for our pension and other postretirement benefit plans may result in increased expenses and reduce our profitability. we determine our pension and other postretirement benefit plan costs based on assumed discount rates, expected rates of return on plan assets, life expectancy of plan participants and expected increases in compensation levels and trends in health care costs. changes in these assumptions may result in increased expenses and reduce our profitability. 34 table of contents credit and counterparty risks an inability to access our credit facility could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we maintain a committed unsecured revolving credit facility. we rely on this credit facility as a potential source of liquidity which could be critical in enabling us to meet our obligations as they come due, particularly during periods when alternative sources of liquidity are limited. our ability to borrow under this facility is conditioned on our satisfaction of covenants and other requirements, such as our maintenance of a prescribed minimum level of consolidated net worth calculated in accordance with the agreement. our failure to satisfy this and other requirements would restrict our access to the facility when needed and, consequently, could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. a downgrade or potential downgrade in our financial strength or credit ratings could limit our ability to market products, increase policy surrenders and withdrawals, require us to post collateral, increase our borrowing costs and/or hurt our relationships with creditors, distributors, reinsurers or trading counterparties and restrict our access to alternative sources of liquidity. a downgrade in our financial strength or credit ratings could potentially, among other things, limit our ability to market products, reduce our competitiveness, increase the number or value of policy surrenders and withdrawals, increase our borrowing costs and potentially make it more difficult to borrow funds, adversely affect the availability of financial guarantees, such as letters of credit, cause additional collateral requirements or other required payments under certain agreements, allow counterparties to terminate derivative agreements, and/or hurt our relationships with creditors, distributors, reinsurers or trading counterparties thereby potentially negatively affecting our profitability, liquidity and/or capital. a downgrade in the credit or financial strength ratings of prudential financial or its rated subsidiaries could result in additional collateral requirements or other required payments under certain agreements, including derivative agreements, which are eligible to be satisfied in cash or by posting securities held by the subsidiaries subject to the agreements. in addition, a ratings downgrade by a.m. best to a- for our domestic life insurance companies would require prudential insurance to post a letter of credit in the amount of approximately $1.5 billion, based on the level of statutory reserves related to the variable annuity business acquired from allstate. prudential insurance is a member of the fhlbny. membership allows prudential insurance access to fhlbny's financial services, including the ability to obtain collateralized loans and to issue collateralized funding agreements that can be used as an alternative source of liquidity. under fhlbny guidelines, if prudential insurance's financial strength ratings decline below a/a2/a stable by standard &amp; poor's rating services, or s&amp;p, moody's investors service, inc., or moody's, and fitch ratings ltd., or fitch, respectively, and the fhlbny does not receive written assurances from the new jersey department of banking and insurance regarding prudential insurance's solvency, new borrowings from the fhlbny would be limited to a term of 90 days or less. although prudential insurance's ratings are currently at or above the required minimum levels, there can be no assurance that the ratings will remain at these levels in the future. we cannot predict what additional actions rating agencies may take, or what actions we may take in response to the actions of rating agencies, which could adversely affect our business. our ratings could be downgraded at any time and without advance notice by any rating agency. in addition, a sovereign downgrade could result in a downgrade of our subsidiaries operating in that jurisdiction, and ultimately of prudential financial and our other subsidiaries. for example, in september 2015, s&amp;p downgraded japan's sovereign rating to a+ with a 'stable' outlook citing uncertainties around the strength of economic growth and weak fiscal positions. as a result, s&amp;p subsequently lowered the ratings of a number of institutions in japan, including our japanese insurance subsidiaries. it is possible that japan's sovereign rating could be subject to further downgrades, which would result in further downgrades of our insurance subsidiaries in japan. given the importance of our operations in japan to our overall results, such downgrades could lead to a downgrade of prudential financial and our domestic insurance companies. losses due to defaults by others, including issuers of investment securities, reinsurers and derivatives counterparties, insolvencies of insurers in jurisdictions where we write business and other factors could adversely affect the value of our investments, the realization of amounts contractually owed to us, result in assessments or additional statutory capital requirements or reduce our profitability or sources of liquidity. issuers and borrowers whose securities or loans we hold, customers, vendors, trading counterparties, counterparties under swaps and other derivative contracts, reinsurers, clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses and other financial intermediaries and guarantors, including bond insurers, may default on their obligations to us or be unable to perform service functions that are significant to our business due to bankruptcy, insolvency, lack of liquidity, adverse economic conditions, operational failure, fraud or other reasons. such defaults could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 35 table of contents we use derivative instruments to hedge various risks, including certain guaranteed minimum benefits contained in many of our variable annuity products. we enter into a variety of derivative instruments, including options, forwards, interest rate, credit default and currency swaps with a number of counterparties. we also enter into reinsurance arrangements as a risk mitigation strategy for our insurance and annuity products. amounts that we expect to collect under current and future derivatives or reinsurance contracts are subject to counterparty risk. our obligations under our products are not changed by our hedging activities or reinsurance arrangements and we are liable for our obligations even if our derivative counterparties or reinsurers do not pay us. such defaults could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, ratings downgrades or financial difficulties of derivative counterparties or reinsurers may require us to utilize additional capital with respect to the impacted businesses. under state insurance guaranty association laws and similar laws in international jurisdictions, we are subject to assessments, based on the share of business we write in the relevant jurisdiction, for certain obligations of insolvent insurance companies to policyholders and claimants. our investment portfolio is subject to risks that could diminish the value of our invested assets and the amount of our investment income, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. we record unrealized gains or losses on securities classified as available-for-sale in other comprehensive income (loss), and in turn recognize gains or losses in earnings when the gain or loss is realized upon the sale of the security or in the event that the decline in estimated fair value is determined to be other-than-temporary. the occurrence of a major economic downturn, acts of corporate malfeasance, widening credit spreads, or other events that adversely affect the issuers or guarantors of securities or the underlying collateral of structured securities could cause (i) the market price of fixed maturity securities in our investment portfolio to decline, which could cause us to record gross unrealized losses, (ii) earnings on those securities to decline, which could result in lower earnings, and (iii) ultimately defaults, which could result in a charge to earnings. a ratings downgrade affecting issuers or guarantors of particular securities, or similar trends that could worsen the credit quality of our investments could also have a similar effect. in addition, a ratings downgrade affecting a security we hold could indicate the credit quality of that security has deteriorated and could increase the capital we must hold to maintain our rbc and smr levels. our non-coupon investment portfolio is subject to additional risks. we invest a portion of our investments in hedge funds and private equity funds. the amount and timing of net investment income from such funds tends to be uneven as a result of the performance of the underlying investments. the timing of distributions from such funds, which depends on particular events relating to the underlying investments, as well as the funds' schedules for making distributions and their needs for cash, can be difficult to predict. as a result, the amount of net investment income from these investments can vary substantially from quarter to quarter. significant volatility could adversely impact returns and net investment income on these investments. in addition, the estimated fair value of such investments may be impacted by downturns or volatility in equity markets. in our real estate portfolio, we are subject to declining prices or cash flows as a result of changes in the supply and demand of leasable space, creditworthiness of tenants and partners and other factors. 36 table of contents certain product related risks guarantees within certain of our products that protect policyholders may decrease our earnings or increase the volatility of our results of operations or financial position under u.s. gaap if our hedging or risk management strategies prove ineffective or insufficient. certain of our products, particularly our variable annuity products, include guarantees of minimum surrender values or income streams for stated periods or for life, which may be in excess of account values. downturns in equity markets, increased equity volatility, or (as discussed above) reduced interest rates could result in an increase in the valuation of liabilities associated with such guarantees, resulting in increases in reserves and reductions in net income. we use a variety of hedging and risk management strategies, including product features and external reinsurance, to mitigate these risks in part and we may periodically change our strategies over time. these strategies may, however, not be fully effective. in addition, we may be unable or may choose not to fully hedge these risks. hedging instruments may not effectively offset the costs of guarantees or may otherwise be insufficient in relation to our obligations. hedging instruments also may not change in value correspondingly with associated liabilities due to equity market or interest rate conditions or other reasons. we sometimes choose to hedge these risks on a basis that does not correspond to their anticipated or actual impact upon our results of operations or financial position under u.s. gaap. changes from period to period in the valuation of these policy benefits, and in the amount of our obligations effectively hedged, will result in volatility in our results of operations and financial position under u.s. gaap and the statutory capital levels of our insurance subsidiaries. estimates and assumptions we make in connection with hedging activities may fail to reflect or correspond to our actual long-term exposure in respect of our guarantees. further, the risk of increases in the costs of our guarantees not covered by our hedging and other capital and risk management strategies may become more significant due to changes in policyholder behavior driven by market conditions or other factors. the above factors, individually or collectively, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. in addition, the naic has outlined a framework for changing the laws around the use of captive reinsurance companies to reinsure variable annuities, which may ultimately impact how we hedge our variable annuity risks. see regulatory and legal risks our businesses are heavily regulated and changes in regulation may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition below. we may not be able to mitigate the reserve strain associated with regulation xxx and guideline axxx, potentially resulting in a negative impact on our capital position or in a need to increase prices and/or reduce sales of term or universal life products. the states of domicile of our domestic insurance subsidiaries have in place a regulation entitled valuation of life insurance policies, commonly known as regulation xxx, and a supporting guideline entitled the application of the valuation of life insurance policies, commonly known as guideline axxx. the regulation and supporting guideline require insurers to establish statutory reserves for term and universal life insurance policies with long-term premium guarantees at a level that exceeds what our actuarial assumptions for this business would otherwise require. we have typically financed the portion of the statutory reserves for this business that we consider to be non-economic through the use of captive reinsurance companies. as we continue to underwrite term and universal life business, we expect to have additional financing needs for these reserves. however, if we are unsuccessful in obtaining additional financing as a result of market conditions, regulatory changes or otherwise, this could require us to increase prices and or/reduce our sales of term or universal life products and/or have a negative impact on our capital position. in addition, we are subject to a new regulation that affects the types of assets we can use in captive reinsurance companies to back the reserves we hold for term and universal life products. see regulatory and legal risks our businesses are heavily regulated and changes in regulation may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition below. we may experience difficulty in marketing and distributing products through our current and future distribution channels. although we distribute our products through a wide variety of distribution channels, we do maintain relationships with certain key distributors. for example, a significant amount of our sales in japan through banks is derived through a single major japanese bank and a significant portion of our sales in japan through life consultants is derived through a single association relationship. we periodically negotiate the terms of these relationships, and there can be no assurance that such terms will remain acceptable to us or such third parties. an interruption in certain key relationships could materially affect our ability to market our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. distributors may elect to reduce or terminate their distribution relationships with us, including for such reasons as adverse developments in our business, adverse rating agency actions or concerns about market-related risks. we are also at risk that key distribution partners may merge, change their business models in ways that affect how our products are sold, or terminate their distribution contracts with us, or that new distribution channels could emerge and adversely impact the effectiveness of our distribution efforts. an increase in bank and broker-dealer consolidation activity could increase competition for access to distributors, result in greater distribution expenses and impair our ability to market products through these channels. consolidation of distributors and/or other industry changes may also increase the likelihood that distributors will try to renegotiate the terms of any existing selling agreements to terms less favorable to us. 37 table of contents when our products are distributed through unaffiliated firms, we may not be able to monitor or control the manner of their distribution despite our training and compliance programs. if our products are distributed by such firms in an inappropriate manner, or to customers for whom they are unsuitable, we may suffer reputational and other harm to our business. regulatory and legal risks our businesses are heavily regulated and changes in regulation may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. our businesses are subject to comprehensive regulation and supervision. the purpose of this regulation is primarily to protect our customers and not necessarily our shareholders or debt holders. many of the laws and regulations to which we are subject, including those to which our international businesses are subject, are regularly re-examined, and existing or future laws and regulations may become more restrictive or otherwise adversely affect our operations. the financial market dislocations we have experienced have produced, and are expected to continue to produce, extensive changes in existing laws and regulations, and regulatory frameworks, applicable to our businesses in the u.s. and internationally. prudential financial, the holding company for all of our operations, is subject to supervision by the frb as a designated financial company pursuant to dodd-frank. as a designated financial company, prudential financial is and will be subject to substantial additional regulation as discussed further herein. in addition, the fsb identified prudential financial as a g-sii. as a result, u.s. financial regulators are expected to enhance their regulation of prudential financial to achieve a number of regulatory objectives. this additional regulation has increased and is likely to continue to increase our operational, compliance and risk management costs, and could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition, including potentially increasing our capital levels and requiring us to hold additional liquid assets and therefore reducing our return on capital. in 2015 njdobi became prudential financial's group-wide supervisor pursuant to legislation adopted by the state. we cannot predict what additional requirements or costs may result from njdobi's assertion of group-wide supervisor status with respect to prudential financial. see business regulation insurance holding company regulation. as a result of a february 2014 agreement with the ny dfs regarding our reserving methodologies for certain variable annuity and life insurance products, certain of our new york licensed insurance subsidiaries hold additional statutory reserves on a new york basis, which reduces their new york statutory surplus. while these subsidiaries held sufficient statutory surplus on a new york basis as of december 31, 2015 to satisfy these additional reserves, the agreed reserve methodologies may require us to hold additional new york statutory reserves in the future. if we are required to establish material additional reserves on a new york statutory accounting basis or post material amounts of additional collateral with respect to annuity or insurance products, our ability to deploy capital held within our u.s. domestic insurance subsidiaries for other purposes could be affected. the naic and state insurance regulators have increased their focus on life insurers' use of captive reinsurance companies. in december 2014, the naic adopted ag 48 that applies to certain life insurance captive reinsurance transactions. in addition, in november 2015, the naic adopted the variable annuities framework for change, which outlines the naic's commitment to change in concept the statutory framework to address concerns that have led to the development and utilization of captive reinsurance transactions for variable annuity business in order to create more consistency across regulators and remove incentives for insurers to cede risk to captives. see business regulation insurance operations state insurance regulation captive reinsurance companies for information on ag 48, the variable annuities framework for change and our use of captive reinsurance companies. for business ceded to captive reinsurance companies, ag 48 will require us to hold cash or rated securities in greater amounts than we previously held to support economic reserves for certain of our term and universal life policies. while we continue to work with regulators and industry participants on potential long-term solutions, ag 48 may ultimately adversely affect our ability to write certain products and efficiently manage their associated risks and we may need to increase prices and/or reduce sales of certain products, modify certain products or find alternate financing sources, any of which could adversely affect our competitiveness, capital and financial position and results of operations. furthermore, we cannot predict what, if any, changes may result from the variable annuities framework for change, and if applicable insurance laws are changed in a way that impairs our ability to write variable annuities and efficiently manage their associated risks, we may need to increase prices or modify our products, which could also adversely affect our competitiveness, capital and financial position and results of operations. 38 table of contents other naic or state insurance regulator actions, such as the adoption of principles-based reserving or changes to rbc calculations, may adversely impact our business from time to time. the failure of prudential insurance and our other domestic insurance subsidiaries to meet applicable rbc requirements or minimum statutory capital and surplus requirements could subject those subsidiaries to further examination or corrective action by state insurance regulators. the failure to maintain the rbc ratios of prudential insurance and our other domestic insurance subsidiaries at desired levels could also adversely impact our competitive position, including as a result of downgrades to our financial strength ratings. our international insurance companies are subject to conceptually similar measures of capital adequacy, including solvency margin ratios for our japanese insurance companies, and we face similar risks as those described for our domestic companies in the event that we are unable to maintain these measures at adequate levels. further, adverse financial performance in the closed block, including adverse investment performance, may adversely affect prudential insurance's rbc ratios in the short term, although dividends to closed block policyholders may be subsequently adjusted to reflect such performance. in some cases, our reserves include assumptions about the availability of government benefits that are controlled by legislative or regulatory processes. to the extent the outcomes of these processes differ from our expectations, we may experience adverse effects on our financial condition. for example, since social security disability insurance ("ssdi") benefits are an offset to the benefits payable under group disability policies, any decrease in ssdi benefits, or changes in eligibility, could have a significant impact on the group disability market, including reserve impacts and increases in the cost of benefits. compliance with applicable laws and regulations is time consuming and personnel-intensive, and changes in these laws and regulations may materially increase our direct and indirect compliance and other expenses of doing business, and thereby have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. see business regulation for discussion of regulation of our businesses. the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act subjects us to substantial additional federal regulation and we cannot predict the effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. in 2013, the council made a final determination that prudential financial should be subject to stricter prudential regulatory standards and supervision by the frb as a designated financial company pursuant to dodd-frank, thereby subjecting us to substantial federal regulation, much of it pursuant to regulations not yet promulgated. dodd-frank directs existing and newly-created government agencies and bodies to promulgate regulations implementing the law, a process that is underway and expected to continue over the next few years. we cannot predict the timing or requirements of the regulations not yet adopted under dodd-frank or how such regulations will impact our business, credit or financial strength ratings, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition or competitive position. furthermore, we cannot predict whether such regulations will make it advisable or how regulators will advise or require us to hold or raise additional capital or liquid assets, potentially affecting capital deployment activities, including buying back shares or paying dividends. key aspects of dodd-frank's impact on us include: as a designated financial company, prudential financial is now subject to supervision and examination by the frb and to stricter prudential standards, which include or will include requirements and limitations (many of which are the subject of ongoing rule-making) relating to capital, leverage, liquidity, stress-testing, overall risk management, credit exposure reporting, early remediation, managing interlocks, credit concentration, and resolution and recovery planning. if the frb and the fdic jointly determine that our resolution plan is deficient, they may impose more stringent capital, leverage, or liquidity requirements, or restrictions on our growth, activities, or operations. any continuing failure to adequately remedy the deficiencies could result in the frb and the fdic jointly, in consultation with the council, ordering divestiture of certain operations or assets. in addition, failure to meet defined measures of financial condition could result in substantial restrictions on our business and capital distributions. we will also be subject to stress tests to be promulgated by the frb which could cause us to alter our business practices or affect the perceptions of regulators, rating agencies, customers, counterparties or investors of our financial strength. we cannot predict the requirements of the regulations not yet adopted or how the frb will apply these prudential standards to us. as a designated financial company, prudential financial must also seek pre-approval from the frb for acquisition of certain companies engaged in financial activities. as a designated financial company, we could also be subject to additional capital requirements for, and other restrictions on, proprietary trading and sponsorship of, and investment in, hedge, private equity and other covered funds. the council could recommend new or heightened standards and safeguards for activities or practices in which we and other financial services companies engage. we cannot predict whether any such recommendations will be made or their effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. 39 table of contents dodd-frank created a new framework for regulation of the otc derivatives markets which could impact various activities of pgf, prudential financial and our insurance subsidiaries, which use derivatives for various purposes (including hedging interest rate, foreign currency and equity market exposures). while many of the regulations required to be promulgated under dodd-frank or internationally with respect to derivatives markets have been adopted by the applicable regulatory agencies, the regulations that remain to be adopted or that have not been fully implemented could substantially increase the cost of hedging and related operations, affect the profitability of our products or their attractiveness to our clients or cause us to alter our hedging strategy or implementation thereof or increase and/or change the composition of the risks we do not hedge. in particular, we continue to monitor increased capital requirements for derivatives transactions that may be imposed on banks that are our counterparties. title ii of dodd-frank provides that a financial company such as prudential financial may be subject to a special orderly liquidation process outside the federal bankruptcy code, administered by the fdic as receiver, upon a determination that the company is in default or in danger of default and presents a systemic risk to u.s. financial stability, and our u.s. insurance subsidiaries would be subject to rehabilitation and liquidation proceedings under state insurance law. we cannot predict how creditors of prudential financial or its insurance and non-insurance subsidiaries, including the holders of prudential financial debt, will evaluate this potential or whether it will impact our financing or hedging costs. see business regulation for further discussion of the impact of dodd-frank on our businesses. changes in the laws and regulations relating to retirement products and services, including proposed regulations released by the dol in 2015, could adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. in april 2015, the dol released a proposed regulation, accompanied by new class exemptions and proposed amendments to long-standing exemptions from the prohibited transaction provisions under erisa, and it is expected that the dol will promulgate final rules in 2016. if enacted, the rules will redefine who would be considered a fiduciary for purposes of transactions with plans, plan participants and iras. we cannot predict the exact nature and scope of any new final rules or their impact on our business; however, the new rules may effectively impose limits on interactions with existing and prospective customers in our individual life (including prudential advisors), individual annuities, asset management, retirement and group insurance businesses. in addition, we may experience increased costs if we need to adapt our technology and operational infrastructure to meet disclosure and compliance requirements under the proposed rules. our compliance with the proposed rules could lead to a loss of customers and revenues, and otherwise adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. if the proposed rules are adopted in their current form, significant potential impacts on certain of our businesses would include the following. prudential advisors: we expect compliance with a new best interest contract exemption may be required for ira and small plan retirement accounts for a wide range of products, representing a significant part of prudential advisors' total business. this would impose compliance and contract requirements and would give customers a private right of action for breach of contract if an advisor provides advice that is not in the customer's best interest. we expect this would result in additional costs, oversight and litigation risks, as well as changes to compensation and benefit structures and may require us to review product offerings to ensure a sufficient variety of non-proprietary options. annuities: certain distributors may restrict the sale of annuities, and may remove themselves as broker of record, transitioning servicing and compliance back to prudential. in addition, we may need to alter our product design to comply with the new rules. we may also need to monitor wholesaling and other sales support activities so as not to be considered fiduciary advice, which would subject those activities to greater liability exposure. asset management: distribution partners may have specific product and pricing needs, and may request tailoring product offerings or pricing to support compliance with a new standard. this business may also require monitoring of wholesaling and other sales support activities so that these activities would not be considered fiduciary advice, which would subject those activities to greater liability exposure. retirement: asset allocation tools included in our product offerings, when mapped to specific investments, may fall within the definition of acting as a fiduciary and could need to be altered or discontinued in order to minimize potential liability. ira offerings and asset retention and consolidation activities may need to comply with a new best interest contract exemption, referred to above. in addition, changes to the relationship with sponsors and intermediaries for small business plans (fewer than 100 lives) would be required to avoid assuming a fiduciary role and the associated potential liability. 40 table of contents in addition to the dol rulemaking described above, lawmakers and regulatory authorities from time to time enact legislative and regulatory changes that could decrease the attractiveness of certain of our retirement products and services to retirement plan sponsors and administrators, or have an unfavorable effect on our ability to earn revenues from these products and services. over time, these changes could hinder our sales of retirement products and services. we cannot predict with any certainty the effect these legislative and regulatory changes may have on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. see business regulation investment and retirement products and asset management operations for further discussion of regulation of our businesses. foreign governmental actions could subject us to substantial additional regulation. in addition to the adoption of dodd-frank in the united states, the fsb has issued a series of proposals intended to produce significant changes in how financial companies, particularly companies that are members of large and complex financial groups, should be regulated. the fsb identified prudential financial as a g-sii. the framework policy measures for g-siis published by the iais include enhanced group-wide supervision, enhanced capital standards, enhanced liquidity planning and management, and development of a risk reduction plan and recovery and resolution plans. the iais has released a basic capital requirement ( bcr ) and higher loss absorbency ( hla ) standard that have been approved by the fsb and g20 with implementation in 2019. the iais is also developing comframe for the supervision of internationally active insurance groups that seeks to promote effective and globally-consistent supervision of the insurance industry and contribute to global financial stability through uniform standards for insurer corporate governance, enterprise risk management and other control functions, group-wide supervision and group capital adequacy. comframe is also scheduled to be adopted by the iais in 2019. policy measures applicable to g-siis would need to be implemented by legislation or regulation in each applicable jurisdiction. we cannot predict the impact of bcr, hla or comframe on our business, or the outcome of our identification as a g-sii on the regulation of our businesses. the lawmakers and regulatory authorities in a number of jurisdictions in which we do business have already begun enacting or considering legislative and regulatory changes consistent with g20 and fsb recommendations, including laws and proposals governing consolidated regulation of insurance holding companies set forth by the fsa in japan. at this time, we cannot predict what additional capital requirements, compliance costs or other burdens continued international legislative and regulatory change will impose on us. see business regulation international and global regulatory initiatives and regulation of our international businesses for further discussion of the impact of foreign regulation on our business. adverse market, economic and financial conditions in europe have given rise to a perceived risk of defaults on the government securities of certain european countries and potentially by financial institutions with significant direct or indirect exposure to such government securities. further regulatory initiatives may develop in response to these conditions and related political and economic events such as possible changes in the euro or to the structure or membership of the european monetary union. changes in accounting requirements could negatively impact our reported results of operations and our reported financial position. accounting standards are continuously evolving and subject to change. for example, the fasb has an ongoing project to revise accounting standards for insurance contracts. while the final resolution of changes to u.s. gaap pursuant to this project is unclear, changes to the manner in which we account for insurance products, or other changes in accounting standards, could have a material effect on our reported results of operations and financial condition. further, changes in accounting standards may impose special demands on issuers in areas such as corporate governance, internal controls and disclosure, and may result in substantial conversion costs to implement. changes in u.s. federal income tax law or in the income tax laws of other jurisdictions that impact our tax profile could make some of our products less attractive to consumers and also increase our tax costs. there is uncertainty regarding u.s. taxes both for individuals and corporations. discussions in washington continue concerning the need to reform the tax code, primarily by lowering tax rates and broadening the base, including by reducing or eliminating certain tax expenditures. broadening the tax base or reducing or eliminating certain tax expenditures could make our products less attractive to customers. it is unclear whether or when congress may take up overall tax reform and what would be the impact of reform on the company and its products. 41 table of contents however, even in the absence of overall tax reform, given the large federal deficit, as well as the budget constraints faced by many states and localities, congress and state and local governments could raise revenue by enacting legislation to increase the taxes paid by individuals and corporations. this can be accomplished either by raising rates or otherwise changing the tax rules that affect the company and its products. congress from time to time considers legislation that could make our products less attractive to consumers. current u.s. federal income tax laws generally permit certain holders to defer taxation on the build-up of value of annuities and life insurance products until payments are actually made to the policyholder or other beneficiary and to exclude from taxation the death benefit paid under a life insurance contract. while higher tax rates increase the benefits of tax deferral on the build-up of value of annuities and life insurance, making our products more attractive to consumers, legislation that reduces or eliminates deferral could have a negative effect on our products. congress, as well as state and local governments, also considers from time to time legislation that could increase the amount of corporate taxes we pay, thereby reducing earnings. for example, changes in the law relating to tax reserving methodologies for term life or universal life insurance policies with secondary guarantees or other products could result in higher current taxes. the obama administration's revenue proposals include proposals which, if enacted, would affect the taxation of life insurance companies and certain life insurance products. in particular, the proposals would affect the treatment of corporate-owned life insurance policies ( coli ) by limiting the availability of certain interest deductions for companies that purchase those policies. the proposals would also change the method used to determine the amount of dividend income received by a life insurance company on assets held in separate accounts used to support products, including variable life insurance and variable annuity contracts, that is eligible for the drd. the drd reduces the amount of dividend income subject to tax and is a major reason for the difference between our actual tax expense and the expected tax amount determined using the federal statutory tax rate of 35%. if proposals of this type were enacted, the company's sale of coli, variable annuities, and variable life insurance products could be adversely affected and the company's actual tax expense could increase, thereby reducing earnings. furthermore, the administration's fiscal year 2017 revenue proposals also include items that would change the way u.s. multinational corporations are taxed, as well as a liability-based fee on financial services companies, including insurance companies, with consolidated assets in excess of $50 billion. if these types of provisions are enacted into law, they could increase the amount of taxes the company pays. the products we sell have different tax characteristics, in some cases generating tax deductions and credits for the company. changes in either the u.s. or foreign tax laws may negatively impact the deductions and credits available to the company, including the ability of the company to claim foreign tax credits with respect to taxes withheld on separate account products. these changes would increase the company's actual tax expense and reduce its consolidated net income. the level of profitability of certain of our products is significantly dependent on these characteristics and our ability to continue to generate taxable income, which is taken into consideration when pricing products and is a component of our capital management strategies. accordingly, changes in tax law, our ability to generate taxable income, or other factors impacting the availability or value of the tax characteristics generated by our products could impact product pricing and returns or require us to reduce our sales of these products or implement other actions that could be disruptive to our businesses. in addition, the adoption of a principles-based approach for statutory reserves may lead to significant changes to the way tax reserves are determined and thus reduce future tax deductions. for a discussion of the impact of the tax laws outside the u.s., see other risks we have substantial international operations and our international operations face political, legal, operational and other risks that could adversely affect those operations or our profitability below. 42 table of contents our ability to meet obligations, pay shareholder dividends, and to engage in share repurchases may be adversely affected by limitations imposed on dividends and other distributions from our subsidiaries. prudential financial is the holding company for all our operations, and dividends, returns of capital and interest income from its subsidiaries are the principal source of funds available to prudential financial to pay shareholder dividends, to make share repurchases and to meet its other obligations. these sources of funds may be complemented by prudential financial's access, if available, to the capital markets and bank facilities. as described under business regulation and note 15 to the consolidated financial statements, our domestic and foreign insurance and various other subsidiary companies, are subject to regulatory limitations on the payment of dividends and on other transfers of funds to prudential financial. in addition, our management of our subsidiaries to have capitalization consistent with their ratings objectives itself may constrain their payment of dividends. finally, dodd-frank and emerging international capital and other prudential standards may ultimately result in additional restrictions on transfers of funds to prudential financial, or by prudential financial to its shareholders, either to satisfy enhanced prudential standards, due to inadequate stress-test performance, or otherwise. these restrictions may limit or prevent our subsidiaries from making dividend or other payments to prudential financial, or limit or prevent prudential financial from making payments to third-parties, in an amount sufficient to fund prudential financial's obligations, shareholder dividends and share repurchases. from time to time, the naic and various state and foreign insurance regulators have considered, and may in the future consider, proposals to further limit dividend payments that an insurance company may make without regulatory approval. legal and regulatory actions are inherent in our businesses and could adversely affect our results of operations or financial position or harm our businesses or reputation. we are, and in the future may be, subject to legal and regulatory actions in the ordinary course of our businesses, including in businesses that we have divested or placed in wind-down status. some of these actions relate to aspects of the company's businesses and operations that are specific to us, while others are typical of the businesses in which we operate. we face or may face lawsuits alleging, among other things, issues relating to unclaimed property procedures, the settlement of death benefit claims, breaches of fiduciary duties, violations of securities laws and employment matters. some of these proceedings have been brought on behalf of various alleged classes of complainants. in certain of these matters, the plaintiffs are seeking large and/or indeterminate amounts, including punitive or exemplary damages. in addition, many insurance regulatory and other governmental or self-regulatory bodies have the authority to review our products and business practices and those of our agents and employees and to bring regulatory or other legal actions against us if, in their view, our practices, or those of our agents or employees, are improper. these actions can result in substantial fines, penalties or prohibitions or restrictions on our business activities and could adversely affect our business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. further, the financial services industry in general has faced increased regulatory scrutiny from governmental and self-regulatory bodies conducting inquiries and investigations into various products and business practices. this regulatory scrutiny has in some cases led to proposed or final legislation and regulation that could significantly affect the financial services industry, and may ultimately result in an increased risk of regulatory penalties, settlements and litigation. legal liability or adverse publicity in respect of current or future legal or regulatory actions, whether or not involving us, could have an adverse effect on us or cause us reputational harm, which in turn could harm our business prospects. as a participant in the insurance and financial services industries, we may continue to experience a high level of legal and regulatory actions related to our businesses and operations. material pending litigation and regulatory matters affecting us, and certain risks to our businesses presented by such matters, are discussed under commitments and guarantees, contingent liabilities and litigation and regulatory matters in note 23 to the consolidated financial statements. our litigation and regulatory matters are subject to many uncertainties, and given their complexity and scope, their outcome cannot be predicted. our reserves for litigation and regulatory matters may prove to be inadequate. it is possible that our results of operations or cash flow in a particular quarterly or annual period could be materially affected by an ultimate unfavorable resolution of pending litigation and regulatory matters. in light of the unpredictability of the company's litigation and regulatory matters, it is also possible that in certain cases an ultimate unfavorable resolution of one or more pending litigation or regulatory matters could have a material adverse effect on the company's financial position. we may not be able to protect our intellectual property and may be subject to infringement claims. we rely on a combination of contractual rights with employees and third parties and on copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws to establish and protect our intellectual property. although we endeavor to protect our rights, third parties may infringe or misappropriate our intellectual property. we may have to litigate to enforce and protect our copyrights, trademarks, patents, trade secrets and know-how or to determine their scope, validity or enforceability. this would represent a diversion of resources that may be significant and our efforts may not prove successful. the inability to secure or protect our intellectual property assets could have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to compete. 43 table of contents we may be subject to claims by third parties for (i) patent, trademark or copyright infringement; (ii) breach of copyright, trademark or license usage rights; or (iii) misappropriation of trade secrets. any such claims and any resulting litigation could result in significant expense and liability for damages. if we were found to have infringed or misappropriated a third-party patent or other intellectual property right, we could in some circumstances be enjoined from providing certain products or services to our customers or from utilizing and benefiting from certain methods, processes, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets or licenses. alternatively, we could be required to enter into costly licensing arrangements with third-parties or implement a costly work around. any of these scenarios could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. operational risks interruption in telecommunication, information technology and other operational systems, or a failure to maintain the security, confidentiality or privacy of sensitive data residing on such systems, could harm our business. we depend heavily on our telecommunication, information technology and other operational systems and on the integrity and timeliness of data we use to run our businesses and service our customers. these systems may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events or circumstances wholly or partly beyond our control. further, we face the risk of operational and technology failures by others, including clearing agents, exchanges and other financial intermediaries and of vendors and parties to which we outsource the provision of services or business operations. if these parties do not perform as anticipated, we may experience operational difficulties, increased costs and other adverse effects on our business. these risks are heightened by our offering of increasingly complex products, such as those that feature automatic rebalancing or re-allocation strategies, and by our employment of complex investment, trading and hedging programs. despite our implementation of a variety of security measures, our information technology and other systems could be subject to physical or electronic break-ins, unauthorized tampering or other security breaches, resulting in a failure to maintain the security, confidentiality or privacy of sensitive data, including personal information relating to customers, or in the misappropriation of our intellectual property or proprietary information. many financial services institutions and companies engaged in data processing have reported breaches in the security of their websites or other systems, some of which have involved sophisticated and targeted attacks intended to obtain unauthorized access to confidential information, destroy data, disrupt or degrade service, sabotage systems or cause other damage, often through the introduction of computer viruses or malware, cyber attacks and other means. despite our efforts to ensure the integrity of our systems, it is possible that we may not be able to anticipate or to implement effective preventive measures against all security breaches of these types, especially because the techniques used change frequently or are not recognized until launched, and because cyber attacks can originate from a wide variety of sources, including third-parties outside of prudential such as persons who are involved with organized crime or who may be linked to terrorist organizations or hostile foreign governments, as well as external service providers. those parties may also attempt to fraudulently induce employees, customers or other users of prudential's systems to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to our data or that of our customers or clients. in addition, while we have certain standards for all vendors that provide us services, our vendors, and in turn, their own service providers, may become subject to a security breach, including as a result of their failure to perform in accordance with contractual arrangements. security breaches or other technological failures may also result in regulatory inquiries, regulatory proceedings, regulatory and litigation costs, and reputational damage. we may incur reimbursement and other expenses, including the costs of litigation and litigation settlements and additional compliance costs. we may also incur considerable expenses in enhancing and upgrading computer systems and systems security following such a failure. interruption in telecommunication, information technology and other operational systems, or a failure to maintain the security, confidentiality or privacy of sensitive data residing on such systems, whether due to actions by us or others, could delay or disrupt our ability to do business and service our customers, harm our reputation, result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws, subject us to substantial regulatory sanctions and other claims, lead to a loss of customers and revenues or financial loss to our customers and otherwise adversely affect our business. 44 table of contents we face risks arising from acquisitions, divestitures and restructurings, including client losses, surrenders and withdrawals, difficulties in executing, integrating and realizing the projected results of acquisitions and contingent liabilities with respect to dispositions. we face a number of risks arising from acquisition transactions, including the risk that, following the acquisition or reorganization of a business, we could experience client losses, surrenders or withdrawals or other results materially different from those we anticipate. we may also experience difficulties in executing previously-announced transactions, and integrating and realizing the projected results of acquisitions and restructurings and managing the litigation and regulatory matters to which acquired entities are party. we have retained insurance or reinsurance obligations and other contingent liabilities in connection with our divestiture or winding down of various businesses, and our reserves for these obligations and liabilities may prove to be inadequate. these risks may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. other risks our risk management policies and procedures may prove to be ineffective and leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk, which could adversely affect our businesses or result in losses. we have developed an enterprise-wide risk management framework to mitigate risk and loss to the company, and we maintain policies, procedures and controls intended to identify, measure, monitor, report and analyze the risks to which the company is exposed. there are, however, inherent limitations to risk management strategies because there may exist, or develop in the future, risks that we have not appropriately anticipated or identified. if our risk management framework proves ineffective, the company may suffer unexpected losses and could be materially adversely affected. as our businesses change and the markets in which we operate evolve, our risk management framework may not evolve at the same pace as those changes. as a result, there is a risk that new products or new business strategies may present risks that are not appropriately identified, monitored or managed. in times of market stress, unanticipated market movements or unanticipated claims experience resulting from adverse mortality or morbidity, the effectiveness of our risk management strategies may be limited, resulting in losses to the company. in addition, under difficult or less liquid market conditions, our risk management strategies may not be effective because other market participants may be using the same or similar strategies to manage risk under the same challenging market conditions. in such circumstances, it may be difficult or more expensive for us to mitigate risk due to the activity of such other market participants. many of our risk management strategies or techniques are based upon historical customer and market behavior and all such strategies and techniques are based to some degree on management's subjective judgment. we cannot provide assurance that our risk management framework, including the underlying assumptions or strategies, will be accurate and effective. management of operational, legal and regulatory risks requires, among other things, policies, procedures and controls to record properly and verify a large number of transactions and events, and these policies, procedures and controls may not be fully effective. models are utilized by our businesses and corporate areas primarily to project future cash flows associated with pricing products, calculating reserves and valuing assets, as well as in evaluating risk and determining capital requirements, among other uses. these models may not operate properly and may rely on assumptions and projections that are inherently uncertain. as our businesses continue to grow and evolve, the number and complexity of models we utilize expands, increasing our exposure to error in the design, implementation or use of models, including the associated input data and assumptions. past or future misconduct by our employees or employees of our vendors could result in violations of law by us, regulatory sanctions and/or serious reputational or financial harm and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. there can be no assurance that controls and procedures that we employ, which are designed to monitor associates' business decisions and prevent us from taking excessive or inappropriate risks, will be effective. we review our compensation policies and practices as part of our overall risk management program, but it is possible that our compensation policies and practices could inadvertently incentivize excessive or inappropriate risk taking. if our associates take excessive or inappropriate risks, those risks could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. in our investments in which we hold a minority interest, or that are managed by third parties, we lack management and operational control over operations, which may subject us to additional operational, compliance and legal risks and prevent us from taking or causing to be taken actions to protect or increase the value of those investments. in those jurisdictions where we are constrained by law from owning a majority interest in jointly owned operations, our remedies in the event of a breach by a joint venture partner may be limited (e.g., we may have no ability to exercise a call option). 45 table of contents the occurrence of natural or man-made disasters could adversely affect our operations, results of operations and financial condition. the occurrence of natural disasters, including hurricanes, floods, earthquakes, tsunamis, tornadoes, fires, explosions, pandemic disease and man-made disasters, including acts of terrorism and military actions, could adversely affect our operations, results of operations or financial condition, including in the following respects: catastrophic loss of life due to natural or man-made disasters could cause us to pay benefits at higher levels and/or materially earlier than anticipated and could lead to unexpected changes in persistency rates. a man-made or natural disaster, such as an earthquake in japan, could result in disruptions in our operations, losses in our investment portfolio or the failure of our counterparties to perform, or cause significant volatility in global financial markets. a terrorist attack affecting financial institutions in the u. s. or elsewhere could negatively impact the financial services industry in general and our business operations, investment portfolio and profitability in particular. pandemic disease could have a severe adverse effect on prudential financial's business. the potential impact of such a pandemic on prudential financial's results of operations and financial position is highly speculative, and would depend on numerous factors, including: the effectiveness of vaccines and the rate of contagion; the regions of the world most affected; the effectiveness of treatment for the infected population; the rates of mortality and morbidity among various segments of the insured population; the collectability of reinsurance; the possible macroeconomic effects of a pandemic on our asset portfolio; the effect on lapses and surrenders of existing policies, as well as sales of new policies; and many other variables. the above risks are more pronounced in respect of geographic areas, including major metropolitan centers, where we have concentrations of customers, including under group and individual life insurance, concentrations of employees or significant operations, and in respect of countries and regions in which we operate subject to a greater potential threat of military action or conflict. there can be no assurance that our business continuation plans and insurance coverages would be effective in mitigating any negative effects on our operations or profitability in the event of a terrorist attack or other disaster. finally, climate change may increase the frequency and severity of weather related disasters. in addition, climate change regulation may affect the prospects of companies and other entities whose securities we hold and other counterparties, including reinsurers, and affect the value of investments, including real estate investments we hold or manage for others. we cannot predict the long-term impacts on us from climate change or related regulation. we have substantial international operations and our international operations face political, legal, operational and other risks that could adversely affect those operations or our profitability. a substantial portion of our revenues and income from continuing operations is derived from our operations outside the u.s., primarily japan and korea. some of these operations are subject to restrictions on transferring funds out of the countries in which they are located. some of our foreign insurance and investment management operations are, and are likely to continue to be, in emerging markets where this risk, as well as risks of discriminatory regulation, labor issues in connection with workers' associations and trade unions, price controls, currency exchange controls, nationalization or expropriation of assets, are heightened. if our business model is not successful in a particular country, we may lose all or most of our investment in building and training our sales force in that country. many of our insurance products sold in international markets, including japan, provide for the buildup of cash values for the policyholder at contractually fixed guaranteed interest rates. actual returns on the underlying investments may not necessarily support the guaranteed interest rates and there may be times when the spread between the actual investment returns and these guaranteed rates of return to the policyholder is negative. this negative spread may not be offset by the mortality, morbidity and expense charges we earn on the products, and will likely be exacerbated in prolonged periods of low interest rates. our international businesses are subject to the tax laws and regulations of the countries in which they are organized and in which they operate. foreign governments from time to time consider legislation that could increase the amount of taxes that we pay or impact the sales of our products. such changes could negatively impact sales of our products or reduce our profits. our international operations are regulated in the jurisdictions in which they are located or operate. these regulations may apply heightened scrutiny to non-domestic companies, which can reduce our flexibility as to intercompany transactions, investments and other aspects of business operations and adversely affect our liquidity, profitability, and regulatory capital. 46 table of contents intense competition, including the impact of government sponsored programs and other actions on us and our competitors, could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our market share or profitability. in each of our businesses we face intense competition from insurance companies, asset managers and diversified financial institutions, both for the ultimate customers for our products and, in many businesses, for distribution through non-affiliated distribution channels. we compete based on a number of factors including brand recognition, reputation, quality of service, quality of investment advice, investment performance of our products, product features, scope of distribution and distribution arrangements, price, perceived financial strength and credit and financial strength ratings. a decline in our competitive position as to one or more of these factors could adversely affect our profitability and assets under management. many of our competitors are large and well-established and some have greater market share or breadth of distribution, offer a broader range of products, services or features, assume a greater level of risk, have lower profitability expectations or have higher financial strength or credit ratings than we do. the proliferation and growth of non-affiliated distribution channels puts pressure on our captive sales channels to increase their productivity and reduce their costs in order to remain competitive, and we run the risk that the marketplace will make a more significant or rapid shift to non-affiliated or direct distribution alternatives than we anticipate or are able to achieve ourselves, potentially adversely affecting our market share and results of operations. in addition, technological advances or other changes in the marketplace may present opportunities for new or smaller competitors without established products or distribution channels to meet consumers' increased expectations more efficiently than us. in certain international markets in which we operate, we face competition from government owned entities that benefit from pricing or other competitive advantages. the competitive landscape in which we operate may be further affected by government sponsored programs and longer term fiscal policies. competitors that receive governmental financing or other assistance or subsidies, including governmental guarantees of their obligations, may have or obtain pricing or other competitive advantages. competitors that are not subject to the same regulatory framework may also have a pricing advantage, including as a result of lower capital requirements. competition for personnel in all of our businesses is intense, including for executive officers and management personnel, agents within prudential advisors, life planners, life consultants and other sales personnel, and our investment managers. we devote significant efforts to talent management and development and are subject to the risk that executive, management and other personnel will be hired or recruited by competitors. competition for desirable non-affiliated distribution channels is also intense. the loss of key personnel or non-affiliated distribution channels could have an adverse effect on our business and profitability. at an enterprise level, prudential financial is one of three designated financial companies in the insurance industry. this additional regulation has resulted in increased operational, compliance and risk management costs, and may result in further impacts if we are ultimately required to increase our capital levels or hold additional liquid assets relative to our competitors. regulatory requirements could delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that shareholders might consider in their best interests. insurance regulatory authorities in the various jurisdictions in which our insurance companies are domiciled, including new jersey and japan, must approve any change of control of prudential financial or the insurance companies organized under their laws. federal and state banking laws also generally require regulatory approval for a change in control of prudential financial or pb&amp;t. the u.s. federal securities laws could also require reapproval by customers of our investment advisory contracts to manage mutual funds, including mutual funds included in annuity products, upon a change in control. the new jersey business corporation act prohibits certain business combinations with interested shareholders. dodd-frank concentration limits also impose restrictions on the acquisition of designated financial companies where the resulting entity's total liabilities exceed 10% of total u.s. financial company liabilities, which may prohibit certain companies from acquiring prudential financial. in addition, the frb must approve any acquisition by a designated financial company of more than 5% of the voting stock of a company engaged in financial activities with $10 billion or more in assets, such as prudential financial. these regulatory and other restrictions may delay or prevent a potential merger or sale of prudential financial, even if the board of directors decides that it is in the best interests of shareholders to merge or be sold. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 162 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. insurance risk management we define insurance risk as the risk of loss due to deviations in experience compared to our assumptions. our exposure is primarily comprised of: mortality risk, or the risk that death claims are greater than expected, primarily within our individual life, group insurance and international insurance segments, or the risk that policyholders survive longer than expected, primarily within our individual annuities, retirement and international insurance segments; morbidity risk, or the risk that health claims from sickness or disability are greater than expected, primarily within our group insurance and international insurance segments as well as from long-term care policies within divested businesses; and policyholder behavior risk, or the risk that our customers' persistency experience or utilization experience differs from our expectations. underwriting insurance risk is a fundamental part of our business. we believe our scale provides for the benefits of diversification, both within an insurance risk type (potentially enhancing predictability of experience) and across insurance risk types (for example, to some extent, mortality risk provides a natural hedge against longevity risk). insurance risk mitigation begins with product design, as well as underwriting and pricing standards at the business unit level with corporate oversight. in some cases, the availability and/or credibility of policyholder behavior experience may be limited, which we strive to reflect in the product design and pricing of the product. we provide corporate oversight of the material insurance risk assumptions utilized in pricing and valuation. operational risk management operational risk is defined as the risk of direct or indirect loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes and systems, employee actions, or as the result of external events. operational risks are broad in scope and evident in each business unit and corporate function. we are exposed to operational risk in many ways, including, but not limited to: legal and regulatory compliance risk sales practices risk fraud (internal and external) risk reputational risk employee risk technology risk, including data security, system failures and processing errors financial reporting risk extreme events risk, such as loss of people and/or infrastructure caused by natural disasters, terrorism, disease, etc. information risk vendor risk 161 table of contents each of our businesses and corporate functions is expected to manage its operational risks in compliance with enterprise standards. our framework for identifying, evaluating, monitoring and managing operational risk includes: risk management committees; key risk indicators; risk and control assessments; loss event data collection and analysis; scenario analysis; and resolution of control issues. we also have enterprise policies and standards, including: legal and regulatory/compliance policies, such as those relating to sales practices and supervision, fraud prevention, safeguarding of personal information, protection and use of material non-public information, personal conflicts of interest and outside business activities, anti-money laundering, and gifts and entertainment; human resources policies, such as those relating to hiring, training and terminating the employment of our associates and succession planning; and information technology policies, including those on systems development and information security. we also maintain policies and standards to support the effective management of operational risk, including those concerning new product development, business continuation and disaster recovery, enterprise crisis management, and vendor governance. our internal audit department independently audits key operational controls on a periodic basis to assess the effectiveness of our framework. in order to respond to the threat of security breaches and cyber attacks, we have developed a program overseen by the chief information security officer and the information security office that is designed to protect and preserve the confidentiality, integrity, and continued availability of all information owned by, or in the care of the company. as part of this program, we also maintain an incident response plan. the program provides for the coordination of various corporate functions and governance groups, and serves as a framework for the execution of responsibilities across businesses and operational roles. the program establishes security standards for our technological resources, and includes training for employees, contractors and third parties. as part of the program, we conduct periodic exercises and a response readiness assessment with outside advisors to gain a third-party independent assessment of our technical program and our internal response preparedness. we regularly engage with the outside security community and monitor cyber threat information. we are also exposed to emerging risks, such as those conditions, situations or trends that may significantly impact us in the future. by nature, these risks involve a high degree of uncertainty. erm, together with our businesses, monitors and evaluates emerging risks on a regular basis. model risk management models are utilized by our businesses and corporate functions primarily in projecting future cash flows associated with pricing products, calculating reserves and valuing assets, as well as in evaluating risk and determining capital requirements, among other uses. as our businesses continue to grow and evolve, the number and complexity of models we utilize expands, increasing our exposure to error in the design, implementation or use of models, including the associated input data and assumptions. we are mitigating this risk by implementing our model risk policy, which outlines the governance and control requirements over the implementation and use of models, and through the activities of our model risk oversight committee which provides oversight and guidance on issues relating to model risk and the management of that risk. for further information on the risks to which the company is exposed, see item. 1a risk factors. item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk market risk is defined as the risk of loss from changes in interest rates, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates resulting from asset/liability mismatches where the change in the value of our liabilities is not offset by the change in value of our assets. for additional information regarding the potential impacts of interest rate and other market fluctuations, as well as general economic and market conditions on our businesses and profitability, see item 1a. risk factors above. for additional information regarding the overall management of our general account investments and our asset mix strategies, see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations general account investments management of investments above. for additional information regarding our liquidity and capital resources, which may be impacted by changing market risks, see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources above. 162 table of contents market risk management management of market risk, which we consider to be a combination of both investment risk and market risk exposures as described in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations risk management above, includes the identification and measurement of various forms of risk, the establishment of risk thresholds and the creation of processes intended to maintain risks within these thresholds while optimizing returns on the underlying assets or liabilities. risk range limits are established for each type of market risk and are approved by the investment committee of the board of directors and subject to ongoing review. our risk management process utilizes a variety of tools and techniques, including: measures of price sensitivity to market changes (e.g., interest rates, equity index prices, foreign exchange); asset/liability mismatch analytics; stress scenario testing; hedging programs; and risk management governance, including policies, limits, and a committee that oversees investment and market risk. for additional information regarding our overall risk management framework and governance structure, see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations risk management above. market risk mitigation risk mitigation takes three primary forms: asset/liability management: managing assets to liability-based measures. for example, investment policies identify target durations for assets based on liability characteristics and asset portfolios are managed to within ranges around them. this mitigates potential unanticipated economic losses from interest rate movements. hedging non-strategic exposures. for example, our investment policies for our general account portfolios generally require hedging currency risk for cash flows not offset by similarly denominated liabilities. management of portfolio concentration risk. for example, ongoing monitoring and management at the enterprise level of key rate, currency and other concentration risks support diversification efforts to mitigate exposure to individual markets and sources of risk. market risk related to interest rates we perform liability-driven investing and engage in careful asset/liability management. asset/liability mismatches create the risk that changes in liability values will differ from the changes in the value of the related assets. additionally, changes in interest rates may impact other items including, but not limited to, the following: net investment spread between the amounts that we are required to pay and the rate of return we are able to earn on investments for certain products supported by general account investments; asset-based fees earned on assets under management or contractholder account values; estimated total gross profits and the amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs; net exposure to the guarantees provided under certain products; and capital levels of our regulated entities. we use duration and convexity analyses to measure price sensitivity to interest rate changes. duration measures the relative sensitivity of the fair value of a financial instrument to changes in interest rates. convexity measures the rate of change of duration with respect to changes in interest rates. we use asset/liability management and derivative strategies to manage our interest rate exposure by legal entity by matching the relative sensitivity of asset and liability values to interest rate changes, or controlling duration mismatch of assets and liabilities. we have duration mismatch constraints tailored to the rate sensitivity of products in each entity. in certain markets, primarily outside the u.s. and japan, capital market limitations that hinder our ability to acquire assets that approximate the duration of some of our liabilities are considered in setting the limits. as of december 31, 2015 and 2014 , the difference between the duration of assets and the target duration of liabilities in our duration-managed portfolios was within our policy limits. we consider risk-based capital and tax implications as well as current market conditions in our asset/liability management strategies. 163 table of contents we assess the impact of interest rate movements on the value of our financial assets, financial liabilities and derivatives using hypothetical test scenarios that assume either upward or downward 100 basis point parallel shifts in the yield curve from prevailing interest rates, reflecting changes in either credit spreads or the risk-free rate. the following table sets forth the net estimated potential loss in fair value on these financial instruments from a hypothetical 100 basis point upward shift as of december 31, 2015 and 2014 . this table is presented on a gross basis and excludes offsetting impacts to insurance liabilities that are not considered financial liabilities under u.s gaap. this scenario results in the greatest net exposure to interest rate risk of the hypothetical scenarios tested at those dates. while the test scenario is for illustrative purposes only and does not reflect our expectations regarding future interest rates or the performance of fixed income markets, it is a near-term, reasonably possible hypothetical change that illustrates the potential impact of such events. these test scenarios do not measure the changes in value that could result from non-parallel shifts in the yield curve which we would expect to produce different changes in discount rates for different maturities. as a result, the actual loss in fair value from a 100 basis point change in interest rates could be different from that indicated by these calculations. the estimated changes in fair values do not include separate account assets. as of december 31, 2015 as of december 31, 2014 notional fair value hypothetical change in fair value notional fair value hypothetical change in fair value (in millions) financial assets with interest rate risk: fixed maturities(1) $ 322,207 $ (27,832 ) $ 328,942 $ (27,812 ) commercial mortgage and other loans 51,853 (2,369 ) 49,097 (2,176 ) derivatives with interest rate risk: swaps $ 219,511 8,423 (5,960 ) $ 224,345 6,316 (5,690 ) futures 28,538 10 (131 ) 32,357 6 102 options 89,107 232 (868 ) 85,354 952 (337 ) forwards 17,809 204 (5 ) 22,517 (165 ) (27 ) synthetic gics 72,585 7 0 74,707 6 0 variable annuity and other living benefit feature embedded derivatives(2) (8,434 ) 5,072 (8,182 ) 5,560 financial liabilities with interest rate risk(3): short-term and long-term debt (22,522 ) 3,214 (25,974 ) 3,039 limited recourse notes issued by consolidated vies(4) 0 0 (18 ) 0 policyholders' account balances investment contracts (94,271 ) 3,302 (96,375 ) 3,480 net estimated potential loss $ (25,577 ) $ (23,861 ) __________ (1) includes fixed maturities classified as trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities and other fixed maturities classified as trading securities under u.s. gaap, but are held for other than trading activities in our segments that offer insurance, retirement and annuities products. (2) excludes any offsetting impact of derivative instruments purchased to hedge changes in the embedded derivatives. amounts reported net of third-party reinsurance. (3) excludes approximately $267 billion and $259 billion as of december 31, 2015 and 2014 , respectively, of insurance reserve and deposit liabilities which are not considered financial liabilities. we believe that the interest rate sensitivities of these insurance liabilities would serve as an offset to the net interest rate risk of the financial assets and liabilities, including investment contracts. (4) see note 5 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding consolidated vies. under u.s. gaap, the fair value of the embedded derivatives for certain variable annuity and other living benefit features, reflected in the table above, includes the impact of the market's perception of our own npr. the additional credit spread over libor rates incorporated into the discount rate as of december 31, 2015 , to reflect npr in the valuation of these embedded derivatives, ranged from 6 to 176 basis points. the following table provides a demonstration of the sensitivity of these embedded derivatives to our npr credit spread by quantifying the adjustments that would be required assuming both a 50 basis point parallel increase and decrease in our npr credit spreads. while the information below is for illustrative purposes only and does not reflect our expectations regarding our credit spreads, it is a near-term, reasonably possible change that illustrates the potential impact of such a change. this information considers only the direct effect of changes in our credit spread on operating results due to the change in these embedded derivatives, and not changes in any other assumptions such as persistency, utilization and mortality, or the effect of these changes on dac or other balances. 164 table of contents december 31, 2015 december 31, 2014 (increase) / decrease in embedded derivative liability (increase) / decrease in embedded derivative liability (in millions) increase in credit spread by 50 basis points $ 1,714 $ 1,814 decrease in credit spread by 50 basis points $ (2,047 ) $ (2,203 ) for an additional discussion of our variable annuity optional living benefit guarantees accounted for as embedded derivatives and related derivatives used to hedge the changes in fair value of these embedded derivatives, see market risk related to certain variable annuity products below. for additional information about the key estimates and assumptions used in our determination of fair value, see note 20 to the consolidated financial statements below. for information on the impacts of a sustained low interest rate environment, see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations executive summary impact of a low interest rate environment above. market risk related to equity prices we have exposure to equity risk through asset/liability mismatches, including our investments in equity securities held in our general account investment portfolio and unhedged exposure in our insurance liabilities, principally related to certain variable annuity living benefit feature embedded derivatives. our equity-based derivatives primarily hedge the equity risk embedded in these living benefit feature embedded derivatives, and are also part of our capital hedging program. changes in equity prices create risk that the resulting changes in asset values will differ from the changes in the value of the liabilities relating to the underlying or hedged products. additionally, changes in equity prices may impact other items including, but not limited to, the following: asset-based fees earned on assets under management or contractholder account value; estimated total gross profits and the amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs; and net exposure to the guarantees provided under certain products. we manage equity risk against benchmarks in respective markets. we benchmark our return on equity holdings against a blend of market indices, mainly the s&amp;p 500 and russell 2000 for u.s. equities. we benchmark foreign equities against the tokyo price index, and the msci eafe, a market index of european, australian, and far eastern equities. we target price sensitivities that approximate those of the benchmark indices. we estimate our equity risk from a hypothetical 10% decline in equity benchmark market levels. the following table sets forth the net estimated potential loss in fair value from such a decline as of december 31, 2015 and 2014 . while these scenarios are for illustrative purposes only and do not reflect our expectations regarding future performance of equity markets or of our equity portfolio, they represent near-term reasonably possible hypothetical changes that illustrate the potential impact of such events. these scenarios consider only the direct impact on fair value of declines in equity benchmark market levels and not changes in asset-based fees recognized as revenue, changes in our estimates of total gross profits used as a basis for amortizing deferred policy acquisition and other costs, or changes in any other assumptions such as market volatility or mortality, utilization or persistency rates in our variable annuity contracts that could also impact the fair value of our living benefit features. in addition, these scenarios do not reflect the impact of basis risk, such as potential differences in the performance of the investment funds underlying the variable annuity products relative to the market indices we use as a basis for developing our hedging strategy. the impact of basis risk could result in larger differences between the change in fair value of the equity-based derivatives and the related living benefit features in comparison to these scenarios. in calculating these amounts, we exclude separate account equity securities. as of december 31, 2015 as of december 31, 2014 notional fair value hypothetical change in fair value notional fair value hypothetical change in fair value (in millions) equity securities(1) $ 11,626 $ (1,163 ) $ 12,152 $ (1,215 ) equity-based derivatives(2) $ 68,011 (38 ) 1,917 $ 73,138 69 1,617 variable annuity and other living benefit feature embedded derivatives(2)(3) (8,434 ) (1,355 ) (8,182 ) (1,193 ) net estimated potential loss $ (601 ) $ (791 ) 165 table of contents __________ (1) includes equity securities classified as trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities and other equity securities classified as trading securities under u.s. gaap, but are held for other than trading activities in our segments that offer insurance, retirement and annuities products. (2) the notional and fair value of equity-based derivatives and the fair value of variable annuity and other living benefit feature embedded derivatives are also reflected in amounts under market risk related to interest rates above, and are not cumulative. (3) excludes any offsetting impact of derivative instruments purchased to hedge changes in the embedded derivatives. amounts reported net of third-party reinsurance. market risk related to foreign currency exchange rates as a u.s.-based company with significant business operations outside of the u.s., particularly in japan, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk related to these operations, as well as in our general account investment portfolio and other proprietary investment portfolios. for our international insurance operations, changes in foreign currency exchange rates create risk that we may experience volatility in the u.s. dollar-equivalent earnings and equity of these operations. we actively manage this risk through various hedging strategies, including the use of foreign currency hedges and through holding u.s. dollar-denominated securities in the investment portfolios of certain of these operations. additionally, our japanese insurance operations offer a variety of non-yen denominated products which are supported by investments in corresponding currencies. while these non-yen denominated assets are economically matched, the accounting may differ for changes in the value of these assets and liabilities due to moves in foreign currency exchange rates, resulting in volatility in reported u.s. gaap earnings. beginning in 2015 we have mitigated this volatility through the implementation of a new structure in gibraltar life that disaggregated the u.s. and australian dollar-denominated businesses into separate divisions, each with its own functional currency that aligns with the underlying products and investments. for certain of our international insurance operations outside of japan, we elect to not hedge the risk of changes in our equity investments due to foreign exchange rate movements. for further information, see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations international insurance division impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements on earnings u.s. gaap earnings impact of products denominated in non-local currencies above. for our domestic general account investment portfolios supporting our u.s. insurance operations and other proprietary investment portfolios, our foreign currency exchange rate risk arises primarily from investments that are denominated in foreign currencies. we manage this risk by hedging substantially all domestic foreign currency denominated fixed income investments into u.s. dollars. we generally do not hedge all of the foreign currency risk of our investments in equity securities of unaffiliated foreign entities. we manage our foreign currency exchange rate risks within specified policy limits, and estimate our exposure, excluding equity in our japanese insurance operations, to a hypothetical 10% change in foreign currency exchange rates. the following table sets forth the net estimated potential loss in fair value from such a change as of december 31, 2015 and 2014. while these scenarios are for illustrative purposes only and do not reflect our expectations regarding future changes in foreign exchange markets, they represent reasonably possible near-term hypothetical changes that illustrate the potential impact of such events. as of december 31, 2015 as of december 31, 2014 fair value hypothetical change in fair value fair value hypothetical change in fair value (in millions) unhedged portion of equity investment in international subsidiaries and foreign currency denominated investments in domestic general account portfolio $ 3,934 $ (393 ) $ 4,726 $ (473 ) for additional information, see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations general account investments portfolio composition and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations results of operations by segment international insurance division above. derivatives we use derivative financial instruments primarily to reduce market risk from changes in interest rates, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates, including their use to alter interest rate or foreign currency exposures arising from mismatches between assets and liabilities. our derivatives primarily include swaps, futures, options and forward contracts that are exchange-traded or contracted in the otc market. 166 table of contents our derivatives also include interest rate guarantees we provide on our synthetic guaranteed investment contract ( gic ) products. synthetic gics simulate the performance of traditional insurance-related gics but are accounted for as derivatives under u.s. gaap due to the fact that the policyholders own the underlying assets, and we only provide a book value wrap on the customers' funds, which are held in a client-owned trust. since these wraps provide payment of guaranteed principal and interest to the customer, changes in interest rates create risk that declines in the market value of customers' funds would increase our net exposure to these guarantees; however, our obligation is limited to payments that are in excess of the existing customers' fund value. additionally, we have the ability to periodically reset crediting rates, subject to a 0% minimum floor, as well as the ability to increase prices. further, our contract provisions provide that, although participants may withdraw funds at book value, contractholder withdrawals may only occur at market value immediately, or at book value over time. these factors, among others, result in these contracts experiencing minimal changes in fair value, despite a more significant notional value. our derivatives also include those that are embedded in certain financial instruments, and primarily relate to certain optional living benefit features associated with our variable annuity products, as discussed in more detail in market risk related to certain variable annuity products below. for additional information on our derivative activities, see note 21 to the consolidated financial statements below. market risk related to certain variable annuity products the primary risk exposures of our variable annuity contracts relate to actual deviations from, or changes to, the assumptions used in the original pricing of these products, including capital markets assumptions, such as equity market returns, interest rates and market volatility and actuarial assumptions. for our capital markets assumptions, we manage our exposure to the risk created by capital markets fluctuations through a combination of product design elements, such as an automatic rebalancing element and inclusion of certain optional living benefits in our living benefits hedging program. in addition, we consider external reinsurance a form of risk mitigation. certain variable annuity optional living benefit features are accounted for as an embedded derivative and recorded at fair value. the market risk sensitivities associated with u.s. gaap values of both the embedded derivatives and the related derivatives used to hedge the changes in fair value of these embedded derivatives are provided under market risk related to interest rates and market risk related to equity prices above. for additional information regarding our risk management strategies, including our living benefit hedging program and other product design elements, see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations results of operations by segment individual annuities above. 167 table of contentsrisk factors 30 risk factors you should carefully consider the following risks. these risks are not exclusive, and additional risks to which we are subject include, but are not limited to, the factors mentioned under forward-looking statements above and the risks of our businesses described elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k. many of these risks are interrelated and could occur under similar business and economic conditions, and the occurrence of certain of them may in turn cause the emergence or exacerbate the effect of others. such a combination could materially increase the severity of the impact of these risks on our businesses, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. risks relating to economic and market conditions market fluctuations and general economic and market conditions may adversely affect our business and profitability. our businesses and our results of operations may be materially adversely affected by conditions in the global financial markets and by economic conditions generally. even under relatively favorable market conditions, our insurance, annuity and investment products, as well as our investment returns and our access to and cost of financing, are sensitive to fixed income, equity, real estate and other market fluctuations and general economic, market and political conditions. these fluctuations and conditions could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and liquidity, including in the following respects: the profitability of many of our insurance and annuity products depends in part on the value of the separate accounts supporting these products, which can fluctuate substantially depending on the foregoing conditions. 30 table of contents market conditions resulting in reductions in the value of assets we manage or lower transaction volume have an adverse effect on the revenues and profitability of our asset management business, which depends on fees related primarily to the value of assets under management or transaction volume, and could decrease the value of our strategic investments. a change in market conditions, such as high inflation and high interest rates, could cause a change in consumer sentiment and behavior adversely affecting sales and persistency of our savings and protection products. conversely, low inflation and low interest rates could cause persistency of these products to vary from that anticipated and adversely affect profitability (as further described below). similarly, changing economic conditions and unfavorable public perception of financial institutions can influence customer behavior, including increasing claims or surrenders in certain product lines. sales of our investment-based and asset management products and services may decline, and lapses and surrenders of certain insurance products and withdrawals of assets from investment products may increase if a market downturn, increased market volatility or other market conditions result in customers becoming dissatisfied with their investments or products. a market decline could further result in guaranteed minimum benefits contained in many of our variable annuity products being higher than current account values or our pricing assumptions would support, requiring us to materially increase reserves for such products, and may cause customers to retain contracts in force in order to benefit from the guarantees, thereby increasing their cost to us. any increased cost may or may not be offset by the favorable impact of greater persistency from prolonged fee streams. our valuation of the liabilities for the minimum benefits contained in many of our variable annuity products requires us to consider the market perception of our risk of non-performance, and a decrease in our own credit spreads resulting from ratings upgrades or other events or market conditions could cause the recorded value of these liabilities to increase, which in turn could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. market conditions determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection we purchase. accordingly, we may be forced to incur additional expenses for reinsurance or may not be able to obtain sufficient reinsurance on acceptable terms which could adversely affect the profitability of future business or our willingness to write future business. derivative instruments we hold to hedge and manage foreign exchange risk, interest rate and equity risks associated with our products and businesses, and other risks might not perform as intended or expected resulting in higher realized losses and unforeseen stresses on liquidity. market conditions can limit availability of hedging instruments, require us to post additional collateral, and also further increase the cost of executing product related hedges and such costs may not be recovered in the pricing of the underlying products being hedged. our derivative-based hedging strategies also rely on the performance of counterparties to such derivatives. these counterparties may fail to perform for various reasons resulting in losses on uncollateralized positions. we have significant investment and derivative portfolios, including but not limited to corporate and asset-backed securities, foreign government securities (primarily those of the japanese government), equities and commercial real estate. economic conditions as well as adverse capital market conditions, including a lack of buyers in the marketplace, volatility, credit spread changes, benchmark interest rate changes, changes in foreign currency exchange rates and declines in value of underlying collateral may impact the credit quality, liquidity and value of our investments and derivatives, potentially resulting in higher capital charges and unrealized or realized losses. valuations may include assumptions or estimates that may have significant period to period changes which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. opportunities for investment of available funds at appropriate returns may be limited, including due to the current low interest rate environment, a diminished securitization market or other factors, with possible negative impacts on our overall results. limited opportunities for attractive investments may lead to holding cash for long periods of time and increased use of derivatives for duration management and other portfolio management purposes. the increased use of derivatives may increase the volatility of our u.s. gaap results and our statutory capital. regardless of market conditions, certain investments we hold, including private bonds, commercial mortgages and alternative asset classes (such as private equity, hedge funds and real estate) are relatively illiquid. if we needed to sell these investments, we may have difficulty doing so in a timely manner at a price that we could otherwise realize. certain features of our products and components of investment strategies depend on active and liquid markets, and, if market liquidity is strained or the capacity of the financial markets to absorb our transactions is inadequate, these products may not perform as intended. fluctuations in our operating results as well as realized gains and losses on our investment and derivative portfolios may impact the company's tax profile and its ability to optimally utilize tax attributes. disruptions in individual market sectors within our investment portfolio could result in significant realized and unrealized losses. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations general account investments general account investments of pfi excluding closed block division for a discussion of our exposure to certain market sectors. 31 table of contents our investments, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by developments in the global economy, in the u.s. economy (including as a result of actions by the federal reserve with respect to monetary policy, and adverse political developments), and in the japanese economy (including due to the effects of inflation or deflation, interest rate volatility, changes in the japan sovereign credit rating, and material changes in the value of the japanese yen relative to the u.s. dollar). global, u.s. or japanese economic activity and financial markets may in turn be negatively affected by adverse developments or conditions in specific geographical regions. interest rate fluctuations or prolonged periods of low interest rates could adversely affect our businesses and profitability and require us to increase reserves or statutory capital and subject us to additional collateral posting requirements. our insurance and annuity products and certain of our investment products, and our investment returns, are sensitive to interest rate fluctuations, and changes in interest rates could adversely affect our investment returns and results of operations, including in the following respects: some of our products expose us to the risk that changes in interest rates will reduce the spread between the amounts that we are required to pay under the contracts and the rate of return we are able to earn on our general account investments supporting the contracts. when interest rates decline or remain low, as they have in recent years, we have to invest in lower-yielding instruments, potentially reducing net investment income and constraining our ability to offer certain products. since many of our policies and contracts have guaranteed minimum interest crediting rates or limit the resetting of interest rates, the spreads could decrease or go negative. when interest rates rise, we may not be able to replace the assets in our general account as quickly with the higher-yielding assets needed to fund the higher crediting rates necessary to keep these products and contracts competitive. in addition, rising interest rates could cause a decline in the market value of fixed income assets the company manages which in turn could result in lower asset management fees earned. changes in interest rates can also result in potential losses in our investment activities in which we borrow funds and purchase investments to earn additional spread income on the borrowed funds. when interest rates rise, policy loans and surrenders and withdrawals of life insurance policies and annuity contracts may increase as policyholders seek to buy products with perceived higher returns, requiring us to sell investment assets potentially resulting in realized investment losses, or requiring us to accelerate the amortization of deferred acquisition costs ( dac ), deferred sales inducements ( dsi ) or value of business acquired ( voba ). in addition, increasing interest rates could cause capital strain due to lower solvency margin levels of our japanese insurance subsidiaries because the carrying value of bonds classified as available-for-sale would decline while the carrying value of liabilities would generally remain unchanged. also, an increase in interest rates accompanied by unexpected extensions of certain lower-yielding investments could reduce our profitability. changes in interest rates could subject us to increased collateral posting requirements related to hedging activities associated with some of our products. changes in interest rates coupled with greater than expected client withdrawals for certain products can result in increased costs associated with our guarantees. changes in interest rates could increase our costs of financing. our mitigation efforts with respect to interest rate risk are primarily focused on maintaining an investment portfolio with diversified maturities that has a key rate duration profile that is approximately equal to the key rate duration profile of our estimated liability cash flow profile; however, this estimate of the liability cash flow profile is complex and could turn out to be inaccurate, especially when markets are volatile. in addition, there are practical and capital market limitations on our ability to accomplish this matching. due to these and other factors we may need to liquidate investments prior to maturity at a loss in order to satisfy liabilities or be forced to reinvest funds in a lower rate environment. although we take measures to manage the economic risks of investing in a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to effectively mitigate, and we may sometimes choose based on economic considerations and other factors not to fully mitigate, the interest rate risk of our assets relative to our liabilities. for certain of our products, a delay between the time we make changes in interest rate and other assumptions used for product pricing and the time we are able to reflect these assumptions in products available-for-sale could negatively impact the long-term profitability of products sold during the intervening period. 32 table of contents recent periods have been characterized by low interest rates. a prolonged period during which interest rates remain at levels lower than those anticipated in our pricing may result in greater costs associated with certain of our product features which guarantee death benefits or income streams for stated periods or for life; higher costs for derivative instruments used to hedge certain of our product risks; or shortfalls in investment income on assets supporting policy obligations, each of which may require us to record charges to increase reserves. in addition to compressing spreads and reducing net investment income, such an environment may cause policies to remain in force for longer periods than we anticipated in our pricing, potentially resulting in greater claims costs than we expected and resulting in lower overall returns on business in force. reflecting these impacts in recoverability and loss recognition testing under u.s. gaap may require us to accelerate the amortization of dac, dsi or voba as noted above, as well as to increase required reserves for future policyholder benefits. in addition, certain statutory capital and reserve requirements are based on formulas or models that consider interest rates, and a period of declining or low interest rates may increase the statutory capital we are required to hold as well as the amount of assets we must maintain to support statutory reserves. adverse capital market conditions could significantly affect our ability to meet liquidity needs, our access to capital and our cost of capital, including capital that may be required by our subsidiaries. under such conditions, we may seek additional debt or equity capital but may be unable to obtain it. adverse capital market conditions could affect the availability and cost of borrowed funds and could impact our ability to refinance existing borrowings, thereby ultimately impacting our profitability and ability to support or grow our businesses. we need liquidity to pay our operating expenses, interest and maturities on our debt and dividends on our capital stock. during times of market stress, our internal sources of liquidity may prove to be insufficient and some of our alternative sources of liquidity, such as commercial paper issuance, securities lending and repurchase arrangements and other forms of borrowings in the capital markets, may be unavailable to us. disruptions, uncertainty and volatility in the financial markets may force us to delay raising capital, issue shorter tenor securities than would be optimal, bear an unattractive cost of capital or be unable to raise capital at any price, which could decrease our profitability and significantly reduce our financial flexibility. we may seek additional debt or equity financing to satisfy our needs; however, the availability of additional financing depends on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the availability of credit, and our credit ratings and credit capacity. we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. actions we might take to access financing may in turn cause rating agencies to reevaluate our ratings. further, any future equity offerings would dilute the ownership interest of existing shareholders. disruptions in the capital markets could adversely affect our ability to access sources of liquidity, as well as threaten to reduce our capital below a level that is consistent with our existing ratings objectives. therefore, we may need to take actions, which may include but are not limited to: (1) access contingent sources of capital and liquidity available through our capital protection framework; (2) further access other external sources of capital, including the debt or equity markets; (3) reduce or eliminate future share repurchases or shareholder dividends; (4) undertake additional capital management activities, including reinsurance transactions; (5) limit or curtail sales of certain products and/or restructure existing products; (6) undertake further asset sales or internal asset transfers; (7) seek temporary or permanent changes to regulatory rules; and (8) maintain greater levels of cash balances or for longer periods thereby reducing investment returns. certain of these actions may require regulatory approval and/or agreement of counterparties which are outside of our control or have economic costs associated with them. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect our profitability, financial condition and cash flows, as well as increase the volatility of our results of operations under u.s. gaap. as a u.s.-based company with significant business operations outside the u.s., particularly in japan, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange risks that could reduce the u.s. dollar-equivalent earnings and equity of these operations. we enter into derivative contracts in order to hedge the future income of certain of our international subsidiaries. further, our japanese subsidiaries hold u.s. dollar-denominated assets as a way for us to mitigate the effect of fluctuations in the yen exchange rate on our u.s. dollar-equivalent equity in these subsidiaries. we seek to mitigate volatility in the local solvency margins of our japanese subsidiaries due to holding these u.s. dollar-denominated investments by entering into inter-company currency derivatives. conversely, a significant strengthening of the yen could adversely impact the value of our hedges and u.s. dollar-denominated investments held in our japanese subsidiaries and could result in additional liquidity or capital needs for our international insurance operations. further currency fluctuations could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows or financial condition as a result of these derivative positions or due to foreign income or equity investments that are not hedged. 33 table of contents we hold investments denominated in foreign currencies in the general account of our domestic insurance subsidiaries. we generally seek to hedge this foreign currency exposure but there is no assurance that we will fully hedge this exposure or that such hedges will be effective. the value and liquidity of our foreign currency investments could be adversely affected by local market, economic and financial conditions. for example, our investments denominated in euro could be adversely affected by unfavorable economic conditions in europe, including due to potential changes in the euro or to the structure or membership of the european union, and in 2016 we experienced volatility in u.k. and european union related investments as a result of the u.k.'s referendum to exit the european union. risks relating to estimates, assumptions and valuations our profitability may decline if mortality experience, morbidity experience or policyholder behavior experience differ significantly from our pricing expectations. we set prices for many of our insurance and annuity products based upon assumptions for mortality rates (the likelihood of death or the likelihood of survival), morbidity rates (the likelihood of sickness or disability), and improvement trends in mortality and morbidity of our policyholders. in addition to the potential effect of natural or man-made disasters, significant changes in mortality or morbidity could emerge gradually over time, due to changes in the natural environment, the health habits of the insured population, treatment patterns and technologies for disease or disability, the economic environment, or other factors. in addition, technological and medical advances may affect how consumers investigate and purchase products, and in the future consumers may be informed by confidential genetic information or mortality projections that are not available to us. pricing of our insurance and annuity products is also based in part upon policyholder behavior. for example, persistency (the probability that a policy or contract will remain in force) within our annuities business may be significantly impacted by the value of guaranteed minimum benefits contained in many of our variable annuity products being higher than current account values in light of poor equity market performance or extended periods of low interest rates as well as other factors. persistency could be adversely affected generally by developments affecting client perception of us, including perceptions arising from adverse publicity. many of our products also provide our customers with wide flexibility with respect to the amount and timing of premium deposits and the amount and timing of withdrawals from the policy's value. results may vary based on differences between actual and expected premium deposits and withdrawals for these products, especially if these product features are relatively new to the marketplace. the pricing of certain of our variable annuity products that contain certain living benefit guarantees is also based on assumptions about utilization rates, or the percentage of contracts that will utilize the benefit during the contract duration, including the timing of the first lifetime income withdrawal. results may vary based on differences between actual and expected benefit utilization. the development of a secondary market for life insurance, including life settlements or viaticals and investor owned life insurance, and third-party investor strategies in the annuities business, could adversely affect the profitability of existing business and our pricing assumptions for new business. although some of our products permit us to increase premiums or adjust other charges and credits during the life of the policy or contract, the adjustments permitted under the terms of the policies or contracts may not be sufficient to maintain profitability or may cause the policies or contracts to lapse. for example, for our long-term care insurance products, our assumptions for reserves for future policy benefits have factored in an estimate of the timing and amount of anticipated and yet-to-be-filed premium increases which will require state approval. our actual experience obtaining pricing increases could be materially different than what we have assumed, resulting in further policy liability increases which could be material. many of our products do not permit us to increase premiums or adjust other charges and credits or limit those adjustments during the life of the policy or contract. even if permitted under the policy or contract, we may not be able or willing to raise premiums or adjust other charges sufficiently, or at all, for regulatory or competitive reasons. accordingly, significant deviations in actual experience from our pricing assumptions could have an adverse effect on the profitability of our products. if our reserves for future policyholder benefits and expenses are inadequate, we may be required to increase our reserves, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 34 table of contents we establish reserves in accordance with u.s. gaap for future policyholder benefits and expenses. while these reserves generally exceed our best estimate of the liability for future benefits and expenses, if we conclude based on updated assumptions that our reserves, together with future premiums, are insufficient to cover future policy benefits and expenses, including unamortized dac, dsi or voba, we would need to accelerate the amortization of these dac, dsi or voba balances and then increase our reserves and incur income statement charges, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. the determination of our best estimate of the liability is based on data and models that include many assumptions and projections which are inherently uncertain and involve the exercise of significant judgment, including the levels and timing of receipt or payment of premiums, benefits, expenses, interest credits and investment results (including equity market returns), which depend on actual mortality, morbidity and policyholder behavior. we cannot determine with precision the ultimate amounts that we will pay for, or the timing of payment of, actual benefits and expenses or whether the assets supporting our policy liabilities, together with future premiums, will be sufficient for payment of benefits and expenses. if we conclude that our reserves, together with future premiums, are insufficient to cover future policy benefits and expenses, we may seek to increase premiums or charges where we are able to do so. updated assumptions may also require us to increase u.s. gaap reserves for the guarantees in certain long-duration contracts. for certain of our products, market performance and interest rates (as well as the regulatory environment, as discussed further below) impact the level of statutory reserves and statutory capital we are required to hold, and may have an adverse effect on profitability and returns on capital associated with these products. we may be required to accelerate the amortization of dac, dsi or voba, or recognize impairment in the value of certain investments, or be required to establish a valuation allowance against deferred income tax assets, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. dac represents the costs that vary with and are directly related to the acquisition of new and renewal insurance and investment contracts, and we amortize these costs over the expected lives of the contracts. dsi represents amounts that are credited to a policyholder's account balance as an inducement to purchase the contract, and we amortize these costs over the expected lives of the contracts. voba is an intangible asset which represents an adjustment to the stated value of acquired inforce insurance contract liabilities to present them at fair value, determined as of the acquisition date. management, on an ongoing basis, tests the dac, dsi and voba recorded on our balance sheet to determine if these amounts are recoverable under current assumptions. in addition, we regularly review the estimates and assumptions underlying dac, dsi and voba for those products for which we amortize dac, dsi and voba in proportion to gross profits or gross margins. given changes in facts and circumstances, these tests and reviews could lead to reductions in dac, dsi and/or voba that could have an adverse effect on the results of our operations and our financial condition. among other things, significant or sustained equity market declines as well as investment losses could result in acceleration of amortization of the dac, dsi and voba related to variable annuity and variable universal life contracts, resulting in a charge to income. as discussed earlier, the amortization of dac, dsi and voba are also sensitive to changes in interest rates. we have operating equity method investments within our international insurance and asset management segments and corporate and other operations. declines in the fair value of these investments may require that we review the remaining carrying value of these investments for potential impairment, and such review could result in impairments and charges to income. deferred income tax represents the tax effect of the differences between the book and tax basis of assets and liabilities. deferred tax assets are assessed periodically by management to determine if they are realizable. factors in management's determination include the performance of the business including the geographic and legal entity source of our income, the ability to generate capital gains from a variety of sources, and tax planning strategies. if based on available information, it is more likely than not that the deferred income tax asset will not be realized then a valuation allowance must be established with a corresponding charge to net income. such charges could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. our valuation of fixed maturity, equity and trading securities may include methodologies, estimations and assumptions that are subject to differing interpretations and could result in changes to investment valuations that may materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. during periods of market disruption, it may be difficult to value certain of our investment securities if trading becomes less frequent or market data becomes less observable. there may be cases where certain assets in normally active markets with significant observable data become inactive with insufficient observable data due to the current financial environment or market conditions. in addition, the fair value of certain securities may be based on one or more significant unobservable inputs even in ordinary market conditions. as a result, valuations may include inputs and assumptions that require greater estimation and judgment as well as valuation methods which are more complex. these values may not be ultimately realizable in a market transaction, and such values may change very rapidly as market conditions change and valuation assumptions are modified. decreases in value may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. 35 table of contents the decision on whether to record an other-than-temporary impairment or write-down is determined in part by management's assessment of the financial condition and prospects of a particular issuer, projections of future cash flows and recoverability of the particular security. management's conclusions on such assessments are highly judgmental and include assumptions and projections of future cash flows which may ultimately prove to be incorrect as assumptions, facts and circumstances change. changes in our discount rate, expected rate of return, life expectancy, health care cost and expected compensation increase assumptions for our pension and other postretirement benefit plans may result in increased expenses and reduce our profitability. we determine our pension and other postretirement benefit plan costs based on assumed discount rates, expected rates of return on plan assets, life expectancy of plan participants and expected increases in compensation levels and trends in health care costs. changes in these assumptions may result in increased expenses and reduce our profitability. credit and counterparty risks an inability to access our credit facilities could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we maintain two committed unsecured revolving credit facilities. we rely on these credit facilities as potential sources of liquidity which could be critical in enabling us to meet our obligations as they come due, particularly during periods when alternative sources of liquidity are limited. our ability to borrow under these facilities is conditioned on our satisfaction of covenants and other requirements, such as maintenance of a prescribed minimum level of consolidated net worth calculated in accordance with the respective agreement. our failure to satisfy these covenants or other requirements would restrict our access to the facilities when needed and, consequently, could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. a downgrade or potential downgrade in our financial strength or credit ratings could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. a downgrade in our financial strength or credit ratings could potentially, among other things, (1) limit our ability to market products or reduce our competitiveness, increase the number or value of policy surrenders and withdrawals, (2) increase our borrowing costs and potentially make it more difficult to borrow funds and adversely affect the availability of financial guarantees, such as letters of credit, (3) limit our ability to obtain collateralized loans from the federal home loan bank of new york that can be used as alternative sources of liquidity as described in note 14 to our consolidated financial statements, (4) cause additional collateral requirements or other required payments under certain agreements, including derivatives, and allow counterparties to terminate derivative agreements, (5) require prudential insurance to post a letter of credit in the amount of approximately $1.5 billion as described further under management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources ratings and (6) hurt our relationships with creditors, distributors, reinsurers or trading counterparties thereby potentially negatively affecting our profitability, liquidity and capital. we cannot predict what additional actions rating agencies may take, or what actions we may take in response to the actions of rating agencies, which could adversely affect our business. our ratings could be downgraded at any time and without advance notice by any rating agency. in addition, a sovereign downgrade could result in a downgrade of our subsidiaries operating in that jurisdiction, and ultimately of prudential financial and our other subsidiaries. for example, in september 2015, s&amp;p downgraded japan's sovereign rating to a+ with a 'stable' outlook citing uncertainties around the strength of economic growth and weak fiscal positions. as a result, s&amp;p subsequently lowered the ratings of a number of institutions in japan, including our japanese insurance subsidiaries. it is possible that japan's sovereign rating could be subject to further downgrades, which would result in further downgrades of our insurance subsidiaries in japan. given the importance of our operations in japan to our overall results, such downgrades could lead to a downgrade of prudential financial and our domestic insurance companies. losses due to defaults by others, including issuers of investment securities, reinsurers and derivatives counterparties, insolvencies of insurers in jurisdictions where we write business and other factors could adversely affect the value of our investments, the realization of amounts contractually owed to us, result in assessments or additional statutory capital requirements or reduce our profitability or sources of liquidity. issuers and borrowers whose securities or loans we hold, customers, vendors, trading counterparties, counterparties under swaps and other derivative contracts, reinsurers, clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses and other financial intermediaries and guarantors, including bond insurers, may default on their obligations to us or be unable to perform service functions that are significant to our business due to bankruptcy, insolvency, lack of liquidity, adverse economic conditions, operational failure, fraud or other reasons. such defaults could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 36 table of contents we use derivative instruments to hedge various risks, including certain guaranteed minimum benefits contained in many of our variable annuity products. we enter into a variety of derivative instruments, including options, forwards, interest rate, credit default and currency swaps with a number of counterparties. we also enter into reinsurance arrangements as a risk mitigation strategy for our insurance and annuity products. amounts that we expect to collect under current and future derivatives or reinsurance contracts are subject to counterparty risk. our obligations under our products are not changed by our hedging activities or reinsurance arrangements and we are liable for our obligations even if our derivative counterparties or reinsurers do not pay us. such defaults could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, ratings downgrades or financial difficulties of derivative counterparties or reinsurers may require us to utilize additional capital with respect to the impacted businesses. under state insurance guaranty association laws and similar laws in international jurisdictions, we are subject to assessments, based on the share of business we write in the relevant jurisdiction, for certain obligations of insolvent insurance companies to policyholders and claimants. our investment portfolio is subject to risks that could diminish the value of our invested assets and the amount of our investment income, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. we record unrealized gains or losses on securities classified as available-for-sale in other comprehensive income (loss), and in turn recognize gains or losses in earnings when the gain or loss is realized upon the sale of the security or in the event that the decline in estimated fair value is determined to be other-than-temporary. the occurrence of a major economic downturn, acts of corporate malfeasance, widening credit spreads, or other events that adversely affect the issuers or guarantors of securities or the underlying collateral of structured securities could cause (i) the market price of fixed maturity securities in our investment portfolio to decline, which could cause us to record gross unrealized losses, (ii) earnings on those securities to decline, which could result in lower earnings, and (iii) ultimately defaults, which could result in a charge to earnings. a ratings downgrade affecting issuers or guarantors of particular securities, or similar trends that could worsen the credit quality of our investments could also have a similar effect. in addition, a ratings downgrade affecting a security we hold could indicate the credit quality of that security has deteriorated and could increase the capital we must hold to maintain our rbc and smr levels. our non-coupon investment portfolio is subject to additional risks. we invest a portion of our investments in hedge funds and private equity funds. the amount and timing of net investment income from such funds tends to be uneven as a result of the performance of the underlying investments. the timing of distributions from such funds, which depends on particular events relating to the underlying investments, as well as the funds' schedules for making distributions and their needs for cash, can be difficult to predict. as a result, the amount of net investment income from these investments can vary substantially from quarter to quarter. significant volatility could adversely impact returns and net investment income on these investments. in addition, the estimated fair value of such investments may be impacted by downturns or volatility in equity markets. in our real estate portfolio, we are subject to declining prices or cash flows as a result of changes in the supply and demand of leasable space, creditworthiness of tenants and partners and other factors. certain product related risks guarantees within certain of our products that protect policyholders may decrease our earnings or increase the volatility of our results of operations or financial position under u.s. gaap. 37 table of contents certain of our products, particularly our variable annuity products, include guarantees of minimum surrender values or income streams for stated periods or for life, which may be in excess of account values. downturns in equity markets, increased equity volatility, or (as discussed above) reduced interest rates could result in an increase in the valuation of liabilities associated with such guarantees, resulting in increases in reserves and reductions in net income. we use a variety of hedging and risk management strategies, including product features, to mitigate these risks in part and we may periodically change our strategies over time. these strategies may, however, not be fully effective. in addition, we may be unable or may choose not to fully hedge these risks. hedging instruments may not effectively offset the costs of guarantees or may otherwise be insufficient in relation to our obligations. hedging instruments also may not change in value correspondingly with associated liabilities due to equity market or interest rate conditions, non-performance risk or other reasons. we may choose to hedge these risks on a basis that does not correspond to their anticipated or actual impact upon our results of operations or financial position under u.s. gaap. changes from period to period in the valuation of these policy benefits, and in the amount of our obligations effectively hedged, will result in volatility in our results of operations and financial position under u.s. gaap and the statutory capital levels of our insurance subsidiaries. estimates and assumptions we make in connection with hedging activities may fail to reflect or correspond to our actual long-term exposure in respect of our guarantees. further, the risk of increases in the costs of our guarantees not covered by our hedging and other capital and risk management strategies may become more significant due to changes in policyholder behavior driven by market conditions or other factors. the above factors, individually or collectively, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. in addition, the naic has outlined a framework for changing the guidance and rules governing variable annuities, including with regard to reserving, capital, accounting, derivative use limitations and disclosure, which may ultimately impact how we hedge our variable annuity risks and adversely affect our capital, financial position and results of operations. see business regulation insurance operations state insurance regulation financial regulation variable annuities. we may not be able to mitigate the reserve strain associated with regulation xxx and guideline axxx, potentially resulting in a negative impact on our capital position or in a need to increase prices and/or reduce sales of term or universal life products. the states of domicile of our domestic insurance subsidiaries have in place a regulation entitled valuation of life insurance policies, commonly known as regulation xxx, and a supporting guideline entitled the application of the valuation of life insurance policies, commonly known as guideline axxx. the regulation and supporting guideline require insurers to establish statutory reserves for term and universal life insurance policies with long-term premium guarantees at a level that exceeds what our actuarial assumptions for this business would otherwise require. we have typically financed the portion of the statutory reserves for this business that we consider to be non-economic through the use of captive reinsurance companies. as of january 1, 2015, we are subject to a new actuarial guideline known as ag 48 that affects the types of assets we can use in captive reinsurance companies to back the reserves we hold for term and universal life products. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources capital financing activities term and universal life reserve financing for a discussion of the impact of ag 48 on our life product reserves and reserve financing. we expect to have additional financing needs for certain life insurance reserves. however, if we are unsuccessful in obtaining additional financing as a result of market conditions, regulatory changes or otherwise, this could require us to increase prices, reduce our sales of certain life products, or modify certain products, any of which could adversely affect our competitiveness, capital and financial position and results of operations. see business regulatory regulation insurance operations state insurance regulation financial regulation insurance reserves and regulatory capital for information on the impact of principles based reserving on our universal life products. we may experience difficulty in marketing and distributing products through our current and future distribution channels. 38 table of contents although we distribute our products through a wide variety of distribution channels, we do maintain relationships with certain key distributors. for example, a significant amount of our sales in japan through banks is derived through a single major japanese bank and a significant portion of our sales in japan through life consultants is derived through a single association relationship. we periodically negotiate the terms of these relationships, and there can be no assurance that such terms will remain acceptable to us or such third parties. an interruption in certain key relationships could materially affect our ability to market our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. distributors may elect to reduce or terminate their distribution relationships with us, including for such reasons as adverse developments in our business, adverse rating agency actions or concerns about market-related risks. we are also at risk that key distribution partners may merge, change their business models in ways that affect how our products are sold, or terminate their distribution contracts with us, or that new distribution channels could emerge and adversely impact the effectiveness of our distribution efforts. an increase in bank and broker-dealer consolidation activity could increase competition for access to distributors, result in greater distribution expenses and impair our ability to market products through these channels. consolidation of distributors and/or other industry changes may also increase the likelihood that distributors will try to renegotiate the terms of any existing selling agreements to terms less favorable to us. we have a large captive distribution channel, in particular our life consultant network in gibraltar life, and we are subject to the risk that our monitoring and controls will not detect inappropriate sales practices or misconduct by our agents. in addition, when our products are distributed through unaffiliated firms, we may not be able to monitor or control the manner of their distribution despite our training and compliance programs. if our products are distributed in an inappropriate manner, or to customers for whom they are unsuitable, or distributors of our products otherwise engage in misconduct, we may suffer reputational and other harm to our business. regulatory and legal risks our businesses are heavily regulated and changes in regulation may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. our businesses are subject to comprehensive regulation and supervision. the purpose of this regulation is primarily to protect our customers and not necessarily our shareholders or debt holders. many of the laws and regulations to which we are subject, including those to which our international businesses are subject, are regularly re-examined, and existing or future laws and regulations may become more restrictive or otherwise adversely affect our operations. the financial market dislocations we have experienced have produced, and are expected to continue to produce, extensive changes in existing laws and regulations, and regulatory frameworks, applicable to our businesses in the u.s. and internationally. prudential financial, the holding company for all of our operations, is subject to supervision by the frb as a designated financial company pursuant to dodd-frank. as a designated financial company, prudential financial is and will be subject to substantial additional regulation as discussed further herein. in addition, the fsb identified prudential financial as a g-sii. , u.s. and japanese financial regulators have also enhanced their regulation of prudential financial to achieve a number of regulatory objectives. this additional regulation has increased our operational, compliance and risk management costs, and could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition, including potentially increasing our capital levels and requiring us to hold additional liquid assets and therefore reducing our return on capital. in 2015 njdobi became prudential financial's group-wide supervisor pursuant to legislation adopted by the state. we cannot predict what additional standards, including capital requirements, or other costs any new group-wide standards will impose on prudential financial. see business regulation insurance holding company regulation group-wide supervision. as a result of an agreement with the ny dfs regarding our reserving methodologies for certain variable annuity and life insurance products, certain of our new york licensed insurance subsidiaries hold additional statutory reserves on a new york basis, which reduces their new york statutory surplus. if we are required to establish material additional reserves on a new york statutory accounting basis or post material amounts of additional collateral with respect to annuity or insurance products, our ability to deploy capital held within our u.s. domestic insurance subsidiaries for other purposes could be affected. ag 48 may ultimately adversely affect our ability to write certain products and efficiently manage their associated risks and we may need to increase prices and/or reduce sales of certain products, modify certain products or find alternate financing sources, any of which could adversely affect our competitiveness, capital and financial position and results of operations. see business regulation insurance operations state insurance regulation captive reinsurance companies for information on ag 48, and see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources capital financing activities term and universal life reserve financing for a discussion of the impact of ag 48 on our life product reserves and reserve financing. 39 table of contents in november 2015, the naic adopted the variable annuities framework for change, which outlines the naic's commitment to change in concept the statutory framework to address concerns that have led to the development and utilization of captive reinsurance transactions for variable annuity business in order to create more consistency across regulators and remove the impetus for insurers to cede risk to captives. we cannot predict what, if any, changes may result from the variable annuities framework for change, and if applicable insurance laws are changed in a way that impairs our ability to write variable annuities and efficiently manage their associated risks, we may need to increase prices or modify our products, which could also adversely affect our competitiveness, capital and financial position and results of operations. see business regulatory regulation insurance operations state insurance regulation financial regulation variable annuities for information on the variable annuities framework for change. other naic or state insurance regulatory actions, such as the adoption of principles-based reserving or changes to rbc calculations, may adversely impact our business from time to time. see business regulatory regulation insurance operations state insurance regulation financial regulation insurance reserves and regulatory capital for information on principles based reserving, and business regulatory regulation insurance operations state insurance regulation financial regulation risk based capital for information on potential changes to rbc calculations. the failure of prudential insurance and our other domestic insurance subsidiaries to meet applicable rbc requirements or minimum statutory capital and surplus requirements could subject those subsidiaries to further examination or corrective action by state insurance regulators. the failure to maintain the rbc ratios of prudential insurance and our other domestic insurance subsidiaries at desired levels could also adversely impact our competitive position, including as a result of downgrades to our financial strength ratings. our international insurance companies are subject to conceptually similar measures of capital adequacy, including solvency margin ratios for our japanese insurance companies, and we face similar risks as those described for our domestic companies in the event that we are unable to maintain these measures at adequate levels. further, adverse financial performance in the closed block, including adverse investment performance, may adversely affect prudential insurance's rbc ratios in the short term, although dividends to closed block policyholders may be subsequently adjusted to reflect such performance. in some cases, our reserves include assumptions about the availability of government benefits that are controlled by legislative or regulatory processes. to the extent the outcomes of these processes differ from our expectations, we may experience adverse effects on our financial condition. for example, since social security disability insurance ( ssdi ) benefits are an offset to the benefits payable under group disability policies, any decrease in ssdi benefits, or changes in eligibility, could have a significant impact on the group disability market, including reserve impacts and increases in the cost of benefits. compliance with applicable laws and regulations is time consuming and personnel-intensive, and changes in these laws and regulations may materially increase our direct and indirect compliance and other expenses of doing business, and thereby have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. see business regulation for discussion of regulation of our businesses. the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act subjects us to substantial additional federal regulation and we cannot predict the effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. as a designated financial company pursuant to dodd-frank, we are subject to substantial federal regulation, much of it pursuant to regulations not yet promulgated. dodd-frank directs existing and newly-created government agencies and bodies to promulgate regulations implementing the law, a process that is underway and expected to continue over the next few years. we cannot predict the timing or requirements of the regulations not yet adopted under dodd-frank or how such regulations will impact our business, credit or financial strength ratings, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition or competitive position. furthermore, we cannot predict whether such regulations will make it advisable or require us to hold or raise additional capital or liquid assets, potentially affecting capital deployment activities, including buying back shares or paying dividends. finally, we cannot predict how president trump's february 2017 executive order outlining the administration's core principles for regulation of the financial system, or future legislation, will impact dodd-frank or the company. key aspects of dodd-frank's impact on us include: 40 table of contents as a designated financial company, prudential financial is subject to supervision and examination by the frb and to stricter prudential standards, which include or may include requirements and limitations (many of which are the subject of ongoing rule-making) relating to capital, leverage, liquidity, stress-testing, overall risk management, credit exposure reporting, early remediation, managing interlocks, credit concentration, and resolution and recovery planning. if the frb and the fdic jointly determine that our resolution plan is deficient, they may impose more stringent capital, leverage, or liquidity requirements, or restrictions on our growth, activities, or operations. any continuing failure to adequately remedy the deficiencies could result in the frb and the fdic jointly, in consultation with the council, ordering divestiture of certain operations or assets. in addition, failure to meet defined measures of financial condition could result in substantial restrictions on our business and capital distributions. dodd-frank also requires us to be subject to stress tests to be promulgated by the frb which could cause us to alter our business practices or affect the perceptions of regulators, rating agencies, customers, counterparties or investors of our financial strength. we cannot predict the requirements of the regulations not yet adopted or how the frb will apply these prudential standards to us. as a designated financial company, prudential financial must also seek pre-approval from the frb for acquisition of certain companies engaged in financial activities. as a designated financial company, we could also be subject to additional capital requirements for, and other restrictions on, proprietary trading and sponsorship of, and investment in, hedge, private equity and other covered funds. the council could recommend new or heightened standards and safeguards for activities or practices in which we and other financial services companies engage. we cannot predict whether any such recommendations will be made or their effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. dodd-frank created a new framework for regulation of the otc derivatives markets which could impact various activities of pgf, prudential financial and our subsidiaries, which use derivatives for various purposes (including hedging interest rate, foreign currency and equity market exposures). while many of the regulations required to be promulgated under dodd-frank or internationally with respect to derivatives markets have been adopted by the applicable regulatory agencies, the regulations that remain to be adopted or that have not been fully implemented could substantially increase the cost of hedging and related operations, affect the profitability of our products or their attractiveness to our clients or cause us to alter our hedging strategy or implementation thereof or increase and/or change the composition of the risks we do not hedge. in particular, we continue to monitor the potential hedging cost impacts of new initial margin requirements that we will be required to comply with in 2020, and increased capital requirements for derivatives transactions that may be imposed on banks that are our counterparties. title ii of dodd-frank provides that a financial company such as prudential financial may be subject to a special orderly liquidation process outside the federal bankruptcy code, administered by the fdic as receiver, upon a determination that the company is in default or in danger of default and presents a systemic risk to u.s. financial stability, and our u.s. insurance subsidiaries would be subject to rehabilitation and liquidation proceedings under state insurance law. we cannot predict how creditors of prudential financial or its insurance and non-insurance subsidiaries, including the holders of prudential financial debt, will evaluate this potential or whether it will impact our financing or hedging costs. see business regulation for further discussion of the impact of dodd-frank on our businesses. changes in the laws and regulations relating to retirement products and services, including the dol's new fiduciary rules, could adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. in april 2016, the dol issued new rules that redefine who will be considered a fiduciary for purposes of transactions with qualified plans, plan participants and iras. the rules generally provide that advice to a plan participant or ira owner will be treated as a fiduciary activity. we cannot predict how president trump's february 2017 direction to the dol to review the rules will impact the rules or their implementation date. overall, if enacted in their current form, the rules will result in increased compliance costs and may create increased exposure to legal claims under certain circumstances, including class actions. we believe the rules will primarily impact our individual annuities, retirement and asset management segments and our prudential advisors distribution system which we include in the results of our individual life segment. see business regulation other u.s. federal regulation dol fiduciary rule for a discussion of the expected impacts of the rules on our businesses. in addition to these impacts, our compliance with the rules could lead to a loss of customers and revenues, and otherwise adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. 41 table of contents in addition to the rules described above, lawmakers and regulatory authorities from time to time enact legislative and regulatory changes that could decrease the attractiveness of certain of our retirement products and services to retirement plan sponsors and administrators, or have an unfavorable effect on our ability to earn revenues from these products and services. over time, these changes could hinder our sales of retirement products and services. we cannot predict with any certainty the effect these legislative and regulatory changes may have on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. see business regulation investment and retirement products and asset management operations for further discussion of regulation of our businesses. foreign governmental actions could subject us to substantial additional regulation. in addition to the adoption of dodd-frank in the united states, the fsb has issued a series of proposals intended to produce significant changes in how financial companies, particularly companies that are members of large and complex financial groups, should be regulated. the fsb identified prudential financial as a g-sii. the framework policy measures for g-siis published by the iais include enhanced group-wide supervision, enhanced capital standards, enhanced liquidity planning and management, and development of a risk reduction plan and recovery and resolution plans. the iais has released bcr and hla standards that have been approved by the fsb and g20 with implementation in 2019. the iais is also developing comframe for the supervision of internationally active insurance groups that seeks to promote effective and globally-consistent supervision of the insurance industry and contribute to global financial stability through uniform standards for insurer corporate governance, enterprise risk management and other control functions, group-wide supervision and group capital adequacy which also may be adopted by the iais as early as 2019. policy measures applicable to g-siis would need to be implemented by legislation or regulation in each applicable jurisdiction. we cannot predict the impact of bcr, hla or comframe on our business, or the outcome of our identification as a g-sii on the regulation of our businesses. the lawmakers and regulatory authorities in a number of jurisdictions in which we do business have already begun enacting or considering legislative and regulatory changes consistent with g20 and fsb recommendations, including laws and proposals governing consolidated regulation of insurance holding companies set forth by the fsa in japan. in 2016 the fsa conducted a field test of a potential market based alternative to the smr framework that closely aligned with components of the iais's 2016 field test. at this time, we cannot predict what additional capital requirements, compliance costs or other burdens continued international legislative and regulatory change will impose on us. adverse market, economic and financial conditions in europe have given rise to a perceived risk of defaults on the government securities of certain european countries and potentially by financial institutions with significant direct or indirect exposure to such government securities. further regulatory initiatives may develop in response to these conditions and related political and economic events such as possible changes in the euro or to the structure or membership of the european union. in addition, we cannot predict the impact of any regulatory changes that may be enacted as a result of the u.k's approval of a non-binding referendum to exit the european union in june 2016. see business regulation regulation of our international businesses and international and global regulatory initiatives for further discussion of the impact of foreign regulation on our business. changes in accounting requirements could negatively impact our reported results of operations and our reported financial position. accounting standards are continuously evolving and subject to change. for example, the fasb has an ongoing project to revise accounting standards for long duration insurance contracts. while the final resolution of changes to u.s. gaap pursuant to this project is unclear, changes to the manner in which we account for insurance products, or other changes in accounting standards, could have a material effect on our reported results of operations and financial condition. in addition, the international accounting standards board is scheduled to release a new international financial reporting standard ( ifrs ) for insurance contracts sometime in 2017 with an expected effective date of 2021. in japan, changes in ifrs do not currently impact our operations as they are not required to report under ifrs. in korea, the local insurance regulators assess solvency based in part on financial statements prepared in accordance with ifrs. as such, the financial statement impact of changes in ifrs may increase the amount of capital required in our korean insurance operation. at the same time, the korean insurance regulator has announced plans to pursue enhancements to their capital standards and the ultimate impact on capital requirements is uncertain. further, changes in accounting standards may impose special demands in areas such as corporate governance, internal controls and disclosure, and may result in substantial conversion costs to implement. changes in u.s. federal income tax law or in the income tax laws of other jurisdictions that impact our tax profile could make some of our products less attractive to consumers and also increase our tax costs. 42 table of contents there is uncertainty regarding u.s. taxes both for individuals and corporations. discussions in washington continue concerning the need to reform the tax code, primarily by lowering tax rates and broadening the base by reducing or eliminating certain tax expenditures. overall lower effective individual tax rates could make our products less attractive to customers. it is unclear whether or when congress may take up overall tax reform and what the impact tax reform will have on the company and its products. however, even in the absence of overall tax reform, congress could enact more piecemeal tax legislation that would change the company's tax profile, make our products less competitive and adversely impact our capital position. current u.s. federal income tax laws generally permit certain holders to defer taxation on the inside build-up of investment value of annuities and life insurance products until there are contract distributions and, in general, to exclude from taxation the death benefit paid under a life insurance contract. congress from time to time considers legislation that could make our products less attractive to consumers, including legislation that would reduce or eliminate the benefit of this deferral on some annuities and insurance products. congress, as well as state and local governments, also considers from time to time legislation that could increase the amount of corporate taxes we pay, thereby reducing earnings. see business regulation other u.s. federal regulation u.s. tax legislation for examples of proposed changes that could increase our actual tax expense and reduce our consolidated net income. the products we sell have different tax characteristics, in some cases generating tax deductions and credits for the company. changes in either the u.s. or foreign tax laws may negatively impact the deductions and credits available to the company, including the ability of the company to claim foreign tax credits with respect to taxes withheld on separate account products. these changes would increase the company's actual tax expense and reduce its consolidated net income. the level of profitability of certain of our products is significantly dependent on these characteristics and our ability to continue to generate taxable income, which is taken into consideration when pricing products and is a component of our capital management strategies. accordingly, changes in tax law, our ability to generate taxable income, or other factors impacting the availability or value of the tax characteristics generated by our products could impact product pricing and returns or require us to reduce our sales of these products or implement other actions that could be disruptive to our businesses. in addition, the adoption of a principles-based approach for statutory reserves may lead to significant changes to the way tax reserves are determined and thus reduce future tax deductions. for a discussion of the impact of the tax laws outside the u.s., see other risks we have substantial international operations and our international operations face political, legal, operational and other risks that could adversely affect those operations or our profitability below. our ability to meet obligations, pay shareholder dividends, and to engage in share repurchases may be adversely affected by limitations imposed on dividends and other distributions from our subsidiaries. prudential financial is the holding company for all our operations, and dividends, returns of capital and interest income from its subsidiaries are the principal source of funds available to prudential financial to pay shareholder dividends, to make share repurchases and to meet its other obligations. these sources of funds may be complemented by prudential financial's access, if available, to the capital markets and bank facilities. as described under business regulation and note 15 to the consolidated financial statements, our domestic and foreign insurance and various other subsidiary companies, are subject to regulatory limitations on the payment of dividends and on other transfers of funds to prudential financial. in addition, our management of our subsidiaries to have capitalization consistent with their ratings objectives itself may constrain their payment of dividends. finally, dodd-frank and emerging state and international capital and other prudential standards may ultimately result in additional restrictions on transfers of funds to prudential financial, or by prudential financial to its shareholders, either to satisfy enhanced prudential standards, due to inadequate stress-test performance, or otherwise. these restrictions may limit or prevent our subsidiaries from making dividend or other payments to prudential financial, or limit or prevent prudential financial from making payments to third-parties, in an amount sufficient to fund prudential financial's obligations, shareholder dividends and share repurchases. from time to time, the naic and various state and foreign insurance regulators have considered, and may in the future consider, proposals to further limit dividend payments that an insurance company may make without regulatory approval. legal and regulatory actions are inherent in our businesses and could adversely affect our results of operations or financial position or harm our businesses or reputation. 43 table of contents we are, and in the future may be, subject to legal and regulatory actions in the ordinary course of our businesses, including in businesses that we have divested or placed in wind-down status. some of these actions relate to aspects of the company's businesses and operations that are specific to us, while others are typical of the businesses in which we operate. we face or may face lawsuits alleging, among other things, issues relating to unclaimed property procedures, the settlement of death benefit claims, breaches of fiduciary duties, violations of securities laws and employment matters. some of these proceedings have been brought on behalf of various alleged classes of complainants. in certain of these matters, the plaintiffs are seeking large and/or indeterminate amounts, including punitive or exemplary damages. in addition, many insurance regulatory and other governmental or self-regulatory bodies have the authority to review our products and business practices and those of our agents and employees and to bring regulatory or other legal actions against us if, in their view, our practices, or those of our agents or employees, are improper. these actions can result in substantial fines, penalties or prohibitions or restrictions on our business activities and could adversely affect our business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. further, the financial services industry in general has faced increased regulatory scrutiny from governmental and self-regulatory bodies conducting inquiries and investigations into various products and business practices. this regulatory scrutiny has in some cases led to proposed or final legislation and regulation that could significantly affect the financial services industry, and may ultimately result in an increased risk of regulatory penalties, settlements and litigation. legal liability or adverse publicity in respect of current or future legal or regulatory actions, whether or not involving us, could have an adverse effect on us or cause us reputational harm, which in turn could harm our business prospects. as a participant in the insurance and financial services industries, we may continue to experience a high level of legal and regulatory actions related to our businesses and operations. material pending litigation and regulatory matters affecting us, and certain risks to our businesses presented by such matters, are discussed under commitments and guarantees, contingent liabilities and litigation and regulatory matters in note 23 to the consolidated financial statements. our litigation and regulatory matters are subject to many uncertainties, and given their complexity and scope, their outcome cannot be predicted. our reserves for litigation and regulatory matters may prove to be inadequate. it is possible that our results of operations or cash flow in a particular quarterly or annual period could be materially affected by an ultimate unfavorable resolution of pending litigation and regulatory matters. in light of the unpredictability of the company's litigation and regulatory matters, it is also possible that in certain cases an ultimate unfavorable resolution of one or more pending litigation or regulatory matters could have a material adverse effect on the company's financial position. we may not be able to protect our intellectual property and may be subject to infringement claims. we rely on a combination of contractual rights with employees and third parties and on copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws to establish and protect our intellectual property. although we endeavor to protect our rights, third parties may infringe or misappropriate our intellectual property. we may have to litigate to enforce and protect our copyrights, trademarks, patents, trade secrets and know-how or to determine their scope, validity or enforceability. this would represent a diversion of resources that may be significant and our efforts may not prove successful. the inability to secure or protect our intellectual property assets could have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to compete. we may be subject to claims by third parties for (i) patent, trademark or copyright infringement; (ii) breach of copyright, trademark or license usage rights; or (iii) misappropriation of trade secrets. any such claims and any resulting litigation could result in significant expense and liability for damages. if we were found to have infringed or misappropriated a third-party patent or other intellectual property right, we could in some circumstances be enjoined from providing certain products or services to our customers or from utilizing and benefiting from certain methods, processes, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets or licenses. alternatively, we could be required to enter into costly licensing arrangements with third-parties or implement a costly work around. any of these scenarios could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. operational risks interruption in telecommunication, information technology and other operational systems, or a failure to maintain the security, confidentiality or privacy of sensitive data residing on such systems, could harm our business. we depend heavily on our telecommunication, information technology and other operational systems and on the integrity and timeliness of data we use to run our businesses and service our customers. these systems may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events or circumstances wholly or partly beyond our control. further, we face the risk of operational and technology failures by others, including clearing agents, exchanges and other financial intermediaries and of vendors and parties to which we outsource the provision of services or business operations. if these parties do not perform as anticipated, we may experience operational difficulties, increased costs and other adverse effects on our business. these risks are heightened by our offering of increasingly complex products, such as those that feature automatic rebalancing or re-allocation strategies, and by our employment of complex investment, trading and hedging programs. 44 table of contents despite our implementation of a variety of security measures, our information technology and other systems could be subject to physical or electronic break-ins, unauthorized tampering or other security breaches, resulting in a failure to maintain the security, confidentiality or privacy of sensitive data, including personal information relating to customers, or in the misappropriation of our intellectual property or proprietary information. many financial services institutions and companies engaged in data processing have reported security breaches and service disruptions related to their websites or other systems, some of which have involved sophisticated and targeted attacks intended to obtain unauthorized access to confidential information, destroy data, disrupt or degrade service, sabotage systems or cause other damage, often through the introduction of computer viruses or malware, denial-of-service attacks and other means. despite our efforts to ensure the integrity of our systems, it is possible that we may not be able to anticipate or to implement effective preventive measures against all security breaches and disruptions of these types, especially because the techniques used change frequently or are not recognized until launched, and because cyber attacks can originate from a wide variety of sources, including third-parties outside of prudential such as persons who are involved with organized crime or who may be linked to terrorist organizations or hostile foreign governments, as well as external service providers. those parties may also attempt to fraudulently induce employees, customers or other users of prudential's systems to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to our data or that of our customers or clients. in addition, while we have certain standards for all vendors that provide us services, our vendors, and in turn, their own service providers, may become subject to a security breach, including as a result of their failure to perform in accordance with contractual arrangements. security breaches or other technological failures may also result in regulatory inquiries, regulatory proceedings, regulatory and litigation costs, and reputational damage. we may incur reimbursement and other expenses, including the costs of litigation and litigation settlements and additional compliance costs. we may also incur considerable expenses in enhancing and upgrading computer systems and systems security following such a failure. interruption in telecommunication, information technology and other operational systems, or a failure to maintain the security, confidentiality or privacy of sensitive data residing on such systems, whether due to actions by us or others, could delay or disrupt our ability to do business and service our customers, harm our reputation, result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws, subject us to substantial regulatory sanctions and other claims, lead to a loss of customers and revenues or financial loss to our customers and otherwise adversely affect our business. see business regulation privacy regulation and cybersecurity for a discussion of privacy and cybersecurity regulation and regulatory proposals impacting our business. we face risks arising from acquisitions, divestitures and restructurings, including client losses, surrenders and withdrawals, difficulties in executing, integrating and realizing the projected results of acquisitions and contingent liabilities with respect to dispositions. we face a number of risks arising from acquisition transactions, including the risk that, following the acquisition or reorganization of a business, we could experience client losses, surrenders or withdrawals or other results materially different from those we anticipate. we may also experience difficulties in executing previously-announced transactions, and integrating and realizing the projected results of acquisitions and restructurings and managing the litigation and regulatory matters to which acquired entities are party. we have retained insurance or reinsurance obligations and other contingent liabilities in connection with our divestiture or winding down of various businesses, and our reserves for these obligations and liabilities may prove to be inadequate. these risks may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. other risks our risk management policies and procedures may prove to be ineffective and leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk, which could adversely affect our businesses or result in losses. we have developed an enterprise-wide risk management framework to mitigate risk and loss to the company, and we maintain policies, procedures and controls intended to identify, measure, monitor, report and analyze the risks to which the company is exposed. 45 table of contents there are, however, inherent limitations to risk management strategies because there may exist, or develop in the future, risks that we have not appropriately anticipated or identified. if our risk management framework proves ineffective, the company may suffer unexpected losses and could be materially adversely affected. as our businesses change and the markets in which we operate evolve, our risk management framework may not evolve at the same pace as those changes. as a result, there is a risk that new products or new business strategies may present risks that are not appropriately identified, monitored or managed. in times of market stress, unanticipated market movements or unanticipated claims experience resulting from adverse mortality, morbidity or policyholder behavior, the effectiveness of our risk management strategies may be limited, resulting in losses to the company. in addition, under difficult or less liquid market conditions, our risk management strategies may not be effective because other market participants may be using the same or similar strategies to manage risk under the same challenging market conditions. in such circumstances, it may be difficult or more expensive for us to mitigate risk due to the activity of such other market participants. many of our risk management strategies or techniques are based upon historical customer and market behavior and all such strategies and techniques are based to some degree on management's subjective judgment. we cannot provide assurance that our risk management framework, including the underlying assumptions or strategies, will be accurate and effective. management of operational, legal and regulatory risks requires, among other things, policies, procedures and controls to record properly and verify a large number of transactions and events, and these policies, procedures and controls may not be fully effective. models are utilized by our businesses and corporate areas primarily to project future cash flows associated with pricing products, calculating reserves and valuing assets, as well as in evaluating risk and determining capital requirements, among other uses. these models may not operate properly and may rely on assumptions and projections that are inherently uncertain. as our businesses continue to grow and evolve, the number and complexity of models we utilize expands, increasing our exposure to error in the design, implementation or use of models, including the associated input data and assumptions. past or future misconduct by our employees or employees of our vendors could result in violations of law by us, regulatory sanctions and/or serious reputational or financial harm and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. there can be no assurance that controls and procedures that we employ, which are designed to monitor associates' business decisions and prevent us from taking excessive or inappropriate risks, will be effective. we review our compensation policies and practices as part of our overall risk management program, but it is possible that our compensation policies and practices could inadvertently incentivize excessive or inappropriate risk taking. if our associates take excessive or inappropriate risks, those risks could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. in our investments in which we hold a minority interest, or that are managed by third parties, we lack management and operational control over operations, which may subject us to additional operational, compliance and legal risks and prevent us from taking or causing to be taken actions to protect or increase the value of those investments. in those jurisdictions where we are constrained by law from owning a majority interest in jointly owned operations, our remedies in the event of a breach by a joint venture partner may be limited (e.g., we may have no ability to exercise a call option). the occurrence of natural or man-made disasters could adversely affect our operations, results of operations and financial condition. the occurrence of natural disasters, including hurricanes, floods, earthquakes, tsunamis, tornadoes, fires, explosions, pandemic disease and man-made disasters, including acts of terrorism and military actions, could adversely affect our operations, results of operations or financial condition, including in the following respects: catastrophic loss of life due to natural or man-made disasters could cause us to pay benefits at higher levels and/or materially earlier than anticipated and could lead to unexpected changes in persistency rates. a man-made or natural disaster, such as an earthquake in japan, could result in disruptions in our operations, losses in our investment portfolio or the failure of our counterparties to perform, or cause significant volatility in global financial markets. a terrorist attack affecting financial institutions in the u. s. or elsewhere could negatively impact the financial services industry in general and our business operations, investment portfolio and profitability in particular. pandemic disease could have a severe adverse effect on prudential financial's business. the potential impact of such a pandemic on prudential financial's results of operations and financial position is variable, and would depend on numerous factors, including the effectiveness of vaccines and the rate of contagion, the regions of the world most affected and the effectiveness of treatment for the infected population. 46 table of contents the above risks are more pronounced in respect of geographic areas, including major metropolitan centers, where we have concentrations of customers, including under group and individual life insurance, concentrations of employees or significant operations, and in respect of countries and regions in which we operate subject to a greater potential threat of military action or conflict. ultimate losses would depend on the rates of mortality and morbidity among various segments of the insured population, the collectability of reinsurance, the possible macroeconomic effects on our asset portfolio, the effect on lapses and surrenders of existing policies, as well as sales of new policies and other variables. there can be no assurance that our business continuation plans and insurance coverages would be effective in mitigating any negative effects on our operations or profitability in the event of a terrorist attack or other disaster. finally, climate change may increase the frequency and severity of weather related disasters and pandemics. in addition, climate change regulation may affect the prospects of companies and other entities whose securities we hold, or our willingness to continue to hold their securities. it may also impact other counterparties, including reinsurers, and affect the value of investments, including real estate investments we hold or manage for others. we cannot predict the long-term impacts on us from climate change or related regulation. we have substantial international operations and our international operations face political, legal, operational and other risks that could adversely affect those operations or our profitability. a substantial portion of our revenues and income from continuing operations is derived from our operations outside the u.s., primarily japan and korea. some of these operations are subject to restrictions on transferring funds out of the countries in which they are located. some of our foreign insurance and investment management operations are, and are likely to continue to be, in emerging markets where this risk, as well as risks of discriminatory regulation, labor issues in connection with workers' associations and trade unions, price controls, currency exchange controls, nationalization or expropriation of assets, are heightened. if our business model is not successful in a particular country, we may lose all or most of our investment in building and training our sales force in that country. many of our insurance products sold in international markets, including japan, provide for the buildup of cash values for the policyholder at contractually fixed guaranteed interest rates. actual returns on the underlying investments may not necessarily support the guaranteed interest rates and there may be times when the spread between the actual investment returns and these guaranteed rates of return to the policyholder is negative. this negative spread may not be offset by the mortality, morbidity and expense charges we earn on the products, and will likely be exacerbated in prolonged periods of low interest rates. our international businesses are subject to the tax laws and regulations of the countries in which they are organized and in which they operate. foreign governments from time to time consider legislation that could increase the amount of taxes that we pay or impact the sales of our products. such changes could negatively impact sales of our products or reduce our profits. our international operations are regulated in the jurisdictions in which they are located or operate. these regulations may apply heightened scrutiny to non-domestic companies, which can reduce our flexibility as to intercompany transactions, investments and other aspects of business operations and adversely affect our liquidity, profitability, and regulatory capital. finally, we use affiliates and third-party vendors located outside the u.s. to provide certain services and functions, which also exposes us to business disruptions and political risks as a result of risks inherent in conducting business outside of the u.s. intense competition, including the impact of government sponsored programs and other actions on us and our competitors, could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our market share or profitability. in each of our businesses we face intense competition from insurance companies, asset managers and diversified financial institutions, both for the ultimate customers for our products and, in many businesses, for distribution through non-affiliated distribution channels. we compete based on a number of factors including brand recognition, reputation, quality of service, quality of investment advice, investment performance of our products, product features, scope of distribution and distribution arrangements, price, perceived financial strength and credit and financial strength ratings. a decline in our competitive position as to one or more of these factors could adversely affect our profitability and assets under management. 47 table of contents many of our competitors are large and well-established and some have greater market share or breadth of distribution, offer a broader range of products, services or features, assume a greater level of risk, have lower profitability expectations or have higher financial strength or credit ratings than we do. the proliferation and growth of non-affiliated distribution channels puts pressure on our captive sales channels to increase their productivity and reduce their costs in order to remain competitive, and we run the risk that the marketplace will make a more significant or rapid shift to non-affiliated or direct distribution alternatives than we anticipate or are able to achieve ourselves, potentially adversely affecting our market share and results of operations. in addition, technological advances, changing customer expectations, including related to digital offerings, or other changes in the marketplace may present opportunities for new or smaller competitors without established products or distribution channels to meet consumers' increased expectations more efficiently than us. in certain international markets in which we operate, we face competition from government owned entities that benefit from pricing or other competitive advantages. the competitive landscape in which we operate may be further affected by government sponsored programs and longer term fiscal policies. competitors that receive governmental financing or other assistance or subsidies, including governmental guarantees of their obligations, may have or obtain pricing or other competitive advantages. competitors that are not subject to the same regulatory framework may also have a pricing advantage, including as a result of lower capital requirements. competition for personnel in all of our businesses is intense, including for executive officers and management personnel, agents within prudential advisors, life planners, life consultants and other sales personnel, and our investment managers. we devote significant efforts to talent management and development and are subject to the risk that executive, management and other personnel will be hired or recruited by competitors. competition for desirable non-affiliated distribution channels is also intense. the loss of key personnel or non-affiliated distribution channels could have an adverse effect on our business and profitability. at an enterprise level, prudential financial is one of three designated financial companies in the insurance industry. this additional regulation has resulted in increased operational, compliance and risk management costs, and may result in further impacts if we are ultimately required to increase our capital levels or hold additional liquid assets relative to our competitors. regulatory requirements could delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that shareholders might consider in their best interests. insurance regulatory authorities in the various jurisdictions in which our insurance companies are domiciled, including new jersey and japan, must approve any change of control of prudential financial or the insurance companies organized under their laws. federal and state banking laws also generally require regulatory approval for a change in control of prudential financial or pb&amp;t. the u.s. federal securities laws could also require reapproval by customers of our investment advisory contracts to manage mutual funds, including mutual funds included in annuity products, upon a change in control. the new jersey business corporation act prohibits certain business combinations with interested shareholders. dodd-frank concentration limits also impose restrictions on the acquisition of designated financial companies where the resulting entity's total liabilities exceed 10% of total u.s. financial company liabilities, which may prohibit certain companies from acquiring prudential financial. in addition, the frb must approve any acquisition by a designated financial company of more than 5% of the voting stock of a company engaged in financial activities with $10 billion or more in assets, such as prudential financial. these regulatory and other restrictions may delay or prevent a potential merger or sale of prudential financial, even if the board of directors decides that it is in the best interests of shareholders to merge or be sold. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 162 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. insurance risk management we define insurance risk as the risk of loss due to deviations in experience compared to our assumptions. our exposure is primarily comprised of: mortality risk, or the risk that death claims are greater than expected, primarily within our individual life, group insurance and international insurance segments, or the risk that policyholders survive longer than expected, primarily within our retirement, individual annuities and international insurance segments; morbidity risk, or the risk that health claims from sickness or disability are greater than expected, primarily within our group insurance and international insurance segments as well as from long-term care policies within divested businesses; and 160 table of contents policyholder behavior risk, or the risk that our customers' persistency experience or utilization experience differs from our expectations. underwriting insurance risk is a fundamental part of our business. we believe our scale provides for the benefits of diversification, both within an insurance risk type (potentially enhancing predictability of experience) and across insurance risk types (for example, mortality trend risk benefits from a potential natural hedge between life and annuity blocks). insurance risk mitigation begins with product design, as well as underwriting and pricing standards at the business unit level with corporate oversight. in some cases, the availability and/or credibility of policyholder behavior experience may be limited, which we strive to reflect in the product design and pricing of the product. processes are in place to ensure corporate oversight of the material insurance risk assumptions utilized in pricing and valuation. operational risk management operational risk is defined as the risk of direct or indirect loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes and systems, employee actions, or as the result of external events. operational risks are broad in scope and evident in each business unit and corporate function. we are exposed to operational risk in many ways, including, but not limited to: legal and regulatory compliance risk sales practices risk fraud (internal and external) risk reputational risk employee risk technology risk, including data security, system failures and processing errors financial reporting risk extreme events risk, such as loss of people and/or infrastructure caused by natural disasters, terrorism, disease, etc. information risk vendor risk each of our businesses and corporate functions is expected to manage its operational risks in compliance with enterprise standards. our framework for identifying, evaluating, monitoring and managing operational risk includes: risk management committees; key risk indicators; risk and control assessments; loss event data collection and analysis; and resolution of control issues. we also have enterprise policies and standards, including: legal and regulatory/compliance policies, such as those relating to sales practices and supervision, fraud prevention, safeguarding of personal information, protection and use of material non-public information, personal conflicts of interest and outside business activities, anti-money laundering, and gifts and entertainment; human resources policies, such as those relating to hiring, training and terminating the employment of our associates and succession planning; and information technology policies, including those on systems development and information security. we also maintain policies and standards to support the effective management of operational risk, including those concerning new product development, business continuation and disaster recovery, enterprise crisis management,vendor governance and privacy. our internal audit department independently audits key operational controls on a periodic basis to assess the effectiveness of our framework. in order to respond to the threat of security breaches and cyber attacks, we have developed a program overseen by the chief information security officer and the information security office that is designed to protect and preserve the confidentiality, integrity, and continued availability of all information owned by, or in the care of the company. as part of this program, we also maintain an incident response plan. the program provides for the coordination of various corporate functions and governance groups, and serves as a framework for the execution of responsibilities across businesses and operational roles. the program establishes security standards for our technological resources, and includes training for employees, contractors and third parties. as part of the program, we conduct periodic exercises and a response readiness assessment with outside advisors to gain a third-party independent assessment of our technical program and our internal response preparedness. we regularly engage with the outside security community and monitor cyber threat information. we are also exposed to emerging risks, such as those conditions, situations or trends that may significantly impact us in the future. by nature, these risks involve a high degree of uncertainty. erm, together with our businesses, monitors and evaluates emerging risks on a regular basis. model risk management 161 table of contents models are utilized by our businesses and corporate functions primarily in projecting future cash flows associated with pricing products, calculating reserves and valuing assets, as well as in evaluating risk and determining capital requirements, among other uses. as our businesses continue to grow and evolve, the number and complexity of models we utilize expands, increasing our exposure to error in the design, implementation or use of models, including the associated input data and assumptions. we are mitigating this risk by implementing our model risk policy, which outlines the governance and control requirements over the implementation and use of models, and through the activities of our model risk oversight committee which provides oversight and guidance on issues relating to model risk and the management of that risk. for further information on the risks to which the company is exposed, see item. 1a risk factors. item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk market risk is defined as the risk of loss from changes in interest rates, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates resulting from asset/liability mismatches where the change in the value of our liabilities is not offset by the change in value of our assets. for additional information regarding the potential impacts of interest rate and other market fluctuations, as well as general economic and market conditions on our businesses and profitability, see item 1a. risk factors above. for additional information regarding the overall management of our general account investments and our asset mix strategies, see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations general account investments management of investments above. for additional information regarding our liquidity and capital resources, which may be impacted by changing market risks, see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources above. market risk management management of market risk, which we consider to be a combination of both investment risk and market risk exposures as described in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations risk management above, includes the identification and measurement of various forms of risk, the establishment of risk thresholds and the creation of processes intended to maintain risks within these thresholds while optimizing returns on the underlying assets or liabilities. risk range limits are established for each type of market risk and are approved by the investment committee of the board of directors and subject to ongoing review. our risk management process utilizes a variety of tools and techniques, including: measures of price sensitivity to market changes (e.g., interest rates, equity index prices, foreign exchange); asset/liability mismatch analytics; stress scenario testing; hedging programs; and risk management governance, including policies, limits, and a committee that oversees investment and market risk. for additional information regarding our overall risk management framework and governance structure, see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations risk management above. market risk mitigation risk mitigation takes three primary forms: asset/liability management: managing assets to liability-based measures. for example, investment policies identify target durations for assets based on liability characteristics and asset portfolios are managed to within ranges around them. this mitigates potential unanticipated economic losses from interest rate movements. hedging non-strategic exposures. for example, our investment policies for our general account portfolios generally require hedging currency risk for cash flows not offset by similarly denominated liabilities. management of portfolio concentration risk. for example, ongoing monitoring and management at the enterprise level of key rate, currency and other concentration risks support diversification efforts to mitigate exposure to individual markets and sources of risk. 162 table of contents market risk related to interest rates we perform liability-driven investing and engage in careful asset/liability management. asset/liability mismatches create the risk that changes in liability values will differ from the changes in the value of the related assets. additionally, changes in interest rates may impact other items including, but not limited to, the following: net investment spread between the amounts that we are required to pay and the rate of return we are able to earn on investments for certain products supported by general account investments; asset-based fees earned on assets under management or contractholder account values; estimated total gross profits and the amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs; net exposure to the guarantees provided under certain products; and capital levels of our regulated entities. we use duration and convexity analyses to measure price sensitivity to interest rate changes. duration measures the relative sensitivity of the fair value of a financial instrument to changes in interest rates. convexity measures the rate of change of duration with respect to changes in interest rates. we use asset/liability management and derivative strategies to manage our interest rate exposure by legal entity by matching the relative sensitivity of asset and liability values to interest rate changes, or controlling duration mismatch of assets and liabilities. we have duration mismatch constraints tailored to the rate sensitivity of products in each entity. in certain markets, primarily outside the u.s. and japan, capital market limitations that hinder our ability to acquire assets that approximate the duration of some of our liabilities are considered in setting the limits. as of december 31, 2016 and 2015 , the difference between the duration of assets and the target duration of liabilities in our duration-managed portfolios was within our policy limits. we consider risk-based capital and tax implications as well as current market conditions in our asset/liability management strategies. we assess the impact of interest rate movements on the value of our financial assets, financial liabilities and derivatives using hypothetical test scenarios that assume either upward or downward 100 basis point parallel shifts in the yield curve from prevailing interest rates, reflecting changes in either credit spreads or the risk-free rate. the following table sets forth the net estimated potential loss in fair value on these financial instruments from a hypothetical 100 basis point upward shift as of december 31, 2016 and 2015 . this table is presented on a gross basis and excludes offsetting impacts to insurance liabilities that are not considered financial liabilities under u.s gaap. this scenario results in the greatest net exposure to interest rate risk of the hypothetical scenarios tested at those dates. while the test scenario is for illustrative purposes only and does not reflect our expectations regarding future interest rates or the performance of fixed income markets, it is a near-term, reasonably possible hypothetical change that illustrates the potential impact of such events. these test scenarios do not measure the changes in value that could result from non-parallel shifts in the yield curve which we would expect to produce different changes in discount rates for different maturities. as a result, the actual loss in fair value from a 100 basis point change in interest rates could be different from that indicated by these calculations. the estimated changes in fair values do not include separate account assets. 163 table of contents as of december 31, 2016 as of december 31, 2015 notional fair value hypothetical change in fair value notional fair value hypothetical change in fair value (in millions) financial assets with interest rate risk: fixed maturities(1) $ 347,246 $ (33,171 ) $ 322,207 $ (27,832 ) commercial mortgage and other loans 54,283 (2,626 ) 51,853 (2,369 ) derivatives with interest rate risk: swaps $ 209,406 7,097 (5,415 ) $ 219,511 8,423 (5,960 ) futures 32,555 49 (995 ) 28,538 10 (131 ) options 25,403 166 284 89,107 232 (868 ) forwards 21,530 (519 ) (20 ) 17,809 204 (5 ) synthetic gics 77,197 5 (1 ) 72,585 7 0 variable annuity and other living benefit feature embedded derivatives(2) (8,238 ) 5,386 (8,434 ) 5,072 financial liabilities with interest rate risk(3): short-term and long-term debt (21,079 ) 3,049 (22,522 ) 3,214 policyholders' account balances investment contracts (100,045 ) 3,570 (94,271 ) 3,302 net estimated potential loss $ (29,939 ) $ (25,577 ) __________ (1) includes fixed maturities classified as trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities and other fixed maturities classified as trading securities under u.s. gaap, but are held for other than trading activities in our segments that offer insurance, retirement and annuities products. includes approximately $345 billion and $320 billion as of december 31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively, of fixed maturities classified as available-for-sale , where unrealized gains and losses are recorded in aoci. (2) excludes any offsetting impact of derivative instruments purchased to hedge changes in the embedded derivatives. amounts reported net of third-party reinsurance. (3) excludes approximately $286 billion and $267 billion as of december 31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively, of insurance reserve and deposit liabilities which are not considered financial liabilities. we believe that the interest rate sensitivities of these insurance liabilities would serve as an offset to the net interest rate risk of the financial assets and liabilities, including investment contracts. under u.s. gaap, the fair value of the embedded derivatives for certain variable annuity and other living benefit features, reflected in the table above, includes the impact of the market's perception of our own npr. the additional credit spread over libor rates incorporated into the discount rate as of december 31, 2016 , to reflect npr in the valuation of these embedded derivatives, ranged from 25 to 150 basis points. the following table provides a demonstration of the sensitivity of these embedded derivatives to our npr credit spread by quantifying the adjustments that would be required assuming both a 50 basis point parallel increase and decrease in our npr credit spreads. while the information below is for illustrative purposes only and does not reflect our expectations regarding our credit spreads, it is a near-term, reasonably possible change that illustrates the potential impact of such a change. this information considers only the direct effect of changes in our credit spread on operating results due to the change in these embedded derivatives, and not changes in any other assumptions such as persistency, utilization and mortality, or the effect of these changes on dac or other balances. december 31, 2016 december 31, 2015 (increase) / decrease in embedded derivative liability (increase) / decrease in embedded derivative liability (in millions) increase in credit spread by 50 basis points $ 1,964 $ 1,714 decrease in credit spread by 50 basis points $ (1,726 ) $ (2,047 ) for an additional discussion of our variable annuity optional living benefit guarantees accounted for as embedded derivatives and related derivatives used to hedge the changes in fair value of these embedded derivatives, see market risk related to certain variable annuity products below. for additional information about the key estimates and assumptions used in our determination of fair value, see note 20 to the consolidated financial statements below. for information on the impacts of a sustained low interest rate environment, see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations executive summary impact of a low interest rate environment above. market risk related to equity prices 164 table of contents we have exposure to equity risk through asset/liability mismatches, including our investments in equity securities held in our general account investment portfolio and unhedged exposure in our insurance liabilities, principally related to certain variable annuity living benefit feature embedded derivatives. our equity-based derivatives primarily hedge the equity risk embedded in these living benefit feature embedded derivatives, and are also part of our capital hedging program. changes in equity prices create risk that the resulting changes in asset values will differ from the changes in the value of the liabilities relating to the underlying or hedged products. additionally, changes in equity prices may impact other items including, but not limited to, the following: asset-based fees earned on assets under management or contractholder account value; estimated total gross profits and the amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs; and net exposure to the guarantees provided under certain products. we manage equity risk against benchmarks in respective markets. we benchmark our return on equity holdings against a blend of market indices, mainly the s&amp;p 500 and russell 2000 for u.s. equities. we benchmark foreign equities against the tokyo price index, and the msci eafe, a market index of european, australian, and far eastern equities. we target price sensitivities that approximate those of the benchmark indices. we estimate our equity risk from a hypothetical 10% decline in equity benchmark market levels. the following table sets forth the net estimated potential loss in fair value from such a decline as of december 31, 2016 and 2015 . while these scenarios are for illustrative purposes only and do not reflect our expectations regarding future performance of equity markets or of our equity portfolio, they represent near-term reasonably possible hypothetical changes that illustrate the potential impact of such events. these scenarios consider only the direct impact on fair value of declines in equity benchmark market levels and not changes in asset-based fees recognized as revenue, changes in our estimates of total gross profits used as a basis for amortizing deferred policy acquisition and other costs, or changes in any other assumptions such as market volatility or mortality, utilization or persistency rates in our variable annuity contracts that could also impact the fair value of our living benefit features. in addition, these scenarios do not reflect the impact of basis risk, such as potential differences in the performance of the investment funds underlying the variable annuity products relative to the market indices we use as a basis for developing our hedging strategy. the impact of basis risk could result in larger differences between the change in fair value of the equity-based derivatives and the related living benefit features in comparison to these scenarios. in calculating these amounts, we exclude separate account equity securities. as of december 31, 2016 as of december 31, 2015 notional fair value hypothetical change in fair value notional fair value hypothetical change in fair value (in millions) equity securities(1) $ 12,139 $ (1,214 ) $ 11,626 $ (1,163 ) equity-based derivatives(2) $ 31,558 (285 ) 1,137 $ 68,011 (38 ) 1,917 variable annuity and other living benefit feature embedded derivatives(2)(3) (8,238 ) (1,116 ) (8,434 ) (1,355 ) net estimated potential loss $ (1,193 ) $ (601 ) __________ (1) includes equity securities classified as trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities and other equity securities classified as trading securities under u.s. gaap, but are held for other than trading activities in our segments that offer insurance, retirement and annuities products. (2) the notional and fair value of equity-based derivatives and the fair value of variable annuity and other living benefit feature embedded derivatives are also reflected in amounts under market risk related to interest rates above, and are not cumulative. (3) excludes any offsetting impact of derivative instruments purchased to hedge changes in the embedded derivatives. amounts reported net of third-party reinsurance. market risk related to foreign currency exchange rates as a u.s.-based company with significant business operations outside of the u.s., particularly in japan, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk related to these operations, as well as in our general account investment portfolio and other proprietary investment portfolios. 165 table of contents for our international insurance operations, changes in foreign currency exchange rates create risk that we may experience volatility in the u.s. dollar-equivalent earnings and equity of these operations. we actively manage this risk through various hedging strategies, including the use of foreign currency hedges and through holding u.s. dollar-denominated securities in the investment portfolios of certain of these operations. additionally, our japanese insurance operations offer a variety of non-yen denominated products which are supported by investments in corresponding currencies. while these non-yen denominated assets are economically matched to the currency of the product liabilities, the accounting treatment may differ for changes in the value of these assets and liabilities due to moves in foreign currency exchange rates, resulting in volatility in reported u.s. gaap earnings. this volatility has been mitigated by disaggregating the u.s. and australian dollar-denominated businesses in gibraltar life into separate divisions, each with its own functional currency that aligns with the underlying products and investments. for certain of our international insurance operations outside of japan, we elect to not hedge the risk of changes in our equity investments due to foreign exchange rate movements. for further information, see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations impact of foreign currency exchange rates impact of products denominated in non-local currencies on u.s. gaap earnings above. for our domestic general account investment portfolios supporting our u.s. insurance operations and other proprietary investment portfolios, our foreign currency exchange rate risk arises primarily from investments that are denominated in foreign currencies. we manage this risk by hedging substantially all domestic foreign currency denominated fixed income investments into u.s. dollars. we generally do not hedge all of the foreign currency risk of our investments in equity securities of unaffiliated foreign entities. we manage our foreign currency exchange rate risks within specified limits, and estimate our exposure, excluding equity in our japanese insurance operations, to a hypothetical 10% change in foreign currency exchange rates. the following table sets forth the net estimated potential loss in fair value from such a change as of december 31, 2016 and 2015. while these scenarios are for illustrative purposes only and do not reflect our expectations regarding future changes in foreign exchange markets, they represent reasonably possible near-term hypothetical changes that illustrate the potential impact of such events. as of december 31, 2016 as of december 31, 2015 fair value hypothetical change in fair value fair value hypothetical change in fair value (in millions) unhedged portion of equity investment in international subsidiaries and foreign currency denominated investments in domestic general account portfolio $ 5,003 $ (500 ) $ 3,934 $ (393 ) for additional information, see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations general account investments portfolio composition and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations results of operations by segment international insurance division above. derivatives we use derivative financial instruments primarily to reduce market risk from changes in interest rates, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates, including their use to alter interest rate or foreign currency exposures arising from mismatches between assets and liabilities. our derivatives primarily include swaps, futures, options and forward contracts that are exchange-traded or contracted in the otc market. our derivatives also include interest rate guarantees we provide on our synthetic gic products. synthetic gics simulate the performance of traditional insurance-related gics but are accounted for as derivatives under u.s. gaap due to the fact that the policyholders own the underlying assets, and we only provide a book value wrap on the customers' funds, which are held in a client-owned trust. since these wraps provide payment of guaranteed principal and interest to the customer, changes in interest rates create risk that declines in the market value of customers' funds would increase our net exposure to these guarantees; however, our obligation is limited to payments that are in excess of the existing customers' fund value. additionally, we have the ability to periodically reset crediting rates, subject to a 0% minimum floor, as well as the ability to increase prices. further, our contract provisions provide that, although participants may withdraw funds at book value, contractholder withdrawals may only occur at market value immediately, or at book value over time. these factors, among others, result in these contracts experiencing minimal changes in fair value, despite a more significant notional value. 166 table of contents our derivatives also include those that are embedded in certain financial instruments, and primarily relate to certain optional living benefit features associated with our variable annuity products, as discussed in more detail in market risk related to certain variable annuity products below. for additional information on our derivative activities, see note 21 to the consolidated financial statements below. market risk related to certain variable annuity products the primary risk exposures of our variable annuity contracts relate to actual deviations from, or changes to, the assumptions used in the original pricing of these products, including capital markets assumptions, such as equity market returns, interest rates and market volatility and actuarial assumptions. for our capital markets assumptions, we manage our exposure to the risk created by capital markets fluctuations through a combination of product design elements, such as an automatic rebalancing element and inclusion of certain optional living benefits in our living benefits hedging program. in addition, we consider external reinsurance a form of risk mitigation. certain variable annuity optional living benefit features are accounted for as an embedded derivative and recorded at fair value. the market risk sensitivities associated with u.s. gaap values of both the embedded derivatives and the related derivatives used to hedge the changes in fair value of these embedded derivatives are provided under market risk related to interest rates and market risk related to equity prices above. for additional information regarding our risk management strategies, including our living benefit hedging program and other product design elements, see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations results of operations by segment individual annuities above. 167 table of contentsrisk factors 30 risk factors you should carefully consider the following risks. these risks are not exclusive, and additional risks to which we are subject include, but are not limited to, the factors mentioned under forward-looking statements above and the risks of our businesses described elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k. many of these risks are interrelated and could occur under similar business and economic conditions, and the occurrence of certain of them may in turn cause the emergence or exacerbate the effect of others. such a combination could materially increase the severity of the impact of these risks on our businesses, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. overview on an annual basis, the company reviews its risk identification framework which documents the definition, potential manifestation, and management of its risks. these risk factors describe the company's material risks and their potential manifestation, as reflected in the risk identification framework. the company's risk management framework is described under management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations risk management. the company has categorized its risks into tactical and strategic risks. tactical risks may cause damage to the company, and the company seeks to manage and mitigate them through models, metrics and the overall risk framework. the company's tactical risks include investment, insurance, market, liquidity, and operational risk. strategic risks can cause the company's fundamental business model to change, either through a shift in the businesses in which it is engaged or a change in execution. the company's strategic risks include regulatory, technological changes and other external factors. these risks, as well as the sub-risks that may impact the company, are discussed below. investment risk our investment portfolios are subject to the risk of loss due to default or deterioration in credit quality or value. 30 table of contents we are exposed to investment risk through our investments, which primarily consist of public and private fixed maturity securities, commercial mortgage and other loans, equity securities and alternative assets including private equity, hedge funds and real estate. for a discussion of our general account investments, see management's discussion and analysis of results of operations and financial condition general account investments. we are also exposed to investment risk through a potential counterparty default. investment risk may result from (1) economic conditions, (2) adverse capital market conditions, including disruptions in individual market sectors or a lack of buyers in the marketplace, (3) volatility, (4) credit spread changes, (5) benchmark interest rate changes, (6) changes in foreign currency exchange rates and (7) declines in value of underlying collateral. these factors may impact the credit quality, liquidity and value of our investments and derivatives, potentially resulting in higher capital charges and unrealized or realized losses. also, certain investments we hold, regardless of market conditions, are relatively illiquid and our ability to promptly sell these assets for their full value may be limited. additionally, our valuation of investments may include methodologies, inputs and assumptions which are subject to change and different interpretation and could result in changes to investment valuations that may materially impact our results of operations or financial condition. for information about the valuation of our investments, see note 20 to the consolidated financial statements. our investment portfolio is subject to credit risk, which is the risk that an obligor (or guarantor) is unable or unwilling to meet its contractual payment obligations on its fixed maturity security, loan or other obligations. credit risk may manifest in an idiosyncratic manner (i.e., specific to an individual borrower or industry) or through market-wide credit cycles. financial deterioration of the obligor increases the risk of default and may increase the capital charges required under such regimes as the naic rbc, the fsa smr or other constructs to hold the investment and in turn, potentially limit our overall capital flexibility. credit defaults (as well as credit impairments, realized losses on credit-related sales, and increases in credit related reserves) may result in losses which adversely impact earnings, capital and our ability to appropriately match our liabilities and meet future obligations. our company is subject to counterparty risk, which is the risk that the counterparty to a transaction could default or deteriorate in creditworthiness before or at the final settlement of a transaction . in the normal course of business, we enter into financial contracts to manage risks (such as derivatives to manage market risk and reinsurance treaties to manage insurance risk), improve the return on investments (such as securities lending and repurchase transactions) and provide sources of liquidity or financing (such as credit agreements, securities lending agreements and repurchase agreements). these transactions expose the company to counterparty risk. counterparties include commercial banks, investment banks, broker-dealers and insurance and reinsurance companies. in the event of a counterparty deterioration or default, the magnitude of the losses will depend on then current market conditions and the length of time required to enter into a replacement transaction with a new counterparty. losses are likely to be higher under stressed conditions. our investment portfolio is subject to equity risk, which is the risk of loss due to deterioration in market value of public equity or alternative assets . we include public equity and alternative assets (including private equity, hedge funds and real estate) in our portfolio constructions, as these asset classes can provide cash flows over longer periods of time, aligning with the emergence of cash flows of our liabilities. public equity and alternative assets have varying degrees of price transparency. equities traded on stock exchanges (public equities) have significant price transparency, as transactions are often required to be disclosed publicly. assets for which price transparency is more opaque include private equity (joint ventures/limited partnerships) and direct real estate. as these investments typically do not trade on public markets and indications of realizable market value may not be readily available, valuations can be infrequent and/or more volatile. a sustained decline in public equity and alternative markets may reduce the returns earned by our investment portfolio through lower than expected dividend income, property operating income, and capital gains, thereby adversely impacting earnings, capital, and product pricing assumptions. these assets may also produce volatility in earnings as a result of uneven distributions on the underlying investments. insurance risk 31 table of contents we have significant liabilities for policyholders benefits which are subject to insurance risk. insurance risk is the risk that actual experience deviates adversely from our best estimate insurance assumptions, including mortality, morbidity, and policyholder behavior assumptions . we provide a variety of insurance products, on both an individual and group basis, that are designed to help customers protect against a variety of financial uncertainties. our insurance products protect customers against their potential risk of loss by transferring those risks to the company, where those risks can be managed more efficiently through pooling and diversification over a larger number of independent exposures. during this transfer process, we assume the risk that actual losses experienced in our insurance products deviates significantly from what we expect. more specifically, insurance risk is concerned with the deviations that impact our future liabilities. our profitability may decline if mortality experience, morbidity experience or policyholder behavior experience differ significantly from our expectations when we price our products. in addition, if we experience higher than expected claims our liquidity position may be adversely impacted, and we may incur losses on investments if we are required to sell assets in order to pay claims. if it is necessary to sell assets at a loss, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted. for a discussion of the impact of changes in insurance assumptions on our financial condition, see management's discussion and analysis of results of operations and financial condition accounting policies and pronouncements application of critical accounting estimates policyholder liabilities. certain of our insurance products are subject to mortality risk, which is the risk that actual deaths experienced deviate adversely from our expectations . mortality risk is a biometric risk that can manifest in the following ways: mortality calamity is the risk that mortality rates in a single year deviate adversely from what is expected as the result of pandemics, natural or man-made disasters, military actions or terrorism. a mortality calamity event will reduce our earnings and capital and we may be forced to liquidate assets before maturity in order to pay the excess claims. mortality calamity risk is more pronounced in respect of geographic areas (including major metropolitan centers, where we have concentrations of customers, including under group and individual life insurance), concentrations of employees or significant operations, and in respect of countries and regions in which we operate that are subject to a greater potential threat of military action or conflict. ultimate losses would depend on several factors, including the rates of mortality and morbidity among various segments of the insured population, the collectability of reinsurance, the possible macroeconomic effects on our investment portfolio, the effect on lapses and surrenders of existing policies, as well as sales of new policies and other variables. mortality trend is the risk that mortality improvements in the future deviate adversely from what is expected. mortality trend is a long-term risk in that can emerge gradually over time. longevity products, such as annuities and pension risk transfer, experience adverse impacts due to higher-than-expected mortality improvement. mortality products, such as life insurance, experience adverse impacts due to lower-than-expected improvement. if this risk were to emerge, the company would update assumptions used to calculate reserves for inforce business, which may result in additional assets needed to meet the higher expected annuity claims or earlier expected life claims. an increase in reserves due to revised assumptions has an immediate impact on our results of operations and financial condition; however, economically the impact is generally long term as the excess outflow is paid over time. mortality base is the risk that actual base mortality deviates adversely from what is expected in pricing and valuing our products. base mortality risk can arise from a lack of credible data on which to base the assumptions. certain of our insurance products are subject to morbidity risk, which is the risk that either incidence or continuation experience deviates adversely from what is expected . morbidity risk is a biometric risk that can manifest in the following ways: morbidity incidence is the risk that the rate at which policyholders become unhealthy (and qualify for benefits under insurance policies) deviates adversely from what is expected. we are primarily exposed to morbidity incidence risk through short-term disability products, long-term disability products, long-term care products, and the accident and health products we sell in japan. morbidity continuation is the risk that the length of time for which policyholders remain unhealthy deviates adversely from what is expected. this risk is primarily in our disability and long-term care products. in each case, an increase in claims, or an increase in reserves due to revised morbidity assumptions can have an immediate impact on our results of operations and financial condition; however, economically the impact of morbidity risk for products that pay out for ongoing illness or disability generally emerges over the longer term as the morbidity claims are paid. certain of our insurance products are subject to policyholder behavior risk, which is the risk that actual policyholder behavior deviates adversely from what is expected. policyholder behavior risk includes the following components: 32 table of contents lapse calamity is the risk that lapse rates over the short-term deviate adversely from what is expected. only certain products are exposed to this risk. products that offer a cash surrender value that resides in the general account, such as general account stable value products, could pose a potential short-term lapse calamity risk. surrender of these products can impact liquidity, and it may be necessary in certain market conditions to sell assets to meet surrender demands. lapse calamity can also impact our earnings through its impact on estimated future profits. policyholder behavior efficiency is the risk that the behavior of our customers or policyholders deviates adversely from what is expected. policyholder behavior efficiency risk arises through product features which provide some degree of choice or flexibility for the policyholder, which can impact the amount and/or timing of claims. such choices include lapse, partial withdrawal, policy loan, utilization, and premium payment rates for contracts with flexible premiums. while some behavior is driven by macro factors such as market movements, policyholder behavior at a fundamental level is driven primarily by policyholders' individual needs, which may differ significantly from product to product depending on many factors including the features offered, the approach taken to market each product, and competitor pricing. for example, persistency (the probability that a policy or contract will remain in force) within our annuities business may be significantly impacted by the value of guaranteed minimum benefits contained in many of our variable annuity products being higher than current account values in light of poor market performance as well as other factors. many of our products also provide our customers with wide flexibility with respect to the amount and timing of premium deposits and the amount and timing of withdrawals from the policy's value. results may vary based on differences between actual and expected premium deposits and withdrawals for these products, especially if these product features are relatively new to the marketplace. the pricing of certain of our variable annuity products that contain certain living benefit guarantees is also based on assumptions about utilization rates, or the percentage of contracts that will utilize the benefit during the contract duration, including the timing of the first lifetime income withdrawal. results may vary based on differences between actual and expected benefit utilization. finally, surrenders of certain insurance products may increase following a downgrade of our financial strength ratings or adverse publicity. policyholder behavior efficiency is generally a long-term risk that emerges over time. an increase in reserves due to revised assumptions has an immediate impact on our results of operations and financial condition; however, from an economic or cash flow perspective, the impact is generally long term as the excess outflow is paid over time. our ability to reprice products is limited, and may not compensate for deviations from our expected insurance assumptions. although some of our products permit us to increase premiums or adjust other charges and credits during the life of the policy or contract, the adjustments permitted under the terms of the policies or contracts may not be sufficient to maintain profitability or may cause the policies or contracts to lapse. for example, for our long-term care insurance products, our assumptions for reserves for future policy benefits have factored in an estimate of the timing and amount of anticipated and yet-to-be-filed premium increases which will require state approval. our actual experience obtaining pricing increases could be materially different than what we have assumed, resulting in further policy liability increases which could be material. many of our products do not permit us to increase premiums or adjust other charges and credits or limit those adjustments during the life of the policy or contract. even if permitted under the policy or contract, we may not be able or willing to raise premiums or adjust other charges sufficiently, or at all. accordingly, significant deviations in actual experience from our pricing assumptions could have an adverse effect on the profitability of our products. finally, the development of a secondary market for life insurance, including life settlements or viaticals and investor owned life insurance, and third-party investor strategies in the annuities business, could adversely affect the profitability of existing business and our pricing assumptions for new business. market risk the profitability of many of our insurance and annuity products, as well as the fees we earn in our investment management business, are subject to market risk. market risk is the risk of loss from changes in interest rates, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates. the profitability of many of our insurance and annuity products depends in part on the value of the separate accounts supporting these products, which can fluctuate substantially depending on market conditions. market conditions resulting in reductions in the value of assets we manage has an adverse effect on the revenues and profitability of our investment management business, which depends on fees related primarily to the value of assets under management, and could decrease the value of our strategic investments. 33 table of contents derivative instruments we use to hedge and manage foreign exchange, interest rate and equity market risks associated with our products and businesses, and other risks might not perform as intended or expected, resulting in higher than expected realized losses and stresses on liquidity. market conditions can limit availability of hedging instruments, require us to post additional collateral, and further increase the cost of executing product related hedges and such costs may not be recovered in the pricing of the underlying products being hedged. market risk may limit opportunities for investment of available funds at appropriate returns, including due to the current low interest rate environment, or other factors, with possible negative impacts on our overall results. limited opportunities for attractive investments may lead to holding cash for long periods of time and increased use of derivatives for duration management and other portfolio management purposes. the increased use of derivatives may increase the volatility of our u.s. gaap results and our statutory capital. our investments, results of operations and financial condition may also be adversely affected by developments in the global economy, in the u.s. economy (including as a result of actions by the federal reserve with respect to monetary policy, and adverse political developments), and in the japanese economy (including due to the effects of inflation or deflation, interest rate volatility, changes in the japan sovereign credit rating, and material changes in the value of the japanese yen relative to the u.s. dollar). global, u.s. or japanese economic activity and financial markets may in turn be negatively affected by adverse developments or conditions in specific geographical regions. for a discussion of the impact of changes in market conditions on our financial condition see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. our insurance and annuity products and certain of our investment products, and our investment returns, are subject to interest rate risk, which is the risk of loss arising from asset/liability duration mismatches within our general account investments as well as invested assets of other entities and operations . the risk of mismatch in asset/liability duration is mainly driven by the specific dynamics of product liabilities. some product liabilities are expected to have only modest risk related to interest rates because cash flows can be matched by available assets in the investable space. the interest rate risk emerges primarily from their tail cash flows (30 years or more), which cannot be matched by assets for sale in the marketplace, exposing the company to future reinvestment risk. market-sensitive cash flows exist with other product liabilities including products whose cash flows can be linked to market performance through secondary guarantees, minimum crediting rates, and/or changes in insurance assumptions. our exposure to interest rates can manifest itself over years as in the case of earnings compression or in the short term by creating volatility in both earnings and capital. for example, some of our products expose us to the risk that changes in interest rates will reduce the spread between the amounts that we are required to pay under the contracts and the rate of return we are able to earn on our general account investments supporting the contracts. when interest rates decline or remain low, as they have in recent years, we must invest in lower-yielding instruments, potentially reducing net investment income and constraining our ability to offer certain products. this risk is increased as more policyholders may retain their policies in a low rate environment. since many of our policies and contracts have guaranteed minimum crediting rates or limit the resetting of crediting rates, the spreads could decrease or go negative. alternatively, when interest rates rise, we may not be able to replace the assets in our general account as quickly with the higher-yielding assets needed to fund the higher crediting rates necessary to keep these products and contracts competitive. it is possible that fewer policyholders may retain their policies and annuity contracts as they pursue higher crediting rates, which could expose the company to losses and liquidity stress. in addition, rising interest rates could cause a decline in the market value of fixed income assets the company manages which in turn could result in lower asset management fees earned. our mitigation efforts with respect to interest rate risk are primarily focused on maintaining an investment portfolio with diversified maturities that has a key rate duration profile that is approximately equal to the key rate duration profile of our estimated liability cash flow profile; however, this estimate of the liability cash flow profile is complex and could turn out to be inaccurate, especially when markets are volatile. in addition, there are practical and capital market limitations on our ability to accomplish this matching. due to these and other factors we may need to liquidate investments prior to maturity at a loss in order to satisfy liabilities or be forced to reinvest funds in a lower rate environment. 34 table of contents our significant business operations outside the u.s. subject us to foreign exchange risk, which is the risk of loss arising from assets that are invested in a different currency than the related liability, as well as the unhedged portion of the company's earnings from, and capital supporting, operations in a foreign currency . as a u.s.-based company with significant business operations outside of the u.s., particularly in japan, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk related to these operations, as well as in our investment portfolio. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect our profitability, financial condition and cash flows, as well as increase the volatility of our results of operations under u.s. gaap. in the short-term, solvency margins in our japan businesses can also be impacted by fluctuations in exchange rates. for our international insurance operations, changes in foreign currency exchange rates create risk that we may experience volatility in the u.s. dollar-equivalent earnings and equity of these operations. we seek to manage this risk through various hedging strategies, including the use of foreign currency hedges and through holding u.s. dollar-denominated securities in the investment portfolios of certain of these operations. additionally, our japanese insurance operations offer a variety of non-japanese yen denominated products. we seek to mitigate this risk by holding investments in corresponding currencies. for certain of our international insurance operations outside of japan, we elect to not hedge the risk of changes in our subsidiary equity investments due to foreign exchange rate movements. for our domestic investment portfolios supporting our u.s. insurance operations and other proprietary investment portfolios, our foreign currency exchange rate risk arises primarily from investments that are denominated in foreign currencies. we manage this risk by hedging substantially all domestic foreign currency-denominated fixed-income investments into u.s. dollars. we generally do not hedge all of the foreign currency risk of our investments in equity securities of unaffiliated foreign entities. the value and liquidity of our foreign currency investments could be adversely affected by local market, economic and financial conditions. for example, our investments denominated in euro could be adversely affected by unfavorable economic conditions in europe, including due to potential changes in the euro or to the structure or membership of the european union, and in 2016 we experienced volatility in u.k. and other european union related investments as a result of the u.k.'s referendum to exit the european union. there can be no assurance that our hedging and other strategies will effectively mitigate foreign exchange risk. for a discussion of our hedging program and the impact of foreign currency exchange rates on our business, see management's discussion and analysis of results of operations and financial condition impact of foreign currency exchange rates. guarantees within certain of our products, in particular our variable annuities, are market sensitive and may decrease our earnings or increase the volatility of our results of operations or financial position under u.s. gaap. certain of our products, particularly our variable annuity products, include guarantees of minimum surrender values or income streams for stated periods or for life, which may be in excess of account values. downturns in equity markets, increased equity volatility, increased credit spreads, or (as discussed above) reduced interest rates could result in an increase in the valuation of liabilities associated with such guarantees, resulting in increases in reserves and reductions in net income. we use a variety of hedging and risk management strategies, including product features, to mitigate these risks in part and we may periodically change our strategies over time. these strategies may, however, not be fully effective. in addition, we may be unable or may choose not to fully hedge these risks. hedging instruments may not effectively offset the costs of guarantees or may otherwise be insufficient in relation to our obligations. hedging instruments also may not change in value correspondingly with associated liabilities due to equity market or interest rate conditions, non-performance risk or other reasons. we may choose to hedge these risks on a basis that does not correspond to their anticipated or actual impact upon our results of operations or financial position under u.s. gaap. changes from period to period in the valuation of these policy benefits, and in the amount of our obligations effectively hedged, will result in volatility in our results of operations and financial position under u.s. gaap and the statutory capital levels of our insurance subsidiaries. estimates and assumptions we make in connection with hedging activities may fail to reflect or correspond to our actual long-term exposure from our guarantees. further, the risk of increases in the costs of our guarantees not covered by our hedging and other capital and risk management strategies may become more significant due to changes in policyholder behavior driven by market conditions or other factors. the above factors, individually or collectively, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. our valuation of the liabilities for the minimum benefits contained in many of our variable annuity products requires us to consider the market perception of our risk of non-performance, and a decrease in our own credit spreads resulting from ratings upgrades or other events or market conditions could cause the recorded value of these liabilities to increase, which in turn could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. liquidity risk as a financial services company, we are exposed to liquidity risk, which is the risk that the company is unable to meet near-term obligations as they come due. 35 table of contents liquidity risk is a manifestation of events that are driven by other risk types (market, insurance, investment, operational). a liquidity shortfall may arise in the event of insufficient funding sources or an immediate and significant need for cash or collateral. in addition, it is possible that expected liquidity sources, such as our credit facilities, may be unavailable or inadequate to satisfy the liquidity demands described below. the company has four primary sources of liquidity exposure and associated drivers that trigger material liquidity demand. those sources are: derivative collateral market exposure: abrupt changes to interest rate, equity, and/or currency markets may increase collateral requirements to counterparties and create liquidity risk for the company. asset liability mismatch: there are liquidity risks associated with liabilities coming due prior to the matching asset cash flows. structural maturities mismatch can occur in activities such as securities lending, where the liabilities are effectively overnight open transactions used to fund longer term assets. wholesale funding. the company depends upon the financial markets for funding (such as through the issuance of commercial paper, securities lending and repurchase arrangements and other forms of borrowings in the capital markets). these sources might not be available during times of stress, or may only be available on unfavorable terms, which can result in a decrease in our profitability and a significant reduction in our financial flexibility. insurance cash flows. the company faces potential liquidity risks from unexpected cash demands due to severe mortality calamity or lapse events. if such events were to occur, the company may face unexpectedly high levels of claim payments to policyholders. for a discussion of the company's liquidity and sources and uses of liquidity, including information about legal and regulatory limits on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends, see management's discussion and analysis of results of operations and financial condition liquidity and capital resources liquidity. operational risk our operations are exposed to the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed processes or systems, human error or misconduct, and as a result of external events. an operational risk failure may result in one or more actual or potential impacts to the company. operational risk types processes - processing failure; failure to safeguard or retain documents/records; errors in valuation/pricing models and processes; project management or execution failures; improper sales practices. systems - failures during the development and implementation of new systems; systems failures. people - internal fraud, breaches of employment law, unauthorized activities; loss or lack of key personnel, inadequate training; inadequate supervision. external events - external crime; outsourcing risk; vendor risk; natural and other disasters; changes in laws/regulations. legal - legal and regulatory compliance failures. potential impacts financial losses - the company experiences a financial loss. this loss may originate from various causes including, but not limited to, transaction processing errors and fraud. customer impacts - the company may not be able to service customers. this may result if the company is unable to continue operations during a business continuation event or if systems are compromised due to malware or virus. regulatory fines or sanctions - when the company fails to comply with applicable laws or regulations, regulatory fines or sanctions may be imposed. in addition, possible restrictions on business activities may result. legal actions - failure to comply with laws and regulations also exposes the company to litigation risk. this may also result in financial losses. liabilities we may incur as a result of operational failures are described further under contingent liabilities in note 23 to the consolidated financial statements. in addition, certain pending regulatory and litigation matters affecting us, and certain risks to our businesses presented by such matters, are discussed under contingent liabilities and commitments and guarantees, contingent liabilities and litigation and regulatory matters in note 23 to the consolidated financial statements. we may become subject to additional regulatory and legal actions in the future. 36 table of contents key enterprise operational risks - key enterprise operational risks include the following: we are subject to business continuation risk, which is the risk that our systems and data may be disrupted. we depend heavily on our telecommunication, information technology and other operational systems and on the integrity and timeliness of data we use to run our businesses and service our customers. these systems may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events or circumstances wholly or partly beyond our control. further, we face the risk of operational and technology failures by others, including clearing agents, exchanges and other financial intermediaries and of vendors and parties to which we outsource the provision of services or business operations. we may experience a business continuation event as a result of: severe pandemic, either naturally occurring or intentionally manipulated pathogens. geo-political risks, including armed conflict and civil unrest. terrorist events. a significant natural or accidental disaster. we are subject to the risk that we may not adequately maintain information security . there continues to be significant and organized cyber-attack activity against western organizations, including but not limited to the financial services sector. risks related to cyber-attack arise in the following areas: protecting both structured and unstructured sensitive information is a constant need. however, some risks associated with trusted insiders (i.e., employees, consultants, or vendors who are authorized to access the company's systems) remain and cannot be effectively mitigated using technology alone. unsuspecting employees represent a primary avenue for external parties to gain access to our network and systems. many attacks, even from sophisticated actors, include rudimentary techniques such as coaxing an internal user to click on a malicious attachment or link to introduce malware or steal their username and password. in the past, hackers went after credit and debit card data, which is easy to monetize. as credit card security improves, the hackers will look to other sources of monetization, specifically personally identifiable information or using cyber-attacks or the threat of cyber-attacks to extort money from companies. nation-state sponsored organizations are engaged in cyber-attacks but not necessarily for monetization purposes. nation states appear to be motivated by the desire to gain information about foreign citizens and governments or to influence or cause disruptions in commerce or political affairs. as evidenced by the ability of criminal organizations and nation-states to successfully breach large financial institutions and the u.s. government, no organization is fully immune to cyber-attacks. we have also seen an increase in non-technical attempts to commit fraud or solicit information via call centers and interactive voice response systems, and we anticipate the attempts will become more common. we rely on third parties to provide services as described further below. while we have certain standards for all vendors that provide us services, our vendors, and in turn, their own service providers, may become subject to a security breach, including as a result of their failure to perform in accordance with contractual arrangements. we may not adequately ensure the privacy of sensitive data. in the course of our ordinary business we collect, store and share with various third-parties (e.g., service providers, reinsurers, etc.) substantial amounts of private and confidential policyholder information, including in some instances sensitive health-related information. we are subject to the risk that the privacy of this information may be compromised, including as a result of an information security breach described above. third parties (outsourcing providers, vendors and suppliers) present added operational risk to our enterprise. the company's business model relies heavily on the use of third parties to deliver contracted services in a broad range of areas. this presents the risk that the company is unable to meet legal, regulatory, financial or customer obligations because third parties fail to deliver contracted services, or that the company is exposed to reputational damage because third parties operate in a poorly controlled manner. we use affiliates and third-party vendors located outside the u.s. to provide certain services and functions, which also exposes us to business disruptions and political risks as a result of risks inherent in conducting business outside of the u.s. 37 table of contents although we distribute our products through a wide variety of distribution channels, we do maintain relationships with certain key distributors. for example, a significant amount of our sales in japan through banks is derived through a single major japanese bank and a significant portion of our sales in japan through life consultants is derived through a single association relationship. we periodically negotiate the terms of these relationships, and there can be no assurance that such terms will remain acceptable to us or such third parties. an interruption in certain key relationships could materially affect our ability to market our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. distributors may elect to reduce or terminate their distribution relationships with us, including for such reasons as adverse developments in our business, adverse rating agency actions or concerns about market-related risks. we are also at risk that key distribution partners may merge, change their business models in ways that affect how our products are sold, or terminate their distribution contracts with us, or that new distribution channels could emerge and adversely impact the effectiveness of our distribution efforts. an increase in bank and broker-dealer consolidation activity could increase competition for access to distributors, result in greater distribution expenses and impair our ability to market products through these channels. consolidation of distributors and/or other industry changes may also increase the likelihood that distributors will try to renegotiate the terms of any existing selling agreements to terms less favorable to us. in addition, when our products are distributed through unaffiliated firms, we may not be able to monitor or control the manner of their distribution despite our training and compliance programs. if our products are distributed in an inappropriate manner, or to customers for whom they are unsuitable, or distributors of our products otherwise engage in misconduct, we may suffer reputational and other harm to our business. we also have a large captive distribution channel and we are subject to the risk that our monitoring and controls will not detect inappropriate sales practices or misconduct by our own agents. as a financial services company, we are exposed to model risk, which is the risk of financial loss or reputational damage or adverse regulatory impacts caused by model errors or limitations, incorrect implementation of models, or misuse of or overreliance upon models. models are utilized by our businesses and corporate areas primarily to project future cash flows associated with pricing products, calculating reserves and valuing assets, as well as in evaluating risk and determining capital requirements, among other uses. these models may not operate properly and may rely on assumptions and projections that are inherently uncertain. as our businesses continue to grow and evolve, the number and complexity of models we utilize expands, increasing our exposure to error in the design, implementation or use of models, including the associated input data and assumptions. strategic risk we are subject to the risk of events that can cause our fundamental business model to change, either through a shift in the businesses in which we are engaged or a change in our execution. in addition, tactical risks may become strategic risks. for example, interest rates remaining low for a long time may, at some point, cause us to change our sales goals, exit a certain business, and/or change our business model. changes in the regulatory landscape may be unsettling to our business model. new laws and regulations are being considered in the u.s. and our other countries of operation at an increasing pace, as there has been greater scrutiny on financial regulation over the past several years. proposed or unforeseen changes in law or regulation may adversely impact our business. see business regulation for a discussion of certain recently enacted and pending proposals by international, federal and state regulatory authorities and their potential impact on our business, including in the following areas: our regulation as a designated financial company and the associated enhanced prudential standards, many of which are subject to ongoing rule-making. financial sector regulatory reform that may arise out of reports issued by the u.s. treasury. changes in tax law (including u.s. federal, state, and non-u.s.). the dol fiduciary rules. our regulation under u.s. state insurance laws and developments regarding group-wide supervision and capital standards, rbc factors for invested assets and reserves for life insurance, variable annuities and other products. insurer capital standards in japan, korea and other non-u.s. jurisdictions. privacy and cybersecurity regulation. changes in accounting rules applicable to our business may also have an adverse impact on our results of operations or financial condition. for a discussion of accounting pronouncements and their potential impact on our business, see note 2 to the consolidated financial statements. technological changes may be unsettling to our business model . we believe there are three aspects of technological change that would significantly impact our business model as described below. there may be other unforeseen changes in technology which may have a significant impact on our business model. 38 table of contents interaction with customers . technology is moving rapidly and as it does, it puts pressure on existing business models. some of the changes we can anticipate are increased choices about how customers want to interact with the company or how they want the company to interact with them. evolving customer preferences may drive a need to redesign products. our distribution channels may change to become more automated, at the place and time of the customer's choosing. such changes clearly have the potential to disrupt our business model over the next 10 years. investment portfolio . technology may have a significant impact on the companies in which the company invests. for example, environmental concerns spur scientific inquiry which may re-position the relative attractiveness of wind or sun power over oil and gas. the transportation industry may favor alternative modes of conveyance of goods which may shift trucking or air transport out of favor. consumers may change their purchasing behavior to favor online activity which would change the role of malls and retail properties. medical advances . the company is exposed to the impact of medical advances in two major ways. genetic testing and the availability of that information unequally to consumers and insurers can bring anti-selection risks. specifically, data from genetic testing can give our prospective customers a clearer view into their future, allowing them to select products protecting them against likelihoods of mortality or longevity with more precision. also, technologies that extend lives will challenge our actuarial assumptions especially in the annuity-based businesses. other factors may be unsettling to our business model. the following items are examples of those which, among others, could have a meaningful impact on our business. changes to either the policies and procedures the company uses to locate guaranteed group annuity customers, or its reserving policies for its guaranteed group annuities, may result in increased operational expenses and complexity, and increases in reserves, which could adversely impact our results of operations and financial position. the company's retirement business provides guaranteed group annuity benefits under group annuity and structured settlement contracts. under our policies and procedures, we use internal and external tools and resources to locate customers covered by our guaranteed group annuity benefits. we also have policies on the development of our reserve estimates, and we believe that we are complying with our policies and procedures and meeting our obligations to customers. the company regularly reviews, tests and enhances the processes and tools used to locate customers, and over time, such processes and tools are expected to continue to evolve. however, in the normal course of business, at any given time there are a small number of customers covered by our guaranteed group annuity benefits that we cannot locate. in light of recent industry focus on missing retirement customers, the company is reviewing this issue closely. ultimately, we could see greater standardization of what may currently be divergent practices across the industry. changes to either the policies and procedures the company uses to locate customers, or its reserving policies, may result in increased operational expenses and complexity, and increases in reserves, which could adversely impact our results of operations and financial position. a downgrade in our financial strength or credit ratings could potentially, among other things, adversely impact our business prospects, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity . for a discussion of our ratings and the potential impact of a ratings downgrade on our business, see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources ratings. we cannot predict what additional actions rating agencies may take, or what actions we may take in response to the actions of rating agencies, which could adversely affect our business. our ratings could be downgraded at any time and without notice by any rating agency. in addition, a sovereign downgrade could result in a downgrade of our subsidiaries operating in that jurisdiction, and ultimately of prudential financial and our other subsidiaries. for example, in september 2015, s&amp;p downgraded japan's sovereign rating to a+ with a 'stable' outlook citing uncertainties around the strength of economic growth and weak fiscal positions. as a result, s&amp;p subsequently lowered the ratings of a number of institutions in japan, including our japanese insurance subsidiaries. it is possible that japan's sovereign rating could be subject to further downgrades, which would result in further downgrades of our insurance subsidiaries in japan. given the importance of our operations in japan to our overall results, such downgrades could lead to a downgrade of prudential financial and our domestic insurance companies. 39 table of contents london inter-bank offered rate (libor) reform may adversely affect the interest rates on and value of certain derivatives and floating rate securities we hold and floating rate securities we have issued, the value and profitability of certain real estate lending and related activities conducted in our investment management business, and any other assets or liabilities whose value may be tied to libor. actions by regulators or law enforcement agencies, as well as ice benchmark administration (the current administrator of libor) may result in changes to the way libor is determined or the establishment of alternative reference rates. for example, on july 27, 2017, the u.k. financial conduct authority announced that it intends to stop persuading or compelling banks to submit libor rates after 2021. the u.s. federal reserve, based on the recommendations of the new york federal reserve's alternative reference rate committee (constituted of major derivative market participants and their regulators), has announced its plans to begin publishing, in mid-2018, a secured overnight funding rate ( sofr ) which is intended to replace u.s. dollar libor. plans for alternative reference rates for other currencies have also been announced. at this time, it is not possible to predict how markets will respond to these new rates, and the effect of any changes or reforms to libor or discontinuation of libor on new or existing financial instruments to which we have exposure. if libor ceases to exist or if the methods of calculating libor change from current methods for any reason, interest rates on certain derivatives and floating rate securities we hold, securities we have issued, real estate lending and related activities we conduct in our investment management business, and any other assets or liabilities whose value is tied to libor, may be adversely affected. further, any uncertainty regarding the continued use and reliability of libor as a benchmark interest rate could adversely affect the value of such instruments. the changing competitive landscape may adversely affect the company. in each of our businesses we face intense competition from insurance companies, asset managers and diversified financial institutions, both for the ultimate customers for our products and, in many businesses, for distribution through non-affiliated distribution channels. technological advances, changing customer expectations, including related to digital offerings, or other changes in the marketplace may present opportunities for new or smaller competitors without established products or distribution channels to meet consumers' increased expectations more efficiently than us. fintech and insurtech companies have the potential to disrupt industries globally, and many participants have been partially funded by industry players. for example, in investment management, we expect to see continued pressure on fees given the focus on passive investment and the growth of the robo-advice channel. climate change may increase the severity and frequency of calamities, or adversely affect our investment portfolio. climate change may increase the frequency and severity of weather related disasters and pandemics. in addition, climate change regulation may affect the prospects of companies and other entities whose securities we hold, or our willingness to continue to hold their securities. it may also impact other counterparties, including reinsurers, and affect the value of investments, including real estate investments we hold or manage for others. we cannot predict the long-term impacts on us from climate change or related regulation. market conditions and other factors may adversely impact product sales or increase expenses. examples include: a change in market conditions, such as high inflation and high interest rates, could cause a change in consumer sentiment and behavior adversely affecting sales and persistency of our savings and protection products. conversely, low inflation and low interest rates could cause persistency of these products to vary from that anticipated and adversely affect profitability. similarly, changing economic conditions and unfavorable public perception of financial institutions can influence customer behavior, including increasing claims or surrenders in certain products. sales of our investment-based and asset management products and services may decline, and lapses and surrenders of certain insurance products and withdrawals of assets from investment products may increase if a market downturn, increased market volatility or other market conditions result in customers becoming dissatisfied with their investments or products. changes in our discount rate, expected rate of return, life expectancy, health care cost and assumptions regarding compensation increases for our pension and other postretirement benefit plans may result in increased expenses and reduce our profitability. our reputation may be adversely impacted if any of the risks described in this section are realized. reputational risk could manifest from any of the risks as identified in the company's risk identification process. failure to effectively manage risks across a broad range of risk issues exposes the company to reputational harm. if the company were to suffer a significant loss in reputation, both policyholders and counterparties could seek to exit existing relationships. additionally, large changes in credit worthiness, especially credit ratings, could impact access to funding markets while creating additional collateral requirements for existing relationships. the mismanagement of any such risks may potentially damage our reputational asset. our business is anchored in the strength of our brand, our alignment to our values, and our proven commitment to keep our promises to our customers. any negative public perception, founded or otherwise, can be widely and rapidly shared over social media or other means, and could cause damage to our reputation. 40 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 142 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk market risk is defined as the risk of loss from changes in interest rates, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates resulting from asset/liability mismatches where the change in the value of our liabilities is not offset by the change in value of our assets. for additional information regarding the potential impacts of interest rate and other market fluctuations, as well as general economic and market conditions on our businesses and profitability, see item 1a. risk factors above. for additional information regarding the overall management of our general account investments and our asset mix strategies, see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations general account investments management of investments above. for additional information regarding our liquidity and capital resources, which may be impacted by changing market risks, see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources above. market risk management 142 table of contents management of market risk, which we consider to be a combination of both investment risk and market risk exposures, includes the identification and measurement of various forms of risk, the establishment of risk thresholds and the creation of processes intended to maintain risks within these thresholds while optimizing returns on the underlying assets or liabilities. our risk management process utilizes a variety of tools and techniques, including: measures of price sensitivity to market changes (e.g., interest rates, equity index prices, foreign exchange); asset/liability management; stress scenario testing; hedging programs; and risk management governance, including policies, limits, and a committee that oversees investment and market risk. for additional information regarding our overall risk management framework and governance structure, see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations risk management above. market risk mitigation risk mitigation takes three primary forms: asset/liability management: managing assets to liability-based measures. for example, investment policies identify target durations for assets based on liability characteristics and asset portfolios are managed to within ranges around them. this mitigates potential unanticipated economic losses from interest rate movements. hedging: using derivatives to offset risk exposures. for example, for our variable annuities, potential living benefit claims resulting from more severe market conditions are hedged using derivative instruments. management of portfolio concentration risk. for example, ongoing monitoring and management at the enterprise level of key rate, currency and other concentration risks support diversification efforts to mitigate exposure to individual markets and sources of risk. market risk related to interest rates we perform liability-driven investing and engage in careful asset/liability management. asset/liability mismatches create the risk that changes in liability values will differ from the changes in the value of the related assets. additionally, changes in interest rates may impact other items including, but not limited to, the following: net investment spread between the amounts that we are required to pay and the rate of return we are able to earn on investments for certain products supported by general account investments; asset-based fees earned on assets under management or contractholder account values; estimated total gross profits and the amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs; net exposure to the guarantees provided under certain products; and capital levels of our regulated entities. we use duration and convexity analyses to measure price sensitivity to interest rate changes. duration measures the relative sensitivity of the fair value of a financial instrument to changes in interest rates. convexity measures the rate of change of duration with respect to changes in interest rates. we use asset/liability management and derivative strategies to manage our interest rate exposure by legal entity by matching the relative sensitivity of asset and liability values to interest rate changes, or controlling duration mismatch of assets and liability duration targets. in certain markets, capital market limitations that hinder our ability to acquire assets that approximate the duration of some of our liabilities are considered in setting duration targets. we consider risk-based capital and tax implications as well as current market conditions in our asset/liability management strategies. 143 table of contents we assess the impact of interest rate movements on the value of our financial assets, financial liabilities and derivatives using hypothetical test scenarios that assume either upward or downward 100 basis point parallel shifts in the yield curve from prevailing interest rates, reflecting changes in either credit spreads or the risk-free rate. the following table sets forth the net estimated potential loss in fair value on these financial instruments from a hypothetical 100 basis point upward shift as of december 31, 2017 and 2016 . this table is presented on a gross basis and excludes offsetting impacts to insurance liabilities that are not considered financial liabilities under u.s gaap. this scenario results in the greatest net exposure to interest rate risk of the hypothetical scenarios tested at those dates. while the test scenario is for illustrative purposes only and does not reflect our expectations regarding future interest rates or the performance of fixed income markets, it is a near-term, reasonably possible hypothetical change that illustrates the potential impact of such events. these test scenarios do not measure the changes in value that could result from non-parallel shifts in the yield curve which we would expect to produce different changes in discount rates for different maturities. as a result, the actual loss in fair value from a 100 basis point change in interest rates could be different from that indicated by these calculations. the estimated changes in fair values do not include separate account assets. as of december 31, 2017 as of december 31, 2016 notional fair value hypothetical change in fair value notional fair value hypothetical change in fair value (in millions) financial assets with interest rate risk: fixed maturities(1) $ 372,926 $ (36,554 ) $ 347,246 $ (33,171 ) commercial mortgage and other loans 57,341 (2,832 ) 54,283 (2,626 ) derivatives with interest rate risk: swaps $ 210,137 4,735 (3,824 ) $ 209,406 7,097 (5,415 ) futures 24,502 24 (1,081 ) 32,555 49 (995 ) options 54,522 188 188 25,403 166 284 forwards 25,948 (94 ) 0 21,530 (519 ) (20 ) synthetic gics 77,290 (1 ) (1 ) 77,197 5 (1 ) variable annuity and other living benefit feature embedded derivatives(2) (8,720 ) 5,706 (8,238 ) 5,386 financial liabilities with interest rate risk(3): short-term and long-term debt (21,144 ) 3,180 (21,079 ) 3,049 policyholders' account balances investment contracts (100,186 ) 3,561 (100,045 ) 3,570 net estimated potential loss $ (31,657 ) $ (29,939 ) __________ (1) includes fixed maturities classified as trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities and other fixed maturities classified as trading securities under u.s. gaap, but are held for other than trading activities in our segments that offer insurance, retirement and annuities products. includes approximately $370 billion and $345 billion as of december 31, 2017 and 2016 , respectively, of fixed maturities classified as available-for-sale , where unrealized gains and losses are recorded in aoci. (2) excludes any offsetting impact of derivative instruments purchased to hedge changes in the embedded derivatives. amounts reported net of third-party reinsurance. (3) excludes approximately $306 billion and $286 billion as of december 31, 2017 and 2016 , respectively, of insurance reserve and deposit liabilities which are not considered financial liabilities. we believe that the interest rate sensitivities of these insurance liabilities would serve as an offset to the net interest rate risk of the financial assets and liabilities, including investment contracts. under u.s. gaap, the fair value of the embedded derivatives for certain variable annuity and other living benefit features, reflected in the table above, includes the impact of the market's perception of our npr. for more information on npr related to the sensitivity of the embedded derivatives to our npr credit spread, see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations accounting policies &amp; pronouncements application of critical accounting estimates sensitivities for insurance assets and liabilities above. for an additional discussion of our variable annuity optional living benefit guarantees accounted for as embedded derivatives and related derivatives used to hedge the changes in fair value of these embedded derivatives, see market risk related to certain variable annuity products below. for additional information about the key estimates and assumptions used in our determination of fair value, see note 20 to the consolidated financial statements. for information on the impacts of a sustained low interest rate environment, see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations executive summary impact of a low interest rate environment above. market risk related to equity prices 144 table of contents we have exposure to equity risk through asset/liability mismatches, including our investments in equity securities held in our general account investment portfolio and unhedged exposure in our insurance liabilities, principally related to certain variable annuity living benefit feature embedded derivatives. our equity-based derivatives primarily hedge the equity risk embedded in these living benefit feature embedded derivatives, and are also part of our capital hedging program. changes in equity prices create risk that the resulting changes in asset values will differ from the changes in the value of the liabilities relating to the underlying or hedged products. additionally, changes in equity prices may impact other items including, but not limited to, the following: asset-based fees earned on assets under management or contractholder account value; estimated total gross profits and the amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs; and net exposure to the guarantees provided under certain products. we manage equity risk against benchmarks in respective markets. we benchmark our return on equity holdings against a blend of market indices, mainly the s&amp;p 500 and russell 2000 for u.s. equities. we benchmark foreign equities against the tokyo price index, and the msci eafe, a market index of european, australian, and far eastern equities. we target price sensitivities that approximate those of the benchmark indices. we estimate our equity risk from a hypothetical 10% decline in equity benchmark market levels. the following table sets forth the net estimated potential loss in fair value from such a decline as of december 31, 2017 and 2016 . while these scenarios are for illustrative purposes only and do not reflect our expectations regarding future performance of equity markets or of our equity portfolio, they represent near-term reasonably possible hypothetical changes that illustrate the potential impact of such events. these scenarios consider only the direct impact on fair value of declines in equity benchmark market levels and not changes in asset-based fees recognized as revenue, changes in our estimates of total gross profits used as a basis for amortizing deferred policy acquisition and other costs, or changes in any other assumptions such as market volatility or mortality, utilization or persistency rates in our variable annuity contracts that could also impact the fair value of our living benefit features. in addition, these scenarios do not reflect the impact of basis risk, such as potential differences in the performance of the investment funds underlying the variable annuity products relative to the market indices we use as a basis for developing our hedging strategy. the impact of basis risk could result in larger differences between the change in fair value of the equity-based derivatives and the related living benefit features in comparison to these scenarios. in calculating these amounts, we exclude separate account equity securities. as of december 31, 2017 as of december 31, 2016 notional fair value hypothetical change in fair value notional fair value hypothetical change in fair value (in millions) equity securities(1) $ 8,972 $ (897 ) $ 12,139 $ (1,214 ) equity-based derivatives(2) $ 52,275 (128 ) 1,373 $ 31,558 (285 ) 1,137 variable annuity and other living benefit feature embedded derivatives(2)(3) (8,720 ) (1,423 ) (8,238 ) (1,116 ) net estimated potential loss $ (947 ) $ (1,193 ) __________ (1) includes equity securities classified as trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities and other equity securities classified as trading securities under u.s. gaap, but are held for other than trading activities in our segments that offer insurance, retirement and annuities products. (2) the notional and fair value of equity-based derivatives and the fair value of variable annuity and other living benefit feature embedded derivatives are also reflected in amounts under market risk related to interest rates above, and are not cumulative. (3) excludes any offsetting impact of derivative instruments purchased to hedge changes in the embedded derivatives. amounts reported net of third-party reinsurance. market risk related to foreign currency exchange rates as a u.s.-based company with significant business operations outside of the u.s., particularly in japan, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk related to these operations, as well as in our general account investment portfolio and other proprietary investment portfolios. 145 table of contents for our international insurance operations, changes in foreign currency exchange rates create risk that we may experience volatility in the u.s. dollar-equivalent earnings and equity of these operations. we actively manage this risk through various hedging strategies, including the use of foreign currency hedges and through holding u.s. dollar-denominated securities in the investment portfolios of certain of these operations. additionally, our japanese insurance operations offer a variety of non-yen denominated products which are supported by investments in corresponding currencies. while these non-yen denominated assets are economically matched to the currency of the product liabilities, the accounting treatment may differ for changes in the value of these assets and liabilities due to moves in foreign currency exchange rates, resulting in volatility in reported u.s. gaap earnings. this volatility has been mitigated by disaggregating the u.s. and australian dollar-denominated businesses in gibraltar life into separate divisions, each with its own functional currency that aligns with the underlying products and investments. for certain of our international insurance operations outside of japan, we elect to not hedge the risk of changes in our equity investments due to foreign exchange rate movements. for further information, see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations impact of foreign currency exchange rates impact of products denominated in non-local currencies on u.s. gaap earnings above. for our domestic general account investment portfolios supporting our u.s. insurance operations and other proprietary investment portfolios, our foreign currency exchange rate risk arises primarily from investments that are denominated in foreign currencies. we manage this risk by hedging substantially all domestic foreign currency denominated fixed income investments into u.s. dollars. we generally do not hedge all of the foreign currency risk of our investments in equity securities of unaffiliated foreign entities. we manage our foreign currency exchange rate risks within specified limits, and estimate our exposure, excluding equity in our japanese insurance operations, to a hypothetical 10% change in foreign currency exchange rates. the following table sets forth the net estimated potential loss in fair value from such a change as of december 31, 2017 and 2016 . while these scenarios are for illustrative purposes only and do not reflect our expectations regarding future changes in foreign exchange markets, they represent reasonably possible near-term hypothetical changes that illustrate the potential impact of such events. as of december 31, 2017 as of december 31, 2016 fair value hypothetical change in fair value fair value hypothetical change in fair value (in millions) unhedged portion of equity investment in international subsidiaries and foreign currency denominated investments in domestic general account portfolio $ 6,345 $ (635 ) $ 5,003 $ (500 ) for additional information, see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations general account investments portfolio composition and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations results of operations by segment international insurance division above. derivatives we use derivative financial instruments primarily to reduce market risk from changes in interest rates, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates, including their use to alter interest rate or foreign currency exposures arising from mismatches between assets and liabilities. our derivatives primarily include swaps, futures, options and forward contracts that are exchange-traded or contracted in the otc market. our derivatives also include interest rate guarantees we provide on our synthetic gic products. synthetic gics simulate the performance of traditional insurance-related gics but are accounted for as derivatives under u.s. gaap due to the fact that the policyholders own the underlying assets, and we only provide a book value wrap on the customers' funds, which are held in a client-owned trust. since these wraps provide payment of guaranteed principal and interest to the customer, changes in interest rates create risk that declines in the market value of customers' funds would increase our net exposure to these guarantees; however, our obligation is limited to payments that are in excess of the existing customers' fund value. additionally, we have the ability to periodically reset crediting rates, subject to a 0% minimum floor, as well as the ability to increase prices. further, our contract provisions provide that, although participants may withdraw funds at book value, contractholder withdrawals may only occur at market value immediately, or at book value over time. these factors, among others, result in these contracts experiencing minimal changes in fair value, despite a more significant notional value. 146 table of contents our derivatives also include those that are embedded in certain financial instruments, and primarily relate to certain optional living benefit features associated with our variable annuity products, as discussed in more detail in market risk related to certain variable annuity products below. for additional information on our derivative activities, see note 21 to the consolidated financial statements. market risk related to certain variable annuity products the primary risk exposures of our variable annuity contracts relate to actual deviations from, or changes to, the assumptions used in the original pricing of these products, including capital markets assumptions, such as equity market returns, interest rates and market volatility and actuarial assumptions. for our capital markets assumptions, we manage our exposure to the risk created by capital markets fluctuations through a combination of product design elements, such as an automatic rebalancing element and inclusion of certain optional living benefits in our living benefits hedging program. in addition, we consider external reinsurance a form of risk mitigation as well as our capital hedge program. certain variable annuity optional living benefit features are accounted for as embedded derivatives and recorded at fair value. the market risk sensitivities associated with u.s. gaap values of both the embedded derivatives and the related derivatives used to hedge the changes in fair value of these embedded derivatives are provided under market risk related to interest rates and market risk related to equity prices above. for additional information regarding our risk management strategies, including our living benefit hedging program and other product design elements, see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations results of operations by segment individual annuities above. 147 table of contentsrisk factors 32 risk factors you should carefully consider the following risks. these risks are not exclusive, and additional risks to which we are subject include, but are not limited to, the factors mentioned under forward-looking statements above and the risks of our businesses described elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k. many of these risks are interrelated and could occur under similar business and economic conditions, and the occurrence of certain of them may in turn cause the emergence or exacerbate the effect of others. such a combination could materially increase the severity of the impact of these risks on our businesses, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. overview the company's risk management framework documents the definition, potential manifestation, and management of its risks. the company has categorized its risks into tactical and strategic risks. tactical risks may cause damage to the company, and the company seeks to manage and mitigate them through models, metrics and the overall risk framework. the company's tactical risks include investment, insurance, market, liquidity, and operational risk. strategic risks can cause the company's fundamental business model to change, either through a shift in the businesses in which it is engaged or a change in execution. the company's strategic risks include regulatory, technological changes and other external factors. these risks, as well as the sub-risks that may impact the company, are discussed below. the company's risk management framework is described under management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations risk management. investment risk our investment portfolios are subject to the risk of loss due to default or deterioration in credit quality or value. we are exposed to investment risk through our investments, which primarily consist of public and private fixed maturity securities, commercial mortgage and other loans, equity securities and alternative assets including private equity, hedge funds and real estate. for a discussion of our general account investments, see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations general account investments. we are also exposed to investment risk through a potential counterparty default. 32 table of contents investment risk may result from (1) economic conditions, (2) adverse capital market conditions, including disruptions in individual market sectors or a lack of buyers in the marketplace, (3) volatility, (4) credit spread changes, (5) benchmark interest rate changes, (6) changes in foreign currency exchange rates and (7) declines in value of underlying collateral. these factors may impact the credit quality, liquidity and value of our investments and derivatives, potentially resulting in higher capital charges and unrealized or realized losses. also, certain investments we hold, regardless of market conditions, are relatively illiquid and our ability to promptly sell these assets for their full value may be limited. additionally, our valuation of investments may include methodologies, inputs and assumptions which are subject to change and different interpretation and could result in changes to investment valuations that may materially impact our results of operations or financial condition. for information about the valuation of our investments, see note 6 to the consolidated financial statements. our investment portfolio is subject to credit risk, which is the risk that an obligor (or guarantor) is unable or unwilling to meet its contractual payment obligations on its fixed maturity security, loan or other obligations. credit risk may manifest in an idiosyncratic manner (i.e., specific to an individual borrower or industry) or through market-wide credit cycles. financial deterioration of the obligor increases the risk of default and may increase the capital charges required under such regimes as the naic rbc, the fsa smr or other constructs to hold the investment and in turn, potentially limit our overall capital flexibility. credit defaults (as well as credit impairments, realized losses on credit-related sales, and increases in credit related reserves) may result in losses which adversely impact earnings, capital and our ability to appropriately match our liabilities and meet future obligations. our company is subject to counterparty risk, which is the risk that the counterparty to a transaction could default or deteriorate in creditworthiness before or at the final settlement of a transaction . in the normal course of business, we enter into financial contracts to manage risks (such as derivatives to manage market risk and reinsurance treaties to manage insurance risk), improve the return on investments (such as securities lending and repurchase transactions) and provide sources of liquidity or financing (such as credit agreements, securities lending agreements and repurchase agreements). these transactions expose the company to counterparty risk. counterparties include commercial banks, investment banks, broker-dealers and insurance and reinsurance companies. in the event of a counterparty deterioration or default, the magnitude of the losses will depend on then current market conditions and the length of time required to enter into a replacement transaction with a new counterparty. losses are likely to be higher under stressed conditions. our investment portfolio is subject to equity risk, which is the risk of loss due to deterioration in market value of public equity or alternative assets . we include public equity and alternative assets (including private equity, hedge funds and real estate) in our portfolio constructions, as these asset classes can provide returns over longer periods of time, aligning with the long-term nature of certain of our liabilities. public equity and alternative assets have varying degrees of price transparency. equities traded on stock exchanges (public equities) have significant price transparency, as transactions are often required to be disclosed publicly. assets for which price transparency is more opaque include private equity (joint ventures/limited partnerships) and direct real estate. as these investments typically do not trade on public markets and indications of realizable market value may not be readily available, valuations can be infrequent and/or more volatile. a sustained decline in public equity and alternative markets may reduce the returns earned by our investment portfolio through lower than expected dividend income, property operating income, and capital gains, thereby adversely impacting earnings, capital, and product pricing assumptions. these assets may also produce volatility in earnings as a result of uneven distributions on the underlying investments. insurance risk we have significant liabilities for policyholders' benefits which are subject to insurance risk. insurance risk is the risk that actual experience deviates adversely from our best estimate insurance assumptions, including mortality, morbidity, and policyholder behavior assumptions . we provide a variety of insurance products, on both an individual and group basis, that are designed to help customers protect against a variety of financial uncertainties. our insurance products protect customers against their potential risk of loss by transferring those risks to the company, where those risks can be managed more efficiently through pooling and diversification over a larger number of independent exposures. during this transfer process, we assume the risk that actual losses experienced in our insurance products deviates significantly from what we expect. more specifically, insurance risk is concerned with the deviations that impact our future liabilities. our profitability may decline if mortality experience, morbidity experience or policyholder behavior experience differ significantly from our expectations when we price our products. in addition, if we experience higher than expected claims our liquidity position may be adversely impacted, and we may incur losses on investments if we are required to sell assets in order to pay claims. if it is necessary to sell assets at a loss, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted. for a discussion of the impact of changes in insurance assumptions on our financial condition, see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations accounting policies and pronouncements application of critical accounting estimates insurance liabilities. 33 table of contents certain of our insurance products are subject to mortality risk, which is the risk that actual deaths experienced deviate adversely from our expectations . mortality risk is a biometric risk that can manifest in the following ways: mortality calamity is the risk that mortality rates in a single year deviate adversely from what is expected as the result of pandemics, natural or man-made disasters, military actions or terrorism. a mortality calamity event will reduce our earnings and capital and we may be forced to liquidate assets before maturity in order to pay the excess claims. mortality calamity risk is more pronounced in respect of specific geographic areas (including major metropolitan centers, where we have concentrations of customers, including under group and individual life insurance), concentrations of employees or significant operations, and in respect of countries and regions in which we operate that are subject to a greater potential threat of military action or conflict. ultimate losses would depend on several factors, including the rates of mortality and morbidity among various segments of the insured population, the collectability of reinsurance, the possible macroeconomic effects on our investment portfolio, the effect on lapses and surrenders of existing policies, as well as sales of new policies and other variables. mortality trend is the risk that mortality improvements in the future deviate adversely from what is expected. mortality trend is a long-term risk in that can emerge gradually over time. longevity products, such as annuities, pension risk transfer and long-term care, experience adverse impacts due to higher-than-expected mortality improvement. mortality products, such as life insurance, experience adverse impacts due to lower-than-expected improvement. if this risk were to emerge, the company would update assumptions used to calculate reserves for in-force business, which may result in additional assets needed to meet the higher expected annuity claims or earlier expected life claims. an increase in reserves due to revised assumptions has an immediate impact on our results of operations and financial condition; however, economically the impact is generally long term as the excess outflow is paid over time. mortality base is the risk that actual base mortality deviates adversely from what is expected in pricing and valuing our products. base mortality risk can arise from a lack of credible data on which to base the assumptions. certain of our insurance products are subject to morbidity risk, which is the risk that either incidence or continuation experience deviates adversely from what is expected . morbidity risk is a biometric risk that can manifest in the following ways: morbidity incidence is the risk that the rate at which policyholders become unhealthy (and qualify for benefits under insurance policies) deviates adversely from what is expected. we are primarily exposed to morbidity incidence risk through short-term disability products, long-term disability products, long-term care products, and the accident and health products we sell in japan. morbidity continuation is the risk that the length of time for which policyholders remain unhealthy deviates adversely from what is expected. this risk is primarily in our disability and long-term care products. in each case, an increase in claims, or an increase in reserves due to revised morbidity assumptions can have an immediate impact on our results of operations and financial condition; however, economically the impact of morbidity risk for products that pay out for ongoing illness or disability generally emerges over the longer term as the morbidity claims are paid. certain of our insurance products are subject to policyholder behavior risk, which is the risk that actual policyholder behavior deviates adversely from what is expected. policyholder behavior risk includes the following components: lapse calamity is the risk that lapse rates over the short-term deviate adversely from what is expected, for example, surrenders of certain insurance products may increase following a downgrade of our financial strength ratings or adverse publicity. only certain products are exposed to this risk. products that offer a cash surrender value that resides in the general account, such as general account stable value products, could pose a potential short-term lapse calamity risk. surrender of these products can impact liquidity, and it may be necessary in certain market conditions to sell assets to meet surrender demands. lapse calamity can also impact our earnings through its impact on estimated future profits. 34 table of contents policyholder behavior efficiency is the risk that the behavior of our customers or policyholders deviates adversely from what is expected. policyholder behavior efficiency risk arises through product features which provide some degree of choice or flexibility for the policyholder, which can impact the amount and/or timing of claims. such choices include surrender, lapse, partial withdrawal, policy loan, utilization, and premium payment rates for contracts with flexible premiums. while some behavior is driven by macro factors such as market movements, policyholder behavior at a fundamental level is driven primarily by policyholders' individual needs, which may differ significantly from product to product depending on many factors including the features offered, the approach taken to market each product, and competitor pricing. for example, persistency (the probability that a policy or contract will remain in force) within our annuities business may be significantly impacted by the value of guaranteed minimum benefits contained in many of our variable annuity products being higher than current account values in light of poor market performance as well as other factors. many of our products also provide our customers with wide flexibility with respect to the amount and timing of premium deposits and the amount and timing of withdrawals from the policy's value. results may vary based on differences between actual and expected premium deposits and withdrawals for these products, especially if these product features are relatively new to the marketplace. the pricing of certain of our variable annuity products that contain certain living benefit guarantees is also based on assumptions about utilization rates, or the percentage of contracts that will utilize the benefit during the contract duration, including the timing of the first withdrawal. results may vary based on differences between actual and expected benefit utilization. we may also be impacted by customers seeking to sell their benefits. in particular, the development of a secondary market for life insurance, including life settlements or viaticals and investor owned life insurance, and third-party investor strategies in the annuities business, could adversely affect the profitability of existing business and our pricing assumptions for new business. policyholder behavior efficiency is generally a long-term risk that emerges over time. an increase in reserves due to revised assumptions has an immediate impact on our results of operations and financial condition; however, from an economic or cash flow perspective, the impact is generally long term as the excess outflow is paid over time. our ability to reprice products is limited and may not compensate for deviations from our expected insurance assumptions. although some of our products permit us to increase premiums or adjust other charges and credits during the life of the policy or contract, the adjustments permitted under the terms of the policies or contracts may not be sufficient to maintain profitability or may cause the policies or contracts to lapse. for example, for our long-term care insurance products, our assumptions for reserves for future policy benefits have factored in an estimate of the timing and amount of anticipated and yet-to-be-filed premium increases which will require state approval. our actual experience obtaining pricing increases could be materially different than what we have assumed, resulting in further policy liability increases which could be material. many of our products do not permit us to increase premiums or adjust other charges and credits or limit those adjustments during the life of the policy or contract. even if permitted under the policy or contract, we may not be able or willing to raise premiums or adjust other charges sufficiently, or at all. accordingly, significant deviations in actual experience from our pricing assumptions could have an adverse effect on the profitability of our products. market risk the profitability of many of our insurance and annuity products, as well as the fees we earn in our investment management business, are subject to market risk. market risk is the risk of loss from changes in interest rates, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates. the profitability of many of our insurance and annuity products depends in part on the value of the separate accounts supporting these products, which can fluctuate substantially depending on market conditions. market conditions resulting in reductions in the value of assets we manage has an adverse effect on the revenues and profitability of our investment management business, which depends on fees related primarily to the value of assets under management, and could decrease the value of our strategic investments. derivative instruments we use to hedge and manage foreign exchange, interest rate and equity market risks associated with our products and businesses, and other risks might not perform as intended or expected, resulting in higher than expected realized losses and stresses on liquidity. market conditions can limit availability of hedging instruments, require us to post additional collateral, and further increase the cost of executing product related hedges and such costs may not be recovered in the pricing of the underlying products being hedged. 35 table of contents market risk may limit opportunities for investment of available funds at appropriate returns, including due to the current low interest rate environment, or other factors, with possible negative impacts on our overall results. limited opportunities for attractive investments may lead to holding cash for long periods of time and increased use of derivatives for duration management and other portfolio management purposes. the increased use of derivatives may increase the volatility of our u.s. gaap results and our statutory capital. our investments, results of operations and financial condition may also be adversely affected by developments in the global economy, in the u.s. economy (including as a result of actions by the federal reserve with respect to monetary policy, and adverse political developments), and in the japanese economy (including due to the effects of inflation or deflation, interest rate volatility, changes in the japan sovereign credit rating, and material changes in the value of the japanese yen relative to the u.s. dollar). global, u.s. or japanese economic activity and financial markets may in turn be negatively affected by adverse developments or conditions in specific geographical regions. for a discussion of the impact of changes in market conditions on our financial condition see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. our insurance and annuity products and certain of our investment products, and our investment returns, are subject to interest rate risk, which is the risk of loss arising from asset/liability duration mismatches within our general account investments as well as invested assets of other entities and operations . the risk of mismatch in asset/liability duration is mainly driven by the specific dynamics of product liabilities. some product liabilities are expected to have only modest risk related to interest rates because cash flows can be matched by available assets in the investable space. the interest rate risk emerges primarily from their tail cash flows (30 years or more), which cannot be matched by assets for sale in the marketplace, exposing the company to future reinvestment risk. market-sensitive cash flows exist with other product liabilities including products whose cash flows can be linked to market performance through secondary guarantees, minimum crediting rates, and/or changes in insurance assumptions. our exposure to interest rates can manifest over years as in the case of earnings compression or in the short term by creating volatility in both earnings and capital. for example, some of our products expose us to the risk that changes in interest rates will reduce the spread between the amounts that we are required to pay under contracts and the rate of return we are able to earn on our general account investments supporting these contracts. when interest rates decline or remain low, as they have in recent years, we must invest in lower-yielding instruments, potentially reducing net investment income and constraining our ability to offer certain products. this risk is increased as more policyholders may retain their policies in a low rate environment. since many of our policies and contracts have guaranteed minimum crediting rates or limit the resetting of crediting rates, the spreads could decrease or go negative. alternatively, when interest rates rise, we may not be able to replace the assets in our general account with the higher-yielding assets as quickly as needed to fund the higher crediting rates necessary to keep these products and contracts competitive. it is possible that fewer policyholders may retain their policies and annuity contracts as they pursue higher crediting rates, which could expose the company to losses and liquidity stress. in addition, rising interest rates could cause a decline in the market value of fixed income assets the company manages which in turn could result in lower asset management fees earned. our mitigation efforts with respect to interest rate risk are primarily focused on maintaining an investment portfolio with diversified maturities that has a key rate duration profile that is approximately equal to the key rate duration profile of our liability and surplus benchmarks; however, these benchmarks are based on estimates of the liability cash flow profiles which are complex and could turn out to be inaccurate, especially when markets are volatile. in addition, there are practical and capital market limitations on our ability to accomplish this matching. due to these and other factors we may need to liquidate investments prior to maturity at a loss in order to satisfy liabilities or be forced to reinvest funds in a lower rate environment. our significant business operations outside the u.s. subject us to foreign exchange risk, which is the risk of loss arising from assets that are invested in a different currency than the related liability, as well as the unhedged portion of the company's earnings from, and capital supporting, operations in a foreign currency . as a u.s.-based company with significant business operations outside of the u.s., particularly in japan, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk related to these operations, as well as in our investment portfolio. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect our profitability, financial condition and cash flows, as well as increase the volatility of our results of operations under u.s. gaap. in the short-term, solvency margins in our japan businesses can also be impacted by fluctuations in exchange rates. 36 table of contents for our international insurance operations, our retirement segment's earnings on non-u.s. dollar-denominated longevity reinsurance contracts and pgim's investment activities based in currencies other than the u.s. dollar, changes in foreign currency exchange rates create risk that we may experience volatility in the u.s. dollar-equivalent earnings and equity of these operations. we seek to manage this risk through various hedging strategies, including the use of foreign currency hedges and through holding u.s. dollar-denominated securities in the investment portfolios of certain of these operations. additionally, our japanese insurance operations offer a variety of non-japanese yen denominated products. we seek to mitigate this risk by holding investments in corresponding currencies. for certain of our international insurance operations outside of japan, we elect to not hedge the risk of changes in our subsidiary equity investments due to foreign exchange rate movements. for our domestic investment portfolios supporting our u.s. insurance operations and other proprietary investment portfolios, our foreign currency exchange rate risk arises primarily from investments that are denominated in foreign currencies. we manage this risk by hedging substantially all domestic foreign currency-denominated fixed-income investments into u.s. dollars. we generally do not hedge all of the foreign currency risk of our investments in equity securities of unaffiliated foreign entities. the value and liquidity of our foreign currency investments could be adversely affected by local market, economic and financial conditions. for example, our investments denominated in euro could be adversely affected by unfavorable economic conditions in europe, including due to potential changes in the euro or to the structure or membership of the european union, and in 2016 we experienced volatility in u.k. and other european union related investments as a result of the u.k.'s referendum to exit the european union. there can be no assurance that our hedging and other strategies will effectively mitigate foreign exchange risk. for a discussion of our hedging program and the impact of foreign currency exchange rates on our business, see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations impact of foreign currency exchange rates. guarantees within certain of our products, in particular our variable annuities and to a lesser extent certain individual life and international insurance products, are market sensitive and may decrease our earnings or increase the volatility of our results of operations or financial position under u.s. gaap. certain of our products, particularly our variable annuity products and to a lesser extent certain individual life and international insurance products, include guarantees of minimum surrender values or income streams for stated periods or for life, which may be in excess of account values. downturns in equity markets, increased equity volatility, increased credit spreads, or (as discussed above) reduced interest rates could result in an increase in the valuation of liabilities associated with such guarantees, resulting in increases in reserves and reductions in net income. we use a variety of hedging and risk management strategies, including product features, to mitigate these risks in part and we may periodically change our strategies over time. these strategies may, however, not be fully effective. in addition, we may be unable or may choose not to fully hedge these risks. hedging instruments may not effectively offset the costs of guarantees or may otherwise be insufficient in relation to our obligations. hedging instruments also may not change in value correspondingly with associated liabilities due to equity market or interest rate conditions, non-performance risk or other reasons. we may choose to hedge these risks on a basis that does not correspond to their anticipated or actual impact upon our results of operations or financial position under u.s. gaap. changes from period to period in the valuation of these policy benefits, and in the amount of our obligations effectively hedged, will result in volatility in our results of operations and financial position under u.s. gaap and the statutory capital levels of our insurance subsidiaries. estimates and assumptions we make in connection with hedging activities may fail to reflect or correspond to our actual long-term exposure from our guarantees. further, the risk of increases in the costs of our guarantees not covered by our hedging and other capital and risk management strategies may become more significant due to changes in policyholder behavior driven by market conditions or other factors. the above factors, individually or collectively, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. our valuation of the liabilities for the minimum benefits contained in many of our variable annuity products requires us to consider the market perception of our risk of non-performance, and a decrease in our own credit spreads resulting from ratings upgrades or other events or market conditions could cause the recorded value of these liabilities to increase, which in turn could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. liquidity risk as a financial services company, we are exposed to liquidity risk, which is the risk that the company is unable to meet near-term obligations as they come due. liquidity risk is a manifestation of events that are driven by other risk types (market, insurance, investment, operational). a liquidity shortfall may arise in the event of insufficient funding sources or an immediate and significant need for cash or collateral. in addition, it is possible that expected liquidity sources, such as our credit facilities, may be unavailable or inadequate to satisfy the liquidity demands described below. 37 table of contents the company has four primary sources of liquidity exposure and associated drivers that trigger material liquidity demand. those sources are: derivative collateral market exposure: abrupt changes to interest rate, equity, and/or currency markets may increase collateral requirements to counterparties and create liquidity risk for the company. asset liability mismatch: there are liquidity risks associated with liabilities coming due prior to the matching asset cash flows. structural maturities mismatch can occur in activities such as securities lending, where the liabilities are effectively overnight open transactions used to fund longer term assets. wholesale funding. the company depends upon the financial markets for funding (such as through the issuance of commercial paper, securities lending and repurchase arrangements and other forms of borrowings in the capital markets). these sources might not be available during times of stress, or may only be available on unfavorable terms, which can result in a decrease in our profitability and a significant reduction in our financial flexibility. insurance cash flows. the company faces potential liquidity risks from unexpected cash demands due to severe mortality calamity, customer withdrawals or lapse events. if such events were to occur, the company may face unexpectedly high levels of claim payments to policyholders. for a discussion of the company's liquidity and sources and uses of liquidity, including information about legal and regulatory limits on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends, see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources liquidity. operational risk our operations are exposed to the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed processes or systems, human error or misconduct, and as a result of external events. an operational risk failure may result in one or more actual or potential impacts to the company. operational risk types processes - processing failure; failure to safeguard or retain documents/records; errors in valuation/pricing models and processes; project management or execution failures; improper sales practices. systems - failures during the development and implementation of new systems; systems failures. people - internal fraud, breaches of employment law, unauthorized activities; loss or lack of key personnel, inadequate training; inadequate supervision. external events - external crime; outsourcing risk; vendor risk; natural and other disasters; changes in laws/regulations. legal - legal and regulatory compliance failures. potential impacts financial losses - the company experiences a financial loss. this loss may originate from various causes including, but not limited to, transaction processing errors and fraud. customer impacts - the company may not be able to service customers. this may result if the company is unable to continue operations during a business continuation event or if systems are compromised due to malware or virus. regulatory fines or sanctions - when the company fails to comply with applicable laws or regulations, regulatory fines or sanctions may be imposed. in addition, possible restrictions on business activities may result. legal actions - failure to comply with laws and regulations also exposes the company to litigation risk. this may also result in financial losses. liabilities we may incur as a result of operational failures are described further under contingent liabilities in note 22 to the consolidated financial statements. in addition, certain pending regulatory and litigation matters affecting us, and certain risks to our businesses presented by such matters, are discussed in note 22 to the consolidated financial statements. we may become subject to additional regulatory and legal actions in the future. key enterprise operational risks - key enterprise operational risks include the following: 38 table of contents we are subject to business continuation risk, which is the risk that our systems and data may be disrupted. we depend heavily on our telecommunication, information technology and other operational systems and on the integrity and timeliness of data we use to run our businesses and service our customers. these systems may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events or circumstances wholly or partly beyond our control. further, we face the risk of operational and technology failures by others, including clearing agents, exchanges and other financial intermediaries and of vendors and parties to which we outsource the provision of services or business operations. we may experience a business continuation event as a result of: severe pandemic, either naturally occurring or intentionally manipulated pathogens. geo-political risks, including armed conflict and civil unrest. terrorist events. a significant natural or accidental disaster. we are subject to the risk that we may not adequately maintain information security . there continues to be significant and organized cyber-attack activity against western organizations, including but not limited to the financial services sector and no organization is fully immune to cyber-attacks. risks related to cyber-attack arise in the following areas: protecting both structured and unstructured sensitive information is a constant need. however, some risks associated with trusted insiders (i.e., employees, consultants, or vendors who are authorized to access the company's systems) cannot be fully mitigated using technology or otherwise. unsuspecting employees represent a primary avenue for external parties to gain access to our network and systems. many attacks, even from sophisticated actors, include rudimentary techniques such as coaxing an internal user to click on a malicious attachment or link to introduce malware or steal their username and password. in the past, hackers went after credit and debit card data, which is easy to monetize. as credit card security improves, the hackers will look to other sources of monetization, specifically personally identifiable information or using cyber-attacks or the threat of cyber-attacks to extort money from companies. insurance and retirement services companies are increasingly being targeted by hackers. nation-state sponsored organizations are engaged in cyber-attacks but not necessarily for monetization purposes. nation states appear to be motivated by the desire to gain information about foreign citizens and governments or to influence or cause disruptions in commerce or political affairs. we have also seen an increase in non-technical attempts to commit fraud or solicit information via call centers and interactive voice response systems, and we anticipate the attempts will become more common. we rely on third parties to provide services as described further below. while we have certain standards for all vendors that provide us services, our vendors, and in turn, their own service providers, may become subject to a security breach, including as a result of their failure to perform in accordance with contractual arrangements. we may not adequately ensure the privacy of sensitive data. in the course of our ordinary business we collect, store and share with various third-parties (e.g., service providers, reinsurers, etc.) substantial amounts of private and confidential policyholder information, including in some instances sensitive health-related information. we are subject to the risk that the privacy of this information may be compromised, including as a result of an information security breach described above. third parties (outsourcing providers, vendors and suppliers and joint venture partners) present added operational risk to our enterprise. the company's business model relies heavily on the use of third parties to deliver contracted services in a broad range of areas. this presents the risk that the company is unable to meet legal, regulatory, financial or customer obligations because third parties fail to deliver contracted services, or that the company is exposed to reputational damage because third parties operate in a poorly controlled manner. we use affiliates and third-party vendors located outside the u.s. to provide certain services and functions, which also exposes us to business disruptions and political risks as a result of risks inherent in conducting business outside of the u.s. in our investments in which we hold a minority interest, or that are managed by third parties, we lack management and operational control over operations, which may subject us to additional operational, compliance and legal risks and prevent us from taking or causing to be taken actions to protect or increase the value of those investments. in those jurisdictions where we are constrained by law from owning a majority interest in jointly owned operations, our remedies in the event of a breach by a joint venture partner may be limited (e.g., we may have no ability to exercise a call option). 39 table of contents affiliate and third-party distributors of our products present added regulatory, competitive and other risks to our enterprise. our products are sold primarily through our captive/affiliated distribution models and third-party distributing firms. our captive/affiliated distribution models are made up of large numbers of decentralized sales personnel who are compensated based on commissions. the third-party distributing firms generally are not dedicated to us exclusively and may frequently recommend and/or market products of our competitors. accordingly, we must compete intensely for their services. our sales could be adversely affected if we are unable to attract, retain or motivate third-party distributing firms or if we do not adequately provide support, training, compensation, and education to this sales network regarding our products, or if our products are not competitive and not appropriately aligned with consumer needs. while third-party distributing firms have an independent regulatory accountability, some regulators have been clear with expectations that product manufacturers retain significant sales risk accountability. in addition, there have been a number of investigations regarding the marketing practices of brokers and agents selling annuity and insurance products and the payments they receive. these investigations have resulted in enforcement actions against companies in our industry and brokers and agents marketing and selling those companies' products. these investigations and enforcement actions could result in penalties and the imposition of corrective action plans and/or changes to industry practices, which could adversely affect our ability to market our products. furthermore, if our products are distributed in an inappropriate manner, or to customers for whom they are unsuitable, or distributors of our products otherwise engage in misconduct, we may suffer reputational and other harm to our business and be subject to regulatory action. although we distribute our products through a wide variety of distribution channels, we do maintain relationships with certain key distributors. for example, a significant amount of our sales in japan through banks is derived through a single major japanese bank and a significant portion of our sales in japan through life consultants is derived through a single association relationship. we periodically negotiate the terms of these relationships, and there can be no assurance that such terms will remain acceptable to us or such third parties. an interruption in certain key relationships could materially affect our ability to market our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. distributors may elect to reduce or terminate their distribution relationships with us, including for such reasons as adverse developments in our business, adverse rating agency actions or concerns about market-related risks. we are also at risk that key distribution partners may merge, change their business models in ways that affect how our products are sold, or terminate their distribution contracts with us, or that new distribution channels could emerge and adversely impact the effectiveness of our distribution efforts. an increase in bank and broker-dealer consolidation activity could increase competition for access to distributors, result in greater distribution expenses and impair our ability to market products through these channels. consolidation of distributors and/or other industry changes may also increase the likelihood that distributors will try to renegotiate the terms of any existing selling agreements to terms less favorable to us. finally, we also may be challenged by new technologies and marketplace entrants that could interfere with our existing relationships. as a financial services company, we are exposed to model risk, which is the risk of financial loss or reputational damage or adverse regulatory impacts caused by model errors or limitations, incorrect implementation of models, or misuse of or overreliance upon models. models are utilized by our businesses and corporate areas primarily to project future cash flows associated with pricing products, calculating reserves and valuing assets, as well as in evaluating risk and determining capital requirements, among other uses. these models may not operate properly and may rely on assumptions and projections that are inherently uncertain. as our businesses continue to grow and evolve, the number and complexity of models we utilize expands, increasing our exposure to error in the design, implementation or use of models, including the associated input data and assumptions. strategic risk we are subject to the risk of events that can cause our fundamental business model to change, either through a shift in the businesses in which we are engaged or a change in our execution. in addition, tactical risks may become strategic risks. for example, interest rates remaining low for a long time may, at some point, cause us to change our sales goals, exit a certain business, and/or change our business model. changes in the regulatory landscape may be unsettling to our business model. new laws and regulations are being considered in the u.s. and our other countries of operation at an increasing pace, as there has been greater scrutiny on financial regulation over the past several years. proposed or unforeseen changes in law or regulation may adversely impact our business. see business regulation for a discussion of certain recently enacted and pending proposals by international, federal and state regulatory authorities and their potential impact on our business, including in the following areas: financial sector regulatory reform. tax laws (including u.s. federal, state, and non-u.s.), including beat and gilti. fiduciary rules and other standards of care. 40 table of contents our regulation under u.s. state insurance laws and developments regarding group-wide supervision and capital standards, rbc factors for invested assets and reserves for life insurance, variable annuities and other products. insurer capital standards in japan, korea and other non-u.s. jurisdictions. privacy and cybersecurity regulation. changes in accounting rules applicable to our business may also have an adverse impact on our results of operations or financial condition. for a discussion of accounting pronouncements and their potential impact on our business, including accounting standards update ( asu ) 2018-12, financial services - insurance (topic 944): targeted improvements to the accounting for long-duration contracts, see note 2 to the consolidated financial statements. technological changes may be unsettling to our business model . we believe the following aspects of technological change would significantly impact our business model. there may be other unforeseen changes in technology which may have a significant impact on our business model. interaction with customers . technology is moving rapidly and as it does, it puts pressure on existing business models. some of the changes we can anticipate are increased choices about how customers want to interact with the company or how they want the company to interact with them. evolving customer preferences may drive a need to redesign products. our distribution channels may change to become more automated, at the place and time of the customer's choosing. such changes clearly have the potential to disrupt our business model over the next 10 years. investment portfolio . technology may have a significant impact on the companies in which the company invests. for example, environmental concerns spur scientific inquiry which may re-position the relative attractiveness of wind or sun power over oil and gas. the transportation industry may favor alternative modes of conveyance of goods which may shift trucking or air transport out of favor. consumers may change their purchasing behavior to favor online activity which would change the role of malls and retail properties. medical advances . the company is exposed to the impact of medical advances in two major ways. genetic testing and the availability of that information unequally to consumers and insurers can bring anti-selection risks. specifically, data from genetic testing can give our prospective customers a clearer view into their future, allowing them to select products protecting them against likelihoods of mortality or longevity with more precision. also, technologies that extend lives will challenge our actuarial assumptions especially in the annuity-based businesses. other factors may be unsettling to our business model. the following items are examples of those which, among others, could have a meaningful impact on our business. changes to either the policies and procedures the company uses to locate guaranteed group annuity customers, or its reserving policies for its guaranteed group annuities, may result in increased operational expenses and complexity, and increases in reserves, which could adversely impact our results of operations and financial position. the company's retirement business provides guaranteed group annuity benefits under group annuity and structured settlement contracts. under our policies and procedures, we use internal and external tools and resources to locate customers covered by our guaranteed group annuity benefits. we also have policies on the development of our reserve estimates, and we believe that we are complying with our policies and procedures and meeting our obligations to customers. in light of industry focus on missing retirement customers, the company has reviewed this issue closely and made enhancements to its processes. in addition, the company continues to regularly review, test and enhance the processes and tools used to locate customers, and over time, such processes and tools are expected to continue to evolve. however, in the normal course of business, at any given time there are a small number of customers that we cannot locate. ultimately, we could see greater standardization of what may currently be divergent practices across the industry. changes to either the policies and procedures the company uses to locate customers, or its reserving policies, may result in increased operational expenses and complexity, and increases in reserves, which could adversely impact our results of operations and financial position. 41 table of contents a downgrade in our financial strength or credit ratings could potentially, among other things, adversely impact our business prospects, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity . for a discussion of our ratings and the potential impact of a ratings downgrade on our business, see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources ratings. we cannot predict what additional actions rating agencies may take, or what actions we may take in response to the actions of rating agencies, which could adversely affect our business. our ratings could be downgraded at any time and without notice by any rating agency. in addition, a sovereign downgrade could result in a downgrade of our subsidiaries operating in that jurisdiction, and ultimately of prudential financial and our other subsidiaries. for example, in september 2015, s&amp;p downgraded japan's sovereign rating to a+ with a 'stable' outlook citing uncertainties around the strength of economic growth and weak fiscal positions. as a result, s&amp;p subsequently lowered the ratings of a number of institutions in japan, including our japanese insurance subsidiaries. it is possible that japan's sovereign rating could be subject to further downgrades, which would result in further downgrades of our insurance subsidiaries in japan. given the importance of our operations in japan to our overall results, such downgrades could lead to a downgrade of prudential financial and our domestic insurance companies. the elimination of london inter-bank offered rate ( libor ) may adversely affect the interest rates on and value of certain derivatives and floating rate securities we hold and floating rate securities we have issued, the value and profitability of certain real estate lending and other activities conducted in pgim, and any other assets or liabilities whose value is tied to libor. actions by regulators have resulted in the establishment of alternative reference rates to libor in most major currencies. on july 27, 2017, the u.k. financial conduct authority announced that it intends to stop persuading or compelling banks to submit libor rates after 2021. however, it remains unclear if, how and in what form, libor will continue to exist. the u.s. federal reserve, based on the recommendations of the new york federal reserve's alternative reference rate committee (constituted of major derivative market participants and their regulators), has begun publishing a secured overnight funding rate ( sofr ) which is intended to replace u.s. dollar libor, and sofr-based investment products have been issued in the u.s. proposals for alternative reference rates for other currencies have also been announced or have already begun publication. markets are slowly developing in response to these new rates and questions around liquidity in these rates and how to appropriately adjust these rates to eliminate any economic value transfer at the time of transition remain a significant concern for us and others in the marketplace. the effect of any changes or reforms to libor or discontinuation of libor on new or existing financial instruments to which we have exposure or the activities in our businesses will vary depending on (1) existing fallback provisions in individual contracts and (2) whether, how, and when industry participants develop and widely adopt new reference rates and fallbacks for both legacy and new products or instruments. accordingly, it is difficult to predict the full impact of the transition away from libor on certain derivatives and floating rate securities we hold, securities we have issued, real estate lending, and other activities we conduct in pgim, and any other assets or liabilities, as well as contractual rights and obligations, whose value is tied to libor. the value or profitability of these products and instruments may be adversely affected. the changing competitive landscape may adversely affect the company. in each of our businesses we face intense competition from insurance companies, asset managers and diversified financial institutions, both for the ultimate customers for our products and, in many businesses, for distribution through non-affiliated distribution channels. technological advances, changing customer expectations, including related to digital offerings, or other changes in the marketplace may present opportunities for new or smaller competitors without established products or distribution channels to meet consumers' increased expectations more efficiently than us. fintech and insurtech companies have the potential to disrupt industries globally, and many participants have been partially funded by industry players. for example, in pgim, we expect to see continued pressure on fees given the focus on passive investment and the growth of the robo-advice channel. climate change may increase the severity and frequency of calamities, or adversely affect our investment portfolio. climate change may increase the frequency and severity of weather related disasters and pandemics. in addition, climate change regulation may affect the prospects of companies and other entities whose securities we hold, or our willingness to continue to hold their securities. it may also impact other counterparties, including reinsurers, and affect the value of investments, including real estate investments we hold or manage for others. we cannot predict the long-term impacts on us from climate change or related regulation. market conditions and other factors may adversely impact product sales or increase expenses. examples include: a change in market conditions, such as high inflation and high interest rates, could cause a change in consumer sentiment and behavior adversely affecting sales and persistency of our savings and protection products. conversely, low inflation and low interest rates could cause persistency of these products to vary from that anticipated and adversely affect profitability. similarly, changing economic conditions and unfavorable public perception of financial institutions can influence customer behavior, including increasing claims or surrenders in certain products. 42 table of contents sales of our investment-based and asset management products and services may decline, and lapses and surrenders of certain insurance products and withdrawals of assets from investment products may increase if a market downturn, increased market volatility or other market conditions result in customers becoming dissatisfied with their investments or products. changes in our discount rate, expected rate of return, life expectancy, health care cost and assumptions regarding compensation increases for our pension and other postretirement benefit plans may result in increased expenses and reduce our profitability. our reputation may be adversely impacted if any of the risks described in this section are realized. reputational risk could manifest from any of the risks as identified in the company's risk identification process. failure to effectively manage risks across a broad range of risk issues exposes the company to reputational harm. if the company were to suffer a significant loss in reputation, both policyholders and counterparties could seek to exit existing relationships. additionally, large changes in credit worthiness, especially credit ratings, could impact access to funding markets while creating additional collateral requirements for existing relationships. the mismanagement of any such risks may potentially damage our reputational asset. our business is anchored in the strength of our brand, our alignment to our values, and our proven commitment to keep our promises to our customers. any negative public perception, founded or otherwise, can be widely and rapidly shared over social media or other means, and could cause damage to our reputation. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 142 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk market risk is defined as the risk of loss from changes in interest rates, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates resulting from asset/liability mismatches where the change in the value of our liabilities is not offset by the change in value of our assets. 142 table of contents for additional information regarding the potential impacts of interest rate and other market fluctuations, as well as general economic and market conditions on our businesses and profitability, see item 1a. risk factors above. for additional information regarding the overall management of our general account investments and our asset mix strategies, see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations general account investments management of investments above. for additional information regarding our liquidity and capital resources, which may be impacted by changing market risks, see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources above. market risk management management of market risk, which we consider to be a combination of both investment risk and market risk exposures, includes the identification and measurement of various forms of risk, the establishment of risk thresholds and the creation of processes intended to maintain risks within these thresholds while optimizing returns on the underlying assets or liabilities. our risk management process utilizes a variety of tools and techniques, including: measures of price sensitivity to market changes (e.g., interest rates, equity index prices, foreign exchange); asset/liability management; stress scenario testing; hedging programs; and risk management governance, including policies, limits, and a committee that oversees investment and market risk. for additional information regarding our overall risk management framework and governance structure, see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations risk management above. market risk mitigation risk mitigation takes three primary forms: asset/liability management: managing assets to liability-based measures. for example, investment policies identify target durations for assets based on liability characteristics and asset portfolios are managed to within ranges around them. this mitigates potential unanticipated economic losses from interest rate movements. hedging: using derivatives to offset risk exposures. for example, for our variable annuities, potential living benefit claims resulting from more severe market conditions are hedged using derivative instruments. management of portfolio concentration risk. for example, ongoing monitoring and management at the enterprise level of key rate, currency and other concentration risks support diversification efforts to mitigate exposure to individual markets and sources of risk. market risk related to interest rates we perform liability-driven investing and engage in careful asset/liability management. asset/liability mismatches create the risk that changes in liability values will differ from the changes in the value of the related assets. additionally, changes in interest rates may impact other items including, but not limited to, the following: net investment spread between the amounts that we are required to pay and the rate of return we are able to earn on investments for certain products supported by general account investments; asset-based fees earned on assets under management or contractholder account values; estimated total gross profits and the amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs; net exposure to the guarantees provided under certain products; and capital levels of our regulated entities. we use duration and convexity analyses to measure price sensitivity to interest rate changes. duration measures the relative sensitivity of the fair value of a financial instrument to changes in interest rates. convexity measures the rate of change of duration with respect to changes in interest rates. we use asset/liability management and derivative strategies to manage our interest rate exposure by legal entity by matching the relative sensitivity of asset and liability values to interest rate changes, or controlling duration mismatch of assets and liability duration targets. in certain markets, capital market limitations that hinder our ability to acquire assets that approximate the duration of some of our liabilities are considered in setting duration targets. we consider risk-based capital and tax implications as well as current market conditions in our asset/liability management strategies. 143 table of contents we assess the impact of interest rate movements on the value of our financial assets, financial liabilities and derivatives using hypothetical test scenarios that assume either upward or downward 100 basis point parallel shifts in the yield curve from prevailing interest rates, reflecting changes in either credit spreads or the risk-free rate. the following table sets forth the net estimated potential loss in fair value on these financial instruments from a hypothetical 100 basis point upward shift as of december 31, 2018 and 2017 . this table is presented on a gross basis and excludes offsetting impacts to insurance liabilities that are not considered financial liabilities under u.s gaap. this scenario results in the greatest net exposure to interest rate risk of the hypothetical scenarios tested at those dates. while the test scenario is for illustrative purposes only and does not reflect our expectations regarding future interest rates or the performance of fixed income markets, it is a near-term, reasonably possible hypothetical change that illustrates the potential impact of such events. these test scenarios do not measure the changes in value that could result from non-parallel shifts in the yield curve which we would expect to produce different changes in discount rates for different maturities. as a result, the actual loss in fair value from a 100 basis point change in interest rates could be different from that indicated by these calculations. the estimated changes in fair values do not include separate account assets. as of december 31, 2018 as of december 31, 2017 notional fair value hypothetical change in fair value notional fair value hypothetical change in fair value (in millions) financial assets with interest rate risk: fixed maturities(1) $ 378,850 $ (37,691 ) $ 372,926 $ (36,554 ) commercial mortgage and other loans 59,978 (2,936 ) 57,341 (2,832 ) derivatives with interest rate risk: swaps $ 201,872 5,164 (4,455 ) $ 210,137 4,735 (3,824 ) futures 15,139 13 (778 ) 24,502 24 (1,081 ) options 83,198 (337 ) 387 54,522 188 188 forwards 26,220 230 (256 ) 25,948 (94 ) 0 synthetic gics 79,215 2 0 77,290 (1 ) (1 ) variable annuity and other living benefit feature embedded derivatives(2) (8,926 ) 5,030 (8,720 ) 5,706 financial liabilities with interest rate risk(3): short-term and long-term debt (20,484 ) 3,095 (21,144 ) 3,180 policyholders' account balances investment contracts (98,428 ) 3,367 (100,186 ) 3,561 net estimated potential loss $ (34,237 ) $ (31,657 ) __________ (1) includes assets classified as fixed maturities, available-for-sale, at fair value, assets supporting experience-rated contractholder liabilities, at fair value and fixed maturities, trading, at fair value. approximately $354 billion and $370 billion as of december 31, 2018 and 2017 , respectively, of fixed maturities are classified as available-for-sale. (2) excludes any offsetting impact of derivative instruments purchased to hedge changes in the embedded derivatives. amounts reported net of third-party reinsurance. (3) excludes approximately $324 billion and $306 billion as of december 31, 2018 and 2017 , respectively, of insurance reserve and deposit liabilities which are not considered financial liabilities. we believe that the interest rate sensitivities of these insurance liabilities would serve as an offset to the net interest rate risk of the financial assets and liabilities, including investment contracts. under u.s. gaap, the fair value of the embedded derivatives for certain variable annuity and other living benefit features, reflected in the table above, includes the impact of the market's perception of our npr. for more information on npr related to the sensitivity of the embedded derivatives to our npr credit spread, see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations accounting policies &amp; pronouncements application of critical accounting estimates sensitivities for insurance assets and liabilities above. for an additional discussion of our variable annuity optional living benefit guarantees accounted for as embedded derivatives and related derivatives used to hedge the changes in fair value of these embedded derivatives, see market risk related to certain variable annuity products below. for additional information about the key estimates and assumptions used in our determination of fair value, see note 6 to the consolidated financial statements. for information on the impacts of a sustained low interest rate environment, see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations executive summary impact of a low interest rate environment above. market risk related to equity prices 144 table of contents we have exposure to equity risk through asset/liability mismatches, including our investments in equity securities held in our general account investment portfolio and unhedged exposure in our insurance liabilities, principally related to certain variable annuity living benefit feature embedded derivatives. our equity-based derivatives primarily hedge the equity risk embedded in these living benefit feature embedded derivatives, and are also part of our capital hedging program. changes in equity prices create risk that the resulting changes in asset values will differ from the changes in the value of the liabilities relating to the underlying or hedged products. additionally, changes in equity prices may impact other items including, but not limited to, the following: asset-based fees earned on assets under management or contractholder account value; estimated total gross profits and the amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs; and net exposure to the guarantees provided under certain products. we manage equity risk against benchmarks in respective markets. we benchmark our return on equity holdings against a blend of market indices, mainly the s&amp;p 500 and russell 2000 for u.s. equities. we benchmark foreign equities against the tokyo price index, and the msci eafe, a market index of european, australian, and far eastern equities. we target price sensitivities that approximate those of the benchmark indices. we estimate our equity risk from a hypothetical 10% decline in equity benchmark market levels. the following table sets forth the net estimated potential loss in fair value from such a decline as of december 31, 2018 and 2017 . while these scenarios are for illustrative purposes only and do not reflect our expectations regarding future performance of equity markets or of our equity portfolio, they represent near-term reasonably possible hypothetical changes that illustrate the potential impact of such events. these scenarios consider only the direct impact on fair value of declines in equity benchmark market levels and not changes in asset-based fees recognized as revenue, changes in our estimates of total gross profits used as a basis for amortizing deferred policy acquisition and other costs, or changes in any other assumptions such as market volatility or mortality, utilization or persistency rates in our variable annuity contracts that could also impact the fair value of our living benefit features. in addition, these scenarios do not reflect the impact of basis risk, such as potential differences in the performance of the investment funds underlying the variable annuity products relative to the market indices we use as a basis for developing our hedging strategy. the impact of basis risk could result in larger differences between the change in fair value of the equity-based derivatives and the related living benefit features in comparison to these scenarios. in calculating these amounts, we exclude separate account equity securities. as of december 31, 2018 as of december 31, 2017 notional fair value hypothetical change in fair value notional fair value hypothetical change in fair value (in millions) equity securities(1) $ 7,560 $ (756 ) $ 8,972 $ (897 ) equity-based derivatives(2) $ 77,143 867 1,528 $ 52,275 (128 ) 1,373 variable annuity and other living benefit feature embedded derivatives(2)(3) (8,926 ) (1,497 ) (8,720 ) (1,423 ) net estimated potential loss $ (725 ) $ (947 ) __________ (1) includes equity securities classified as assets supporting experience-rated contractholder liabilities and equity securities, at fair value. (2) the notional and fair value of equity-based derivatives and the fair value of variable annuity and other living benefit feature embedded derivatives are also reflected in amounts under market risk related to interest rates above, and are not cumulative. (3) excludes any offsetting impact of derivative instruments purchased to hedge changes in the embedded derivatives. amounts reported net of third-party reinsurance. market risk related to foreign currency exchange rates as a u.s.-based company with significant business operations outside of the u.s., particularly in japan, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk related to these operations, as well as in our general account investment portfolio and other proprietary investment portfolios. 145 table of contents for our international insurance operations, changes in foreign currency exchange rates create risk that we may experience volatility in the u.s. dollar-equivalent earnings and equity of these operations. we actively manage this risk through various hedging strategies, including the use of foreign currency hedges and through holding u.s. dollar-denominated securities in the investment portfolios of certain of these operations. additionally, our japanese insurance operations offer a variety of non-yen denominated products which are supported by investments in corresponding currencies. while these non-yen denominated assets are economically matched to the currency of the product liabilities, the accounting treatment may differ for changes in the value of these assets and liabilities due to moves in foreign currency exchange rates, resulting in volatility in reported u.s. gaap earnings. this volatility has been mitigated by disaggregating the u.s. and australian dollar-denominated businesses in gibraltar life into separate divisions, each with its own functional currency that aligns with the underlying products and investments. for certain of our international insurance operations outside of japan, we elect to not hedge the risk of changes in our equity investments due to foreign exchange rate movements. for further information, see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations impact of foreign currency exchange rates impact of products denominated in non-local currencies on u.s. gaap earnings above. for our domestic general account investment portfolios supporting our u.s. insurance operations and other proprietary investment portfolios, our foreign currency exchange rate risk arises primarily from investments that are denominated in foreign currencies. we manage this risk by hedging substantially all domestic foreign currency denominated fixed income investments into u.s. dollars. we generally do not hedge all of the foreign currency risk of our investments in equity securities of unaffiliated foreign entities. we manage our foreign currency exchange rate risks within specified limits, and estimate our exposure, excluding equity in our japanese insurance operations, to a hypothetical 10% change in foreign currency exchange rates. the following table sets forth the net estimated potential loss in fair value from such a change as of december 31, 2018 and 2017 . while these scenarios are for illustrative purposes only and do not reflect our expectations regarding future changes in foreign exchange markets, they represent reasonably possible near-term hypothetical changes that illustrate the potential impact of such events. as of december 31, 2018 as of december 31, 2017 fair value hypothetical change in fair value fair value hypothetical change in fair value (in millions) unhedged portion of equity investment in international subsidiaries and foreign currency denominated investments in domestic general account portfolio $ 5,414 $ 541 $ 6,345 $ (635 ) for additional information, see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations general account investments portfolio composition and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations results of operations by segment international insurance division above. derivatives we use derivative financial instruments primarily to reduce market risk from changes in interest rates, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates, including their use to alter interest rate or foreign currency exposures arising from mismatches between assets and liabilities. our derivatives primarily include swaps, futures, options and forward contracts that are exchange-traded or contracted in the otc market. our derivatives also include interest rate guarantees we provide on our synthetic gic products. synthetic gics simulate the performance of traditional insurance-related gics but are accounted for as derivatives under u.s. gaap due to the fact that the policyholders own the underlying assets, and we only provide a book value wrap on the customers' funds, which are held in a client-owned trust. since these wraps provide payment of guaranteed principal and interest to the customer, changes in interest rates create risk such that declines in the market value of customers' funds would increase our net exposure to these guarantees; however, our obligation is limited to payments that are in excess of the existing customers' fund value. additionally, we have the ability to periodically reset crediting rates, subject to a 0% minimum floor, as well as the ability to increase prices. further, our contract provisions provide that, although participants may withdraw funds at book value, contractholder withdrawals may only occur at market value immediately, or at book value over time. these factors, among others, result in these contracts experiencing minimal changes in fair value, despite a more significant notional value. 146 table of contents our derivatives also include those that are embedded in certain financial instruments, and primarily relate to certain optional living benefit features associated with our variable annuity products, as discussed in more detail in market risk related to certain variable annuity products below. for additional information on our derivative activities, see note 5 to the consolidated financial statements. market risk related to certain variable annuity products the primary risk exposures of our variable annuity contracts relate to actual deviations from, or changes to, the assumptions used in the original pricing of these products, including capital markets assumptions, such as equity market returns, interest rates and market volatility and actuarial assumptions. for our capital markets assumptions, we manage our exposure to the risk created by capital markets fluctuations through a combination of product design elements, such as an automatic rebalancing element and inclusion of certain optional living benefits in our living benefits hedging program. in addition, we consider external reinsurance a form of risk mitigation as well as our capital hedge program. certain variable annuity optional living benefit features are accounted for as embedded derivatives and recorded at fair value. the market risk sensitivities associated with u.s. gaap values of both the embedded derivatives and the related derivatives used to hedge the changes in fair value of these embedded derivatives are provided under market risk related to interest rates and market risk related to equity prices above. for additional information regarding our risk management strategies, including our living benefit hedging program and other product design elements, see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations results of operations by segment individual annuities above. 147 table of contentsrisk factors 37 risk factors you should carefully consider the following risks. these risks are not exclusive, and additional risks to which we are subject include, but are not limited to, the factors mentioned under forward-looking statements above and the risks of our businesses described elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k. many of these risks are interrelated and could occur under similar business and economic conditions, and the occurrence of certain of them may in turn cause the emergence or exacerbate the effect of others. such a combination could materially increase the severity of the impact of these risks on our businesses, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. overview the company's risk management framework documents the definition, potential manifestation, and management of its risks. the company has categorized its risks into tactical and strategic risks. tactical risks may cause damage to the company, and the company seeks to manage and mitigate them through models, metrics and the overall risk framework. the company's tactical risks include investment, insurance, market, liquidity, and operational risk. strategic risks can cause the company's fundamental business model to change, either through a shift in the businesses in which it is engaged or a change in execution. the company's strategic risks include regulatory, technological changes and other external factors. these risks, as well as the sub-risks that may impact the company, are discussed below. the company's risk management framework is described under management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations risk management. investment risk 37 table of contents our investment portfolios are subject to the risk of loss due to default or deterioration in credit quality or value. we are exposed to investment risk through our investments, which primarily consist of public and private fixed maturity securities, commercial mortgage and other loans, equity securities and alternative assets including private equity, hedge funds and real estate. for a discussion of our general account investments, see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations-general account investments. we are also exposed to investment risk through a potential counterparty default. investment risk may result from (1) economic conditions, (2) adverse capital market conditions, including disruptions in individual market sectors or a lack of buyers in the marketplace, (3) volatility, (4) credit spread changes, (5) benchmark interest rate changes, (6) changes in foreign currency exchange rates and (7) declines in value of underlying collateral. these factors may impact the credit quality, liquidity and value of our investments and derivatives, potentially resulting in higher capital charges and unrealized or realized losses. also, certain investments we hold, regardless of market conditions, are relatively illiquid and our ability to promptly sell these assets for their full value may be limited. additionally, our valuation of investments may include methodologies, inputs and assumptions which are subject to change and different interpretation and could result in changes to investment valuations that may materially impact our results of operations or financial condition. for information about the valuation of our investments, see note 6 to the consolidated financial statements. our investment portfolio is subject to credit risk, which is the risk that an obligor (or guarantor) is unable or unwilling to meet its contractual payment obligations on its fixed maturity security, loan or other obligations. credit risk may manifest in an idiosyncratic manner (i.e., specific to an individual borrower or industry) or through market-wide credit cycles. financial deterioration of the obligor increases the risk of default and may increase the capital charges required under such regimes as the naic rbc, the fsa smr or other constructs to hold the investment and in turn, potentially limit our overall capital flexibility. credit defaults (as well as credit impairments, realized losses on credit-related sales, and increases in credit related reserves) may result in losses which adversely impact earnings, capital and our ability to appropriately match our liabilities and meet future obligations. some of our insurance operations are in emerging markets where we may be required to hold capital in local sovereign obligations. investment risk is heightened in these markets, in particular for obligations that are not denominated in the local currency. for example, during 2019 argentina implemented currency controls and sought to restructure certain of its obligations, which adversely impacted our local sovereign investments. our company is subject to counterparty risk, which is the risk that the counterparty to a transaction could default or deteriorate in creditworthiness before or at the final settlement of a transaction . in the normal course of business, we enter into financial contracts to manage risks (such as derivatives to manage market risk and reinsurance treaties to manage insurance risk), improve the return on investments (such as securities lending and repurchase transactions) and provide sources of liquidity or financing (such as credit agreements, securities lending agreements and repurchase agreements). these transactions expose the company to counterparty risk. counterparties include commercial banks, investment banks, broker-dealers and insurance and reinsurance companies. in the event of a counterparty deterioration or default, the magnitude of the losses will depend on then current market conditions and the length of time required to enter into a replacement transaction with a new counterparty. losses are likely to be higher under stressed conditions. our investment portfolio is subject to equity risk, which is the risk of loss due to deterioration in market value of public equity or alternative assets . we include public equity and alternative assets (including private equity, hedge funds and real estate) in our portfolio constructions, as these asset classes can provide returns over longer periods of time, aligning with the long-term nature of certain of our liabilities. public equity and alternative assets have varying degrees of price transparency. equities traded on stock exchanges (public equities) have significant price transparency, as transactions are often required to be disclosed publicly. assets for which price transparency is more opaque include private equity (joint ventures/limited partnerships) and direct real estate. as these investments typically do not trade on public markets and indications of realizable market value may not be readily available, valuations can be infrequent and/or more volatile. a sustained decline in public equity and alternative markets may reduce the returns earned by our investment portfolio through lower than expected dividend income, property operating income, and capital gains, thereby adversely impacting earnings, capital, and product pricing assumptions. these assets may also produce volatility in earnings as a result of uneven distributions on the underlying investments. insurance risk 38 table of contents we have significant liabilities for policyholders' benefits which are subject to insurance risk. insurance risk is the risk that actual experience deviates adversely from our insurance assumptions, including mortality, morbidity, and policyholder behavior assumptions . we provide a variety of insurance products, on both an individual and group basis, that are designed to help customers protect against a variety of financial uncertainties. our insurance products protect customers against their potential risk of loss by transferring those risks to the company, where those risks can be managed more efficiently through pooling and diversification over a larger number of independent exposures. during this transfer process, we assume the risk that actual losses experienced in our insurance products deviates significantly from what we expect. more specifically, insurance risk is concerned with the deviations that impact our future liabilities. our profitability may decline if mortality experience, morbidity experience or policyholder behavior experience differ significantly from our expectations when we price our products. in addition, if we experience higher than expected claims our liquidity position may be adversely impacted, and we may incur losses on investments if we are required to sell assets in order to pay claims. if it is necessary to sell assets at a loss, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted. for a discussion of the impact of changes in insurance assumptions on our financial condition, see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations accounting policies and pronouncements application of critical accounting estimates insurance liabilities. certain of our insurance products are subject to mortality risk, which is the risk that actual deaths experienced deviate adversely from our expectations . mortality risk is a biometric risk that can manifest in the following ways: mortality calamity is the risk that mortality rates in a single year deviate adversely from what is expected as the result of pandemics, natural or man-made disasters, military actions or terrorism. a mortality calamity event will reduce our earnings and capital and we may be forced to liquidate assets before maturity in order to pay the excess claims. mortality calamity risk is more pronounced in respect of specific geographic areas (including major metropolitan centers, where we have concentrations of customers, including under group and individual life insurance), concentrations of employees or significant operations, and in respect of countries and regions in which we operate that are subject to a greater potential threat of military action or conflict. ultimate losses would depend on several factors, including the rates of mortality and morbidity among various segments of the insured population, the collectability of reinsurance, the possible macroeconomic effects on our investment portfolio, the effect on lapses and surrenders of existing policies, as well as sales of new policies and other variables. mortality trend is the risk that mortality improvements in the future deviate adversely from what is expected. mortality trend is a long-term risk in that it can emerge gradually over time. longevity products, such as annuities, pension risk transfer and long-term care, may experience adverse impacts due to higher-than-expected mortality improvement. mortality products, such as life insurance, experience adverse impacts due to lower-than-expected mortality improvement. if this risk were to emerge, the company would update assumptions used to calculate reserves for in-force business, which may result in additional assets needed to meet the higher expected annuity claims or earlier expected life claims. an increase in reserves due to revised assumptions has an immediate impact on our results of operations and financial condition; however, economically the impact is generally long term as the excess outflow is paid over time. mortality base is the risk that actual base mortality deviates adversely from what is expected in pricing and valuing our products. base mortality risk can arise from a lack of credible data on which to base the assumptions. we use a variety of strategies to manage our mortality risks, including the use of reinsurance and derivative instruments. these strategies, however, may not be fully effective and may lead to payments to counterparties in excess of recoveries depending on how actual mortality experience emerges. we may also benefit from offsetting impacts between our mortality and longevity products in adverse mortality or longevity scenarios, however the extent of this offset may vary. certain of our insurance products are subject to morbidity risk, which is the risk that either incidence or continuation experience deviates adversely from what is expected . morbidity risk is a biometric risk that can manifest in the following ways: morbidity incidence is the risk that the rate at which policyholders become unhealthy (and qualify for benefits under insurance policies) deviates adversely from what is expected. we are primarily exposed to morbidity incidence risk through short-term disability products, long-term disability products, long-term care products, and the accident and health products we sell in japan, korea and taiwan. morbidity continuation is the risk that the length of time for which policyholders remain unhealthy deviates adversely from what is expected. this risk is primarily in our disability and long-term care products. 39 table of contents in each case, an increase in claims, or an increase in reserves due to revised morbidity assumptions can have an immediate impact on our results of operations and financial condition; however, economically the impact of morbidity risk for products that pay out for ongoing illness or disability generally emerges over the longer term as the morbidity claims are paid. certain of our insurance products are subject to policyholder behavior risk, which is the risk that actual policyholder behavior deviates adversely from what is expected. policyholder behavior risk includes the following components: lapse calamity is the risk that lapse rates over the short-term deviate adversely from what is expected, for example, surrenders of certain insurance products may increase following a downgrade of our financial strength ratings or adverse publicity. only certain products are exposed to this risk. products that offer a cash surrender value that resides in the general account, such as general account stable value products, could pose a potential short-term lapse calamity risk. surrender of these products can impact liquidity, and it may be necessary in certain market conditions to sell assets to meet surrender demands. lapse calamity can also impact our earnings through its impact on estimated future profits. policyholder behavior efficiency is the risk that the behavior of our customers or policyholders deviates adversely from what is expected. policyholder behavior efficiency risk arises through product features which provide some degree of choice or flexibility for the policyholder, which can impact the amount and/or timing of claims. such choices include surrender, lapse, partial withdrawal, policy loan utilization, and premium payment rates for contracts with flexible premiums. while some behavior is driven by macro factors such as market movements, policyholder behavior at a fundamental level is driven primarily by policyholders' individual needs, which may differ significantly from product to product depending on many factors including the features offered, the approach taken to market each product, and competitor pricing. for example, persistency (the probability that a policy or contract will remain in force) within our annuities business may be significantly impacted by the value of guaranteed minimum benefits contained in many of our variable annuity products being higher than current account values in light of poor market performance as well as other factors. many of our products also provide our customers with wide flexibility with respect to the amount and timing of premium deposits and the amount and timing of withdrawals from the policy's value. results may vary based on differences between actual and expected premium deposits and withdrawals for these products, especially if these product features are relatively new to the marketplace. the pricing of certain of our variable annuity products that contain certain living benefit guarantees is also based on assumptions about utilization rates, or the percentage of contracts that will utilize the benefit during the contract duration, including the timing of the first withdrawal. results may vary based on differences between actual and expected benefit utilization. we may also be impacted by customers seeking to sell their benefits. in particular, the development of a secondary market for life insurance, including life settlements or viaticals and investor owned life insurance, and third-party investor strategies in the annuities business, could adversely affect the profitability of existing business and our pricing assumptions for new business. policyholder behavior efficiency is generally a long-term risk that emerges over time. an increase in reserves due to revised assumptions has an immediate impact on our results of operations and financial condition; however, from an economic or cash flow perspective, the impact is generally long term as the excess outflow is paid over time. our ability to reprice products is limited and may not compensate for deviations from our expected insurance assumptions. although some of our products permit us to increase premiums or adjust other charges and credits during the life of the policy or contract, the adjustments permitted under the terms of the policies or contracts may not be sufficient to maintain profitability or may cause the policies or contracts to lapse. for example, for our long-term care insurance products, our assumptions for reserves for future policy benefits have factored in an estimate of the timing and amount of anticipated and yet-to-be-filed premium rate increases which will require state approval. our actual experience obtaining pricing increases could be materially different than what we have assumed, resulting in further policy liability increases which could be material. many of our products do not permit us to increase premiums or adjust other charges and credits or limit those adjustments during the life of the policy or contract. even if permitted under the policy or contract, we may not be able or willing to raise premiums or adjust other charges sufficiently, or at all. accordingly, significant deviations in actual experience from our pricing assumptions could have an adverse effect on the profitability of our products. market risk the profitability of many of our insurance and annuity products, as well as the fees we earn in our investment management business, are subject to market risk. market risk is the risk of loss from changes in interest rates, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates. the profitability of many of our insurance and annuity products depends in part on the value of the separate accounts supporting these products, which can fluctuate substantially depending on market conditions. market conditions resulting in 40 table of contents reductions in the value of assets we manage has an adverse effect on the revenues and profitability of our investment management business, which depends on fees related primarily to the value of assets under management, and could decrease the value of our strategic investments. derivative instruments we use to hedge and manage foreign exchange, interest rate and equity market risks associated with our products and businesses, and other risks might not perform as intended or expected, resulting in higher than expected realized losses and stresses on liquidity. market conditions can limit availability of hedging instruments, require us to post additional collateral, and further increase the cost of executing product related hedges and such costs may not be recovered in the pricing of the underlying products being hedged. market risk may limit opportunities for investment of available funds at appropriate returns, including due to the current low interest rate environment, or other factors, with possible negative impacts on our overall results. limited opportunities for attractive investments may lead to holding cash for long periods of time and increased use of derivatives for duration management and other portfolio management purposes. the increased use of derivatives may increase the volatility of our u.s. gaap results and our statutory capital. our investments, results of operations and financial condition may also be adversely affected by developments in the global economy, in the u.s. economy (including as a result of actions by the federal reserve with respect to monetary policy, and adverse political developments), and in the japanese economy (including due to the effects of inflation or deflation, interest rate volatility, changes in the japan sovereign credit rating, and material changes in the value of the japanese yen relative to the u.s. dollar). global, u.s. or japanese economic activity and financial markets may in turn be negatively affected by adverse developments or conditions in specific geographical regions. for a discussion of the impact of changes in market conditions on our financial condition see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. our insurance and annuity products and certain of our investment products, and our investment returns, are subject to interest rate risk, which is the risk of loss arising from asset/liability duration mismatches within our general account investments as well as invested assets of other entities and operations . the risk of mismatch in asset/liability duration is mainly driven by the specific dynamics of product liabilities. some product liabilities are expected to have only modest risk related to interest rates because cash flows can be matched by available assets in the investable space. the interest rate risk emerges primarily from their tail cash flows (30 years or more), which cannot be matched by assets for sale in the marketplace, exposing the company to future reinvestment risk. in addition, certain of our products provide for recurring premiums which may be invested at interest rates lower than the rates included in our pricing assumptions. market-sensitive cash flows exist with other product liabilities including products whose cash flows can be linked to market performance through secondary guarantees, minimum crediting rates, and/or changes in insurance assumptions. our exposure to interest rates can manifest over years as in the case of earnings compression or in the short term by creating volatility in both earnings and capital. for example, some of our products expose us to the risk that changes in interest rates will reduce the spread between the amounts that we are required to pay under contracts and the rate of return we are able to earn on our general account investments supporting these contracts. when interest rates decline or remain low, as they have in recent years, we must invest in lower-yielding instruments, potentially reducing net investment income and constraining our ability to offer certain products. this risk is increased as more policyholders may retain their policies in a low rate environment. since many of our policies and contracts have guaranteed minimum crediting rates or limit the resetting of crediting rates, the spreads could decrease or go negative. alternatively, when interest rates rise, we may not be able to replace the assets in our general account with the higher-yielding assets as quickly as needed to fund the higher crediting rates necessary to keep these products and contracts competitive. it is possible that fewer policyholders may retain their policies and annuity contracts as they pursue higher crediting rates, which could expose the company to losses and liquidity stress. in addition, rising interest rates could cause a decline in the market value of fixed income assets the company manages which in turn could result in lower asset management fees earned. our mitigation efforts with respect to interest rate risk are primarily focused on maintaining an investment portfolio with diversified maturities that has a key rate duration profile that is approximately equal to the key rate duration profile of our liability and surplus benchmarks; however, these benchmarks are based on estimates of the liability cash flow profiles which are complex and could turn out to be inaccurate, especially when markets are volatile. in addition, there are practical and capital market limitations on our ability to accomplish this matching. due to these and other factors we may need to liquidate investments prior to maturity at a loss in order to satisfy liabilities or be forced to reinvest funds in a lower rate environment. 41 table of contents our significant business operations outside the u.s. subject us to foreign exchange risk, which is the risk of loss arising from assets that are invested in a different currency than the related liability, as well as the unhedged portion of the company's earnings from, and capital supporting, operations in a foreign currency . as a u.s.-based company with significant business operations outside of the u.s., particularly in japan, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk related to these operations, as well as in our investment portfolio. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect our profitability, financial condition and cash flows, as well as increase the volatility of our results of operations under u.s. gaap. in the short-term, solvency margins in our japan businesses can also be impacted by fluctuations in exchange rates. for our international businesses' operations, our retirement segment's earnings on non-u.s. dollar-denominated longevity reinsurance contracts and pgim's investment activities based in currencies other than the u.s. dollar, changes in foreign currency exchange rates create risk that we may experience volatility in the u.s. dollar-equivalent earnings and equity of these operations. we seek to manage this risk through various hedging strategies, including the use of foreign currency hedges and through holding u.s. dollar-denominated securities in the investment portfolios of certain of these operations. additionally, our japanese insurance operations offer a variety of non-japanese yen denominated products. we seek to mitigate this risk by holding investments in corresponding currencies. for certain of our international insurance operations outside of japan, we elect to not hedge the risk of changes in our subsidiary equity investments due to foreign exchange rate movements. for our domestic investment portfolios supporting our u.s. insurance operations and other proprietary investment portfolios, our foreign currency exchange rate risk arises primarily from investments that are denominated in foreign currencies. we manage this risk by hedging substantially all domestic foreign currency-denominated fixed-income investments into u.s. dollars. we generally do not hedge all of the foreign currency risk of our investments in equity securities of unaffiliated foreign entities. the value and liquidity of our foreign currency investments could be adversely affected by local market, economic and financial conditions. for example, our investments denominated in euro could be adversely affected by unfavorable economic conditions in europe, including due to potential changes in the euro or to the structure or membership of the european union, and in 2016 we experienced volatility in u.k. and other european union related investments as a result of the u.k.'s referendum to exit the european union. the outcome of the negotiations between the u.k. and the european union on the terms of the exit will determine the ultimate impact of the exit on our european operations and investments in those jurisdictions and may lead to volatility in currency exchange rates and asset prices, as well as changes in regulation. there can be no assurance that our hedging and other strategies will effectively mitigate foreign exchange risk. for a discussion of our hedging program and the impact of foreign currency exchange rates on our business, see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations impact of foreign currency exchange rates. for a discussion of the impact of the u.k.'s exit from the european union on our operations, see business regulation international investment and retirement products and investment management operations. guarantees within certain of our products, in particular our variable annuities and to a lesser extent certain individual life and international insurance products, are market sensitive and may decrease our earnings or increase the volatility of our results of operations or financial position under u.s. gaap. certain of our products, particularly our variable annuity products and to a lesser extent certain individual life and international insurance products, include guarantees of minimum surrender values or income streams for stated periods or for life, which may be in excess of account values. downturns in equity markets, increased equity volatility, increased credit spreads, or (as discussed above) reduced interest rates could result in an increase in the valuation of liabilities associated with such guarantees, resulting in increases in reserves and reductions in net income. we use a variety of hedging and risk management strategies, including product features, to mitigate these risks in part and we may periodically change our strategies over time. these strategies may, however, not be fully effective. in addition, we may be unable or may choose not to fully hedge these risks. hedging instruments may not effectively offset the costs of guarantees or may otherwise be insufficient in relation to our obligations. hedging instruments also may not change in value correspondingly with associated liabilities due to equity market or interest rate conditions, non-performance risk or other reasons. we may choose to hedge these risks on a basis that does not correspond to their anticipated or actual impact upon our results of operations or financial position under u.s. gaap. changes from period to period in the valuation of these policy benefits, and in the amount of our obligations effectively hedged, will result in volatility in our results of operations and financial position under u.s. gaap and the statutory capital levels of our insurance subsidiaries. estimates and assumptions we make in connection with hedging activities may fail to reflect or correspond to our actual long-term exposure from our guarantees. further, the risk of increases in the costs of our guarantees not covered by our hedging and other capital and risk management strategies may become more significant due to changes in policyholder behavior driven by market conditions or other factors. the above factors, individually or collectively, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. our valuation of the liabilities for the minimum benefits contained in many of our variable annuity products requires us to consider the market perception of our risk of non-performance, and a decrease in our own credit spreads resulting from ratings 42 table of contents upgrades or other events or market conditions could cause the recorded value of these liabilities to increase, which in turn could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. liquidity risk as a financial services company, we are exposed to liquidity risk, which is the risk that the company is unable to meet near-term obligations as they come due. liquidity risk is a manifestation of events that are driven by other risk types (market, insurance, investment, operational). a liquidity shortfall may arise in the event of insufficient funding sources or an immediate and significant need for cash or collateral. in addition, it is possible that expected liquidity sources, such as our credit facilities, may be unavailable or inadequate to satisfy the liquidity demands described below. the company has four primary sources of liquidity exposure and associated drivers that trigger material liquidity demand. those sources are: derivative collateral market exposure: abrupt changes to interest rate, equity, and/or currency markets may increase collateral requirements to counterparties and create liquidity risk for the company. asset liability mismatch: there are liquidity risks associated with liabilities coming due prior to the matching asset cash flows. structural maturities mismatch can occur in activities such as securities lending, where the liabilities are effectively overnight open transactions used to fund longer term assets. wholesale funding: the company depends upon the financial markets for funding (such as through the issuance of commercial paper, securities lending and repurchase arrangements and other forms of borrowings in the capital markets). these sources might not be available during times of stress, or may only be available on unfavorable terms, which can result in a decrease in our profitability and a significant reduction in our financial flexibility. insurance cash flows: the company faces potential liquidity risks from unexpected cash demands due to severe mortality calamity, customer withdrawals or lapse events. if such events were to occur, the company may face unexpectedly high levels of claim payments to policyholders. for a discussion of the company's liquidity and sources and uses of liquidity, including information about legal and regulatory limits on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends, see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources liquidity. operational risk our operations are exposed to the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed processes or systems, human error or misconduct, and as a result of external events. an operational risk failure may result in one or more actual or potential impacts to the company. operational risk may be elevated as a result of organizational changes. operational risk types processes: processing failure; failure to safeguard or retain documents/records; errors in valuation/pricing models and processes; project management or execution failures; improper sales practices; improper administration of our products; failure to adhere to clients' investment guidelines. systems: failures during the development and implementation of new systems; systems failures. people: internal fraud, breaches of employment law, unauthorized activities; loss or lack of key personnel, inadequate training; inadequate supervision. external events: external crime; cyber-attack, outsourcing risk; vendor risk; natural and other disasters; changes in laws/regulations. legal: legal and regulatory compliance failures. potential impacts financial losses: the company experiences a financial loss. this loss may originate from various causes including, but not limited to, transaction processing errors and fraud. customer impacts: the company may not be able to service customers. this may result if the company is unable to continue operations during a business continuation event or if systems are compromised due to malware or virus. 43 table of contents regulatory fines or sanctions: when the company fails to comply with applicable laws or regulations, regulatory fines or sanctions may be imposed. in addition, possible restrictions on business activities may result. legal actions: failure to comply with laws and regulations also exposes the company to litigation risk. this may also result in financial losses. liabilities we may incur as a result of operational failures are described further under contingent liabilities in note 23 to the consolidated financial statements. in addition, certain pending regulatory and litigation matters affecting us, and certain risks to our businesses presented by such matters, are discussed in note 23 to the consolidated financial statements. we may become subject to additional regulatory and legal actions in the future. key enterprise operational risks - key enterprise operational risks include the following: we are subject to business continuation risk, which is the risk that our systems and data may be disrupted. we depend heavily on our telecommunication, information technology and other operational systems and on the integrity and timeliness of data we use to run our businesses and service our customers. these systems may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events or circumstances wholly or partly beyond our control. further, we face the risk of operational and technology failures by others, including clearing agents, exchanges and other financial intermediaries and of vendors and parties to which we outsource the provision of services or business operations. we may experience a business continuation event as a result of: severe pandemic, either naturally occurring or intentionally manipulated pathogens. geo-political risks, including armed conflict and civil unrest. terrorist events. significant natural or accidental disasters. cyber-attacks. we are subject to the risk that we may not adequately maintain information security . there continues to be significant and organized cyber-attack activity against western organizations, including but not limited to the financial services sector and no organization is fully immune to cyber-attacks. risks related to cyber-attack arise in the following areas: protecting both structured and unstructured sensitive information is a constant need. however, some risks cannot be fully mitigated using technology or otherwise. unsuspecting employees represent a primary avenue for external parties to gain access to our network and systems. many attacks, even from sophisticated actors, include rudimentary techniques such as coaxing an internal user to click on a malicious attachment or link to introduce malware or steal their username and password. insurance and retirement services companies are increasingly being targeted by hackers and fraudulent actors seeking to monetize personally identifiable information or extort money. nation-state sponsored organizations are engaged in cyber-attacks but not only for monetization purposes. nation states appear to be motivated by the desire to gain information about foreign citizens and governments or to influence or cause disruptions in commerce or political affairs. we have also seen an increase in non-technical attempts to commit fraud or solicit information via call centers and interactive voice response systems, and we anticipate the attempts will become more common. we rely on third-parties to provide services as described further below. while we maintain certain standards for all vendors that provide us services, our vendors, and in turn, their own service providers, may become subject to a security breach, including as a result of their failure to perform in accordance with contractual arrangements. we may not adequately ensure the privacy of sensitive data. in the course of our ordinary business we collect, store and share with various third-parties (e.g., service providers, reinsurers, etc.) substantial amounts of private and confidential information, including in some instances sensitive health-related information. we are subject to the risk that the privacy of this information may be compromised, including as a result of an information security breach described above. any compromise or perceived compromise of our security by us or by one of our vendors could damage our reputation, cause the termination of relationships with distributors, government-run health insurance exchanges, marketing partners and insurance carriers, reduce demand for our services and subject us to significant liability and expense as well as regulatory action and lawsuits, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. third-parties (outsourcing providers, vendors and suppliers and joint venture partners) present added operational risk to our enterprise. the company's business model relies heavily on the use of third-parties to deliver contracted services in a broad range of areas. this presents the risk that the company is unable to meet legal, regulatory, financial or customer obligations because third-parties fail to deliver contracted services, or that the company is exposed to reputational damage because third-parties operate in a poorly controlled manner. we use affiliates and third-party vendors located outside the u.s. to provide certain services and 44 table of contents functions, which also exposes us to business disruptions and political risks as a result of risks inherent in conducting business outside of the u.s. in our investments in which we hold a minority interest, or that are managed by third-parties, we lack management and operational control over operations, which may subject us to additional operational, compliance and legal risks and prevent us from taking or causing to be taken actions to protect or increase the value of those investments. in those jurisdictions where we are constrained by law from owning a majority interest in jointly owned operations, our remedies in the event of a breach by a joint venture partner may be limited (e.g., we may have no ability to exercise a call option). affiliate and third-party distributors of our products present added regulatory, competitive and other risks to our enterprise. our products are sold primarily through our captive/affiliated distributors and third-party distributing firms. we also distribute third-parties' products through our captive/affiliate distributors, including as part of our assurance iq business. our captive/affiliated distributors are made up of large numbers of decentralized sales personnel who are compensated based on commissions. the third-party distributing firms generally are not dedicated to us exclusively and may frequently recommend and/or market products of our competitors. accordingly, we must compete intensely for their services. our sales could be adversely affected if we are unable to attract, retain or motivate third-party distributing firms or if we do not adequately provide support, training, compensation, and education to this sales network regarding our products, or if our products are not competitive and not appropriately aligned with consumer needs. while third-party distributing firms have an independent regulatory accountability, some regulators have been clear with expectations that product manufacturers retain significant sales risk accountability. the company and our distributors are subject to rules regarding the standard of care applicable to sales of our products and the provision of advice to our customers, and in recent years many of these rules have been revised or re-examined. in addition, there have been a number of investigations regarding the marketing practices of brokers and agents selling annuity and insurance products and the payments they receive. furthermore, sales practices and investor protection have increasingly become areas of focus in regulatory examinations. these investigations and examinations have resulted in enforcement actions against companies in our industry and brokers and agents marketing and selling those companies' products. enforcement actions could result in penalties and the imposition of corrective action plans and/or changes to industry practices, which could adversely affect our ability to market our products. if our products are distributed in an inappropriate manner, or to customers for whom they are unsuitable, or distributors of our products otherwise engage in misconduct, we may suffer reputational and other harm to our business and be subject to regulatory action, penalties or damages. our business may also be harmed if captive/affiliate distributors engage in inappropriate conduct in connection with the sale of third-party products. additionally, certain of our affiliated distributors engage in direct marketing to consumers through telemarketing, email marketing and other lead generation activities that subject us to various federal and state telemarketing regulations, including the telephone consumer protection act. violations of these regulations could subject our affiliated distributors to litigation and regulatory inquiries that result in penalties or damages. many of our distribution personnel are independent contractors or franchisees. from time to time, their status has been challenged in courts and by government agencies, and various legislative or regulatory proposals have been introduced addressing the criteria for determining the status of independent contractors' classification as employees for, among other things, employment tax purposes or other employment benefits. the costs associated with potential changes with respect to these independent contractor and franchisee classifications have impacted our results previously and could have a material adverse effect on our business in the future. although we distribute our products through a wide variety of distribution channels, we do maintain relationships with certain key distributors. for example, a significant amount of our sales in japan through banks is derived through a single major japanese bank and a significant portion of our sales in japan through life consultants is derived through a single association relationship. we periodically negotiate the terms of these relationships, and there can be no assurance that such terms will remain acceptable to us or such third-parties. an interruption in certain key relationships could materially affect our ability to market our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. distributors may elect to reduce or terminate their distribution relationships with us, including for such reasons as adverse developments in our business, adverse rating agency actions or concerns about market-related risks. we are also at risk that key distribution partners may merge, change their business models in ways that affect how our products are sold, or terminate their distribution contracts with us, or that new distribution channels could emerge and adversely impact the effectiveness of our distribution efforts. an increase in bank and broker-dealer consolidation activity could increase competition for access to distributors, result in greater distribution expenses and impair our ability to market products through these channels. consolidation of distributors and/or other industry changes may also increase the likelihood that distributors will try to renegotiate the terms of any existing selling agreements to terms less favorable to us. finally, we also may be challenged by new technologies and marketplace entrants that could interfere with our existing relationships. 45 table of contents as a financial services company, we are exposed to model risk, which is the risk of financial loss or reputational damage or adverse regulatory impacts caused by model errors or limitations, incorrect implementation of models, or misuse of or overreliance upon models. models are utilized by our businesses and corporate areas primarily to project future cash flows associated with pricing products, calculating reserves and valuing assets, as well as in evaluating risk and determining capital requirements, among other uses. these models may not operate properly and may rely on assumptions and projections that are inherently uncertain. as our businesses continue to grow and evolve, the number and complexity of models we utilize expands, increasing our exposure to error in the design, implementation or use of models, including the associated input data and assumptions. we may not be able to protect our intellectual property and may be subject to infringement claims. we rely on a combination of contractual rights with employees and third-parties and on copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws to establish and protect our intellectual property. although we endeavor to protect our rights, third-parties may infringe or misappropriate our intellectual property. we may have to litigate to enforce and protect our copyrights, trademarks, patents, trade secrets and know-how or to determine their scope, validity or enforceability. this would represent a diversion of resources that may be significant, and our efforts may not prove successful. the inability to secure or protect our intellectual property assets could have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to compete. we may be subject to claims by third-parties for (i) copyright, trademark or patent infringement; (ii) breach of copyright, trademark or license usage rights; or (iii) misappropriation of trade secrets. any such claims and any resulting litigation could result in significant expense and liability for damages. if we were found to have infringed or misappropriated a third-party patent or other intellectual property right, we could in some circumstances be enjoined from providing certain products or services to our customers or from utilizing and benefiting from certain methods, processes, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets or licenses. alternatively, we could be required to enter into costly licensing arrangements with third-parties or implement a costly work around. any of these scenarios could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. strategic risk we are subject to the risk of events that can cause our fundamental business model to change, either through a shift in the businesses in which we are engaged or a change in our execution. in addition, tactical risks may become strategic risks. for example, we must consider the impact of the prolonged low interest rate environment on new product development and continued sales of interest sensitive products. changes in the regulatory landscape may be unsettling to our business model. new laws and regulations are being considered in the u.s. and our other countries of operation at an increasing pace, as there has been greater scrutiny on financial regulation over the past several years. proposed or unforeseen changes in law or regulation may adversely impact our business. see business-regulation for a discussion of certain recently enacted and pending proposals by international, federal and state regulatory authorities and their potential impact on our business, including in the following areas: financial sector regulatory reform. u.s. federal, state and local and non-u.s. tax laws, including beat and gilti. fiduciary rules and other standards of care. our regulation under u.s. state insurance laws and developments regarding group-wide supervision and capital standards, accounting rules, rbc factors for invested assets and reserves for life insurance, variable annuities and other products. insurer capital standards in japan, korea and other non-u.s. jurisdictions. privacy and cybersecurity regulation. changes in accounting rules applicable to our business may also have an adverse impact on our results of operations or financial condition. for a discussion of accounting pronouncements and their potential impact on our business, including accounting standards update ( asu ) 2018-12, financial services - insurance (topic 944): targeted improvements to the accounting for long-duration contracts, see note 2 to the consolidated financial statements. changes in technology and other external factors may be unsettling to our business model . we believe the following aspects of technological and other changes would significantly impact our business model. there may be other unforeseen changes in technology and the external environment which may have a significant impact on our business model. 46 table of contents interaction with customers . technology is moving rapidly and as it does, it puts pressure on existing business models. some of the changes we can anticipate are increased choices about how customers want to interact with the company or how they want the company to interact with them. evolving customer preferences may drive a need to redesign products. our distribution channels may change to become more automated, at the place and time of the customer's choosing. such changes clearly have the potential to disrupt our business model. investment portfolio . technology may have a significant impact on the companies in which the company invests. for example, environmental concerns spur scientific inquiry which may re-position the relative attractiveness of wind or sun power over oil and gas. the transportation industry may favor alternative modes of conveyance of goods which may shift trucking or air transport out of favor. consumers may change their purchasing behavior to favor online activity which would change the role of malls and retail properties. medical advances . the company is exposed to the impact of medical advances in two major ways. genetic testing and the availability of that information unequally to consumers and insurers can bring anti-selection risks. specifically, data from genetic testing can give our prospective customers a clearer view into their future, allowing them to select products protecting them against likelihoods of mortality or longevity with more precision. also, technologies that extend lives will challenge our actuarial assumptions especially in the annuity-based businesses. the following items are examples of other factors which could have a meaningful impact on our business. we may not realize or sustain the expected benefits from programs we have announced, and these efforts could have a materially adverse effect on our business, operations, financial condition, results of operations and competitive position. in 2019, we began implementing a multi-year plan of programs designed to accelerate margin growth. if we do not successfully manage and execute these programs, or if they are inadequate or ineffective, we may fail to meet our financial goals and achieve anticipated benefits, improvements may be delayed, not sustained or not realized and our business, operations and competitive position could be adversely affected. these programs could result in unintended consequences or unforeseen costs, including distraction of our management and employees, attrition, inability to attract or retain key personnel, and reduced employee productivity, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we are subject to risks relating to the acquisition, and post-acquisition operations, of assurance iq, inc. ( assurance iq ). in october 2019, we completed the acquisition of assurance iq (the acquisition ). for a description of assurance iq and the acquisition, see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations overview and note 1 to the consolidated financial statements. we are subject to certain risks relating to the acquisition and the ongoing operations of assurance iq, and these risks could adversely affect, possibly materially, our business, results of operations, financial position or liquidity or prevent us from realizing the expected benefits from the acquisition. these risks include the following: we may not realize the growth, earnings, cost savings, efficiencies or synergies that we anticipate. this may result in the need to recognize an impairment of goodwill which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. there is the risk that we will be exposed to obligations and liabilities of assurance iq that are not adequately covered, in amount, scope or duration, by the indemnification provisions in the merger agreement or representation and warranty insurance policy, or reflected or reserved for in the financial statements of assurance iq. there is the risk that assurance iq will lose key personnel or experience higher than expected employee attrition rates that would adversely affect the performance of the business. in addition, there is the risk that product manufacturers and independent agents on the assurance iq platform will choose to stop doing business with assurance iq. pursuant to the merger agreement, the company has agreed to take, or refrain from taking, certain actions with respect to assurance iq prior to 2023, and a violation of this agreement may accelerate payment of the full amount of contingent payments. we may experience difficulties in integrating assurance iq into our strategy and the process may take longer than expected. the integration will require the dedication of significant management resources, which may distract management's attention from day-to-day business operations. 47 table of contents changes to the policies and procedures the company uses to locate guaranteed group annuity customers and establish related reserves may adversely impact our results of operations and financial position. the company's retirement business provides guaranteed group annuity benefits under group annuity and structured settlement contracts. in the normal course of business, at any given time, there are a small number of customers that we cannot locate. under our policies and procedures, we use internal and external tools and resources to locate customers covered by our guaranteed group annuity benefits. we also have policies on the development of our reserve estimates, and we believe that we are complying with our policies and procedures and meeting our obligations to customers. in recent years the company has reviewed this issue closely and made enhancements to its policies and procedures. in addition, the company continues to regularly review, test and enhance the processes and tools used to locate customers, and over time, such processes and tools have continued to evolve. ultimately, we could see greater standardization of what may currently be divergent practices across the industry. further changes to the policies and procedures the company uses to locate customers and establish related reserves may result in increased operational expenses and complexity, and increases in reserves, which could adversely impact our results of operations and financial position. a downgrade in our financial strength or credit ratings could potentially, among other things, adversely impact our business prospects, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity . for a discussion of our ratings and the potential impact of a ratings downgrade on our business, see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations-liquidity and capital resources-ratings. we cannot predict what additional actions rating agencies may take, or what actions we may take in response to the actions of rating agencies, which could adversely affect our business. our ratings could be downgraded at any time and without notice by any rating agency. in addition, a sovereign downgrade could result in a downgrade of our subsidiaries operating in that jurisdiction, and ultimately of prudential financial and our other subsidiaries. for example, in september 2015, s&amp;p downgraded japan's sovereign rating to a+ with a 'stable' outlook citing uncertainties around the strength of economic growth and weak fiscal positions. as a result, s&amp;p subsequently lowered the ratings of a number of institutions in japan, including our japanese insurance subsidiaries. it is possible that japan's sovereign rating could be subject to further downgrades, which would result in further downgrades of our insurance subsidiaries in japan. given the importance of our operations in japan to our overall results, such downgrades could lead to a downgrade of prudential financial and our domestic insurance companies. the elimination of london inter-bank offered rate ( libor ) may adversely affect certain derivatives and floating rate securities we hold and floating rate securities we have issued, certain real estate lending and other activities conducted in pgim, and any other assets or liabilities whose value is tied to libor. actions by regulators have resulted in the establishment of alternative reference rates to libor in most major currencies. it is expected that the u.k. financial conduct authority will stop persuading or compelling banks to submit libor rates after 2021. however, it remains unclear if, how and in what form, libor will continue to exist. the u.s. federal reserve, based on the recommendations of the new york federal reserve's alternative reference rate committee (constituted of major derivative market participants and their regulators), has begun publishing a secured overnight funding rate ( sofr ) which is intended to replace u.s. dollar libor, and sofr-based investment products have been issued in the u.s. proposals for alternative reference rates for other currencies have also been announced or have already begun publication. markets are slowly developing in response to these new rates and questions around liquidity in these rates and how to appropriately adjust these rates to eliminate any economic value transfer at the time of transition remain a significant concern for us and others in the marketplace. the effect of any changes or reforms to libor or discontinuation of libor on new or existing financial instruments to which we have exposure or the activities in our businesses will vary depending on (1) existing fallback provisions in individual contracts and (2) whether, how, and when industry participants develop and widely adopt new reference rates and fallbacks for both legacy and new products or instruments. accordingly, it is difficult to predict the full impact of the transition away from libor on certain derivatives and floating rate securities we hold, securities we have issued, real estate lending, and other activities we conduct in pgim, and any other assets or liabilities, as well as contractual rights and obligations, whose value is tied to libor. the value or profitability of these products and instruments may be adversely affected. 48 table of contents the changing competitive landscape may adversely affect the company. in each of our businesses, we face intense competition from insurance companies, asset managers and diversified financial institutions, both for the ultimate customers for our products and, in many businesses, for distribution through non-affiliated distribution channels. technological advances, changing customer expectations, including related to digital offerings, access to customer data, or other changes in the marketplace may present opportunities for new or smaller companies without established products or distribution channels to meet consumers' increased expectations more efficiently than us. fintech and insurtech companies and companies in other industries with greater access to customers and data have the potential to disrupt industries globally, and many participants have been partially funded by industry players. for example, in pgim, we expect to see continued pressure on fees given the focus on passive investment and the growth of the robo-advice channel. climate change may increase the severity and frequency of calamities, or adversely affect our investment portfolio. climate change may increase the frequency and severity of weather related disasters and pandemics. in addition, climate change regulation may affect the prospects of companies and other entities whose securities we hold, or our willingness to continue to hold their securities. it may also impact other counterparties, including reinsurers, and affect the value of investments, including real estate investments we hold or manage for others. we cannot predict the long-term impacts on us from climate change or related regulation. market conditions and other factors may adversely impact product sales or increase expenses. examples include: a change in market conditions, such as high inflation and high interest rates, could cause a change in consumer sentiment and behavior adversely affecting sales and persistency of our savings and protection products. conversely, low inflation and low interest rates could cause persistency of these products to vary from that anticipated and adversely affect profitability. similarly, changing economic conditions and unfavorable public perception of financial institutions can influence customer behavior, including increasing claims or surrenders in certain products. sales of our investment-based and asset management products and services may decline, and lapses and surrenders of certain insurance products and withdrawals of assets from investment products may increase if a market downturn, increased market volatility or other market conditions result in customers becoming dissatisfied with their investments or products. changes in our discount rate, expected rate of return, life expectancy, health care cost and assumptions regarding compensation increases for our pension and other postretirement benefit plans may result in increased expenses and reduce our profitability. our reputation may be adversely impacted if any of the risks described in this section are realized. reputational risk could manifest from any of the risks as identified in the company's risk identification process. failure to effectively manage risks across a broad range of risk issues exposes the company to reputational harm. if the company were to suffer a significant loss in reputation, both policyholders and counterparties could seek to exit existing relationships. additionally, large changes in credit worthiness, especially credit ratings, could impact access to funding markets while creating additional collateral requirements for existing relationships. the mismanagement of any such risks may potentially damage our reputational asset. our business is anchored in the strength of our brand, our alignment to our values, and our proven commitment to keep our promises to our customers. any negative public perception, founded or otherwise, can be widely and rapidly shared over social media or other means, and could cause damage to our reputation. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 143 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk market risk is defined as the risk of loss from changes in interest rates, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates resulting from asset/liability mismatches where the change in the value of our liabilities is not offset by the change in value of our assets. for additional information regarding the potential impacts of interest rate and other market fluctuations, as well as general economic and market conditions on our businesses and profitability, see item 1a. risk factors above. for additional information regarding the overall management of our general account investments and our asset mix strategies, see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations general account investments management of investments above. for additional information regarding our liquidity and capital resources, which may be impacted by changing market risks, see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources above. market risk management management of market risk, which we consider to be a combination of both investment risk and market risk exposures, includes the identification and measurement of various forms of risk, the establishment of risk thresholds and the creation of processes intended to maintain risks within these thresholds while optimizing returns on the underlying assets or liabilities. our risk management process utilizes a variety of tools and techniques, including: measures of price sensitivity to market changes (e.g., interest rates, equity index prices, foreign exchange); asset/liability management; stress scenario testing; hedging programs; and risk management governance, including policies, limits, and a committee that oversees investment and market risk. for additional information regarding our overall risk management framework and governance structure, see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations risk management above. market risk mitigation risk mitigation takes three primary forms: asset/liability management: managing assets to liability-based measures. for example, investment policies identify target durations for assets based on liability characteristics and asset portfolios are managed to within ranges around them. this mitigates potential unanticipated economic losses from interest rate movements. hedging: using derivatives to offset risk exposures. for example, for our variable annuities, potential living benefit claims resulting from more severe market conditions are hedged using derivative instruments. 143 table of contents management of portfolio concentration risk. for example, ongoing monitoring and management at the enterprise level of key rate, currency and other concentration risks support diversification efforts to mitigate exposure to individual markets and sources of risk. market risk related to interest rates we perform liability-driven investing and engage in careful asset/liability management. asset/liability mismatches create the risk that changes in liability values will differ from the changes in the value of the related assets. additionally, changes in interest rates may impact other items including, but not limited to, the following: net investment spread between the amounts that we are required to pay and the rate of return we are able to earn on investments for certain products supported by general account investments; asset-based fees earned on assets under management or contractholder account values; estimated total gross profits and the amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs; net exposure to the guarantees provided under certain products; and capital levels of our regulated entities. we use duration and convexity analyses to measure price sensitivity to interest rate changes. duration measures the relative sensitivity of the fair value of a financial instrument to changes in interest rates. convexity measures the rate of change of duration with respect to changes in interest rates. we use asset/liability management and derivative strategies to manage our interest rate exposure by legal entity by matching the relative sensitivity of asset and liability values to interest rate changes, or controlling duration mismatch of assets and liability duration targets. in certain markets, capital market limitations that hinder our ability to acquire assets that approximate the duration of some of our liabilities are considered in setting duration targets. we consider risk-based capital and tax implications as well as current market conditions in our asset/liability management strategies. we assess the impact of interest rate movements on the value of our financial assets, financial liabilities and derivatives using hypothetical test scenarios that assume either upward or downward 100 basis point parallel shifts in the yield curve from prevailing interest rates, reflecting changes in either credit spreads or the risk-free rate. the following table sets forth the net estimated potential loss in fair value on these financial instruments from a hypothetical 100 basis point upward shift as of december 31, 2019 and 2018 . this table is presented on a gross basis and excludes offsetting impacts to insurance liabilities that are not considered financial liabilities under u.s gaap. this scenario results in the greatest net exposure to interest rate risk of the hypothetical scenarios tested at those dates. while the test scenario is for illustrative purposes only and does not reflect our expectations regarding future interest rates or the performance of fixed income markets, it is a near-term, reasonably possible hypothetical change that illustrates the potential impact of such events. these test scenarios do not measure the changes in value that could result from non-parallel shifts in the yield curve which we would expect to produce different changes in discount rates for different maturities. as a result, the actual loss in fair value from a 100 basis point change in interest rates could be different from that indicated by these calculations. the estimated changes in fair values do not include separate account assets. 144 table of contents as of december 31, 2019 as of december 31, 2018 notional fair value hypothetical change in fair value notional fair value hypothetical change in fair value (in millions) financial assets with interest rate risk: fixed maturities(1) $ 416,812 $ (43,532 ) $ 378,850 $ (37,691 ) commercial mortgage and other loans 65,893 (3,112 ) 59,978 (2,936 ) derivatives with interest rate risk: swaps $ 200,055 6,894 (4,747 ) $ 201,872 5,164 (4,455 ) futures 18,897 (37 ) (1,004 ) 15,139 13 (778 ) options 50,403 15 (91 ) 83,198 (337 ) 387 forwards 30,488 (23 ) (105 ) 26,220 230 (256 ) synthetic gics 80,009 1 0 79,215 2 0 embedded derivatives(2)(3) (14,147 ) 6,525 (8,926 ) 5,030 financial liabilities with interest rate risk(4): short-term and long-term debt (23,277 ) 4,156 (20,484 ) 3,095 policyholders' account balances investment contracts (102,156 ) 3,562 (98,428 ) 3,367 net estimated potential loss $ (38,348 ) $ (34,237 ) __________ (1) includes assets classified as fixed maturities, available-for-sale, at fair value, assets supporting experience-rated contractholder liabilities, at fair value and fixed maturities, trading, at fair value. approximately $391 billion and $354 billion as of december 31, 2019 and 2018 , respectively, of fixed maturities are classified as available-for-sale. (2) embedded derivatives relate primarily to certain features associated with variable annuity, indexed universal life, and fixed indexed annuity contracts. the fair value and hypothetical change in fair value of each is $(12,602) million and $6,315 million , $(1,119) million and $216 million , and $(197) million and $(6) million , respectively, as of december 31, 2019 . amounts as of december 31, 2018 relate primarily to certain features associated with variable annuity contracts. (3) excludes any offsetting impact of derivative instruments purchased to hedge changes in the embedded derivatives. amounts reported net of third-party reinsurance. (4) excludes approximately $344 billion and $324 billion as of december 31, 2019 and 2018 , respectively, of insurance reserve and deposit liabilities which are not considered financial liabilities. we believe that the interest rate sensitivities of these insurance liabilities would serve as an offset to the net interest rate risk of the financial assets and liabilities, including investment contracts. under u.s. gaap, the fair value of the embedded derivatives for certain features associated with variable annuity, indexed universal life, and fixed indexed annuity contracts, reflected in the table above, includes the impact of the market's perception of our npr. for more information on npr related to the sensitivity of the embedded derivatives to our npr credit spread, see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations accounting policies &amp; pronouncements application of critical accounting estimates sensitivities for insurance assets and liabilities above. for an additional discussion of our variable annuity optional living benefit guarantees accounted for as embedded derivatives and related derivatives used to hedge the changes in fair value of these embedded derivatives, see market risk related to certain variable annuity products below. for additional information about the key estimates and assumptions used in our determination of fair value, see note 6 to the consolidated financial statements. for information on the impacts of a sustained low interest rate environment, see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations executive summary impact of a low interest rate environment above. market risk related to equity prices we have exposure to equity risk through asset/liability mismatches, including our investments in equity securities held in our general account investment portfolio and unhedged exposure in our insurance liabilities, principally related to certain variable annuity living benefit feature embedded derivatives. our equity-based derivatives primarily hedge the equity risk embedded in these living benefit feature embedded derivatives, and are also part of our capital hedging program. changes in equity prices create risk that the resulting changes in asset values will differ from the changes in the value of the liabilities relating to the underlying or hedged products. additionally, changes in equity prices may impact other items including, but not limited to, the following: asset-based fees earned on assets under management or contractholder account value; estimated total gross profits and the amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs; and net exposure to the guarantees provided under certain products. 145 table of contents we manage equity risk against benchmarks in respective markets. we benchmark our return on equity holdings against a blend of market indices, mainly the s&amp;p 500 and russell 2000 for u.s. equities. we benchmark foreign equities against the tokyo price index, and the msci eafe, a market index of european, australian, and far eastern equities. we target price sensitivities that approximate those of the benchmark indices. we estimate our equity risk from a hypothetical 10% decline in equity benchmark market levels. the following table sets forth the net estimated potential loss in fair value from such a decline as of december 31, 2019 and 2018 . while these scenarios are for illustrative purposes only and do not reflect our expectations regarding future performance of equity markets or of our equity portfolio, they represent near-term reasonably possible hypothetical changes that illustrate the potential impact of such events. these scenarios consider only the direct impact on fair value of declines in equity benchmark market levels and not changes in asset-based fees recognized as revenue, changes in our estimates of total gross profits used as a basis for amortizing deferred policy acquisition and other costs, or changes in any other assumptions such as market volatility or mortality, utilization or persistency rates in our variable annuity contracts that could also impact the fair value of our living benefit features. in addition, these scenarios do not reflect the impact of basis risk, such as potential differences in the performance of the investment funds underlying the variable annuity products relative to the market indices we use as a basis for developing our hedging strategy. the impact of basis risk could result in larger differences between the change in fair value of the equity-based derivatives and the related living benefit features in comparison to these scenarios. in calculating these amounts, we exclude separate account equity securities. as of december 31, 2019 as of december 31, 2018 notional fair value hypothetical change in fair value notional fair value hypothetical change in fair value (in millions) equity securities(1) $ 9,175 $ (918 ) $ 7,560 $ (756 ) equity-based derivatives(2) $ 52,677 (719 ) 1,755 $ 77,143 867 1,528 embedded derivatives(2)(3)(4) (14,147 ) (1,726 ) (8,926 ) (1,497 ) net estimated potential loss $ (889 ) $ (725 ) __________ (1) includes equity securities classified as assets supporting experience-rated contractholder liabilities and equity securities, at fair value. (2) the notional and fair value of equity-based derivatives and the fair value of embedded derivatives are also reflected in amounts under market risk related to interest rates above, and are not cumulative. (3) embedded derivatives relate primarily to certain features associated with variable annuity, indexed universal life, and fixed indexed annuity contracts. the fair value and hypothetical change in fair value of each is $(12,602) million and $(1,833) million , $(1,119) million and $81 million , and $(197) million and $26 million , respectively, as of december 31, 2019 . amounts as of december 31, 2018 relate primarily to certain features associated with variable annuity contracts. (4) excludes any offsetting impact of derivative instruments purchased to hedge changes in the embedded derivatives. amounts reported net of third-party reinsurance. market risk related to foreign currency exchange rates as a u.s.-based company with significant business operations outside of the u.s., particularly in japan, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk related to these operations, as well as in our general account investment portfolio and other proprietary investment portfolios. for our international insurance operations, changes in foreign currency exchange rates create risk that we may experience volatility in the u.s. dollar-equivalent earnings and equity of these operations. we actively manage this risk through various hedging strategies, including the use of foreign currency hedges and through holding u.s. dollar-denominated securities in the investment portfolios of certain of these operations. additionally, our japanese insurance operations offer a variety of non-yen denominated products which are supported by investments in corresponding currencies. while these non-yen denominated assets are economically matched to the currency of the product liabilities, the accounting treatment may differ for changes in the value of these assets and liabilities due to moves in foreign currency exchange rates, resulting in volatility in reported u.s. gaap earnings. this volatility has been mitigated by disaggregating the u.s. and australian dollar-denominated businesses in gibraltar life into separate divisions, each with its own functional currency that aligns with the underlying products and investments. for certain of our international insurance operations outside of japan, we elect to not hedge the risk of changes in our equity investments due to foreign exchange rate movements. for further information, see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations impact of foreign currency exchange rates impact of products denominated in non-local currencies on u.s. gaap earnings above. for our domestic general account investment portfolios supporting our u.s. insurance operations and other proprietary investment portfolios, our foreign currency exchange rate risk arises primarily from investments that are denominated in foreign currencies. we manage this risk by hedging substantially all domestic foreign currency denominated fixed income investments 146 table of contents into u.s. dollars. we generally do not hedge all of the foreign currency risk of our investments in equity securities of unaffiliated foreign entities. we manage our foreign currency exchange rate risks within specified limits, and estimate our exposure, excluding equity in our japanese insurance operations, to a hypothetical 10% change in foreign currency exchange rates. the following table sets forth the net estimated potential loss in fair value from such a change as of december 31, 2019 and 2018 . while these scenarios are for illustrative purposes only and do not reflect our expectations regarding future changes in foreign exchange markets, they represent reasonably possible near-term hypothetical changes that illustrate the potential impact of such events. as of december 31, 2019 as of december 31, 2018 fair value hypothetical change in fair value fair value hypothetical change in fair value (in millions) unhedged portion of equity investment in international subsidiaries and foreign currency denominated investments in domestic general account portfolio $ 4,834 $ (483 ) $ 5,414 $ 541 for additional information, see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations general account investments portfolio composition and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations results of operations by segment international businesses above. derivatives we use derivative financial instruments primarily to reduce market risk from changes in interest rates, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates, including their use to alter interest rate or foreign currency exposures arising from mismatches between assets and liabilities. our derivatives primarily include swaps, futures, options and forward contracts that are exchange-traded or contracted in the otc market. our derivatives also include interest rate guarantees we provide on our synthetic gic products. synthetic gics simulate the performance of traditional insurance-related gics but are accounted for as derivatives under u.s. gaap due to the fact that the policyholders own the underlying assets, and we only provide a book value wrap on the customers' funds, which are held in a client-owned trust. since these wraps provide payment of guaranteed principal and interest to the customer, changes in interest rates create risk such that declines in the market value of customers' funds would increase our net exposure to these guarantees; however, our obligation is limited to payments that are in excess of the existing customers' fund value. additionally, we have the ability to periodically reset crediting rates, subject to a 0% minimum floor, as well as the ability to increase prices. further, our contract provisions provide that, although participants may withdraw funds at book value, contractholder withdrawals may only occur at market value immediately, or at book value over time. these factors, among others, result in these contracts experiencing minimal changes in fair value, despite a more significant notional value. our derivatives also include those that are embedded in certain financial instruments, and primarily relate to certain optional living benefit features associated with our variable annuity products, as discussed in more detail in market risk related to certain variable annuity products below. for additional information on our derivative activities, see note 5 to the consolidated financial statements. market risk related to certain variable annuity products the primary risk exposures of our variable annuity contracts relate to actual deviations from, or changes to, the assumptions used in the original pricing of these products, including capital markets assumptions, such as equity market returns, interest rates and market volatility and actuarial assumptions. for our capital markets assumptions, we manage our exposure to the risk created by capital markets fluctuations through a combination of product design elements, such as an automatic rebalancing element and inclusion of certain optional living benefits in our living benefits hedging program. in addition, we consider external reinsurance a form of risk mitigation as well as our capital hedge program. certain variable annuity optional living benefit features are accounted for as embedded derivatives and recorded at fair value. the market risk sensitivities associated with u.s. gaap values of both the embedded derivatives and the related derivatives used to hedge the changes in fair value of these embedded derivatives are provided under market risk related to interest rates and market risk related to equity prices above. for additional information regarding our risk management strategies, including our living benefit hedging program and other product design elements, see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations results of operations by segment u.s. individual solutions division individual annuities above. 147 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 105 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management, market risk and derivative instruments risk management includes the identification and measurement of various forms of risk, the establishment of risk thresholds and the creation of processes intended to maintain risks within these thresholds while optimizing returns on the underlying assets or liabilities. we consider risk management an integral part of our core business. market risk is the risk of change in the value of financial instruments as a result of absolute or relative changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates or equity or commodity prices. to varying degrees, the investment and trading activities supporting all of our products and services generate market risks. the market risks incurred and our strategies for managing these risks vary by product. with respect to non-variable life insurance products, fixed rate annuities, the fixed rate options in our variable life insurance and annuity products, consumer banking products, and other finance businesses, we incur market risk primarily in the form of interest rate risk. we manage this risk through asset/liability management strategies that seek to match the interest rate sensitivity of the assets to that of the underlying liabilities. our overall objective in these strategies is to limit the net change in value of assets and liabilities arising from interest rate movements. while it is more difficult to measure the interest sensitivity of our insurance liabilities than that of the related assets, to the extent that we can measure such sensitivities we believe that interest rate movements will generate asset value changes that substantially offset changes in the value of the liabilities relating to the underlying products. for variable annuities and variable life insurance products, excluding the fixed rate options in these products, mutual funds and most separate accounts, our main exposure to the market is the risk that asset management fees decrease as a result of declines in assets under management due to changes in prices of securities. we also run the risk that asset management fees calculated by reference to performance could be lower. for variable annuity and variable life insurance products with minimum guaranteed death and other benefits, we also face the risk that declines in the value of underlying investments as a result of changes in prices of securities may increase our net exposure to these death and other benefits under these contracts. see 105 table of contents management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations result of operations for financial services businesses by segment insurance division individual life and annuities for payments made under the guaranteed minimum death benefit provision of certain individual annuity contracts, which we do not believe add significantly to our overall market risk. we manage our exposure to equity price risk relating to our general account primarily by seeking to match the risk profile of equity investments against risk-adjusted equity market benchmarks. we measure benchmark risk levels in terms of price volatility in relation to the market in general. the sources of our exposure to market risk can be divided into two categories, other than trading activities conducted primarily in our insurance, annuity and guaranteed products operations, and trading activities conducted primarily in our equity and futures operations, as well as, historically, in our former domestic retail securities brokerage business. as part of our management of both other than trading and trading market risks, we use a variety of risk management tools and techniques. these include sensitivity and value-at-risk ( var ) measures, position and other limits based on type of risk, and various hedging methods. other than trading activities we hold the majority of our assets for other than trading activities in our segments that offer insurance, annuities and guaranteed products. we incorporate asset/liability management techniques and other risk management policies and limits into the process of investing our assets. we use derivatives for hedging purposes in the asset/liability management process. insurance, annuities and guaranteed products asset/liability management we seek to maintain interest rate and equity exposures within established ranges, which we periodically adjust based on market conditions and the design of related products sold to customers. our risk managers establish investment risk limits for exposures to any issuer, geographic region, type of security or industry sector and oversee efforts to manage risk within policy constraints set by management and approved by the board of directors. we use duration and convexity analyses to measure price sensitivity to interest rate changes. duration measures the relative sensitivity of the fair value of a financial instrument to changes in interest rates. convexity measures the rate of change of duration with respect to changes in interest rates. we seek to manage our interest rate exposure by legal entity by matching the relative sensitivity of asset and liability values to interest rate changes, or controlling duration mismatch of assets and liabilities. we have target duration mismatch constraints for each entity. as of december 31, 2003 and 2002, the difference between the pre-tax duration of assets and the target duration of liabilities in our duration managed portfolios was within our constraint limits. we consider risk-based capital implications in our asset/liability management strategies. we also perform portfolio stress testing as part of our regulatory cash flow testing. in this testing, we evaluate the impact of altering our interest-sensitive assumptions under various moderately adverse interest rate environments. these interest-sensitive assumptions relate to the timing and amount of redemptions and prepayments of fixed-income securities and lapses and surrenders of insurance products and the potential impact of any guaranteed minimum interest rates. we evaluate any shortfalls that this cash flow testing reveals to determine if we need to increase statutory reserves or adjust portfolio management strategies. market risk related to interest rates our other than trading assets that subject us to interest rate risk include primarily fixed maturity securities, commercial loans and policy loans. in the aggregate, the carrying value of these assets represented 74% of our consolidated assets, other than assets that we held in separate accounts, as of december 31, 2003 and 70% as of december 31, 2002. with respect to other than trading liabilities, we are exposed to interest rate risk through policyholder account balances relating to interest-sensitive life insurance, annuity and investment-type contracts and through outstanding short-term and long-term debt. we assess interest rate sensitivity for other than trading financial assets, financial liabilities and derivatives using hypothetical test scenarios that assume either upward or downward 100 basis point parallel 106 table of contents shifts in the yield curve from prevailing interest rates. the following tables set forth the potential loss in fair value from a hypothetical 100 basis point upward shift as of december 31, 2003 and 2002, because this scenario results in the greatest net exposure to interest rate risk of the hypothetical scenarios tested at those dates. while the test scenario is for illustrative purposes only and does not reflect our expectations regarding future interest rates or the performance of fixed-income markets, it is a near-term, reasonably possible hypothetical change that illustrates the potential impact of such events. these test scenarios do not measure the changes in value that could result from non-parallel shifts in the yield curve, which we would expect to produce different changes in discount rates for different maturities. as a result, the actual loss in fair value from a 100 basis point change in interest rates could be different from that indicated by these calculations. as of december 31, 2003 notional value of derivatives estimated fair value hypothetical fair value after + 100 basis point parallel yield curve shift hypothetical change in fair value (in millions) financial assets with interest rate risk: fixed maturities: available for sale $ 128,943 $ 120,886 $ (8,057 ) held to maturity 3,084 2,980 (104 ) commercial loans 21,037 20,140 (897 ) mortgage securitization inventory 1,058 1,049 (9 ) policy loans 9,706 9,123 (583 ) derivatives: swaps $ 11,231 (379 ) (349 ) 30 futures 2,148 1 (68 ) (69 ) options 278 11 3 (8 ) forwards 12,791 (13 ) (116 ) (103 ) financial liabilities with interest rate risk: short-term and long-term debt(1) (10,844 ) (10,421 ) 423 investment contracts (41,450 ) (40,865 ) 585 net estimated potential loss $ (8,792 ) as of december 31, 2002 notional value of derivatives estimated fair value hypothetical fair value after + 100 basis point parallel yield curve shift hypothetical change in fair value (in millions) financial assets with interest rate risk: fixed maturities: available for sale $ 125,463 $ 118,100 $ (7,363 ) held to maturity 2,673 2,598 (75 ) commercial loans 21,335 20,214 (1,121 ) mortgage securitization inventory 708 703 (5 ) policy loans 10,714 10,044 (670 ) derivatives: swaps $ 8,306 (63 ) (8 ) 55 futures 1,012 (31 ) 14 45 options 233 8 3 (5 ) forwards 7,584 (195 ) (194 ) 1 financial liabilities with interest rate risk: short-term and long-term debt (8,804 ) (8,447 ) 357 investment contracts (38,765 ) (38,203 ) 562 guaranteed beneficial interest in trust holding solely debentures of parent(1) (755 ) (730 ) 25 net estimated potential loss $ (8,194 ) (1) as of december 31, 2003, short-term and long-term debt includes long-term debt related to our equity security units. as of december 31, 2002, our equity security units were included in guaranteed beneficial interest in trust holding solely debentures of parent. 107 table of contents the tables above do not include approximately $104 billion of insurance reserve and deposit liabilities as of december 31, 2003 and $99 billion as of december 31, 2002. we believe that the interest rate sensitivities of these insurance liabilities offset, in large measure, the interest rate risk of the financial assets set forth in these tables. the $598 million increase in the total estimated potential loss as of december 31, 2003 from december 31, 2002 resulted primarily from the increase in our portfolio of fixed maturities available for sale during 2003. the estimated changes in fair values of our financial assets shown above relate primarily to assets invested to support our insurance liabilities, but do not include assets associated with products for which investment risk is borne primarily by the contract holders rather than by us. market risk related to equity prices we actively manage equity price risk against benchmarks in respective markets. we benchmark our return on equity holdings against a blend of market indices, mainly the s&amp;p 500 and russell 2000, and we target price sensitivities that approximate those of the benchmark indices. we estimate our equity price risk from a hypothetical 10% decline in equity benchmark market levels and measure this risk in terms of the decline in fair market value of equity securities we hold. using this methodology, our estimated equity price risk as of december 31, 2003 was $340 million, representing a hypothetical decline in fair market value of equity securities we held at that date from $3.401 billion to $3.061 billion. our estimated equity price risk using this methodology as of december 31, 2002 was $281 million, representing a hypothetical decline in fair market value of equity securities we held at that date from $2.807 billion to $2.526 billion. in calculating these amounts, we exclude equity securities related to products for which the investment risk is borne primarily by the contractholder rather than by us. while these scenarios are for illustrative purposes only and do not reflect our expectations regarding future performance of equity markets or of our equity portfolio, they represent near term reasonably possible hypothetical changes that illustrate the potential impact of such events. market risk related to foreign currency exchange rates we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk in our general account and through our operations in foreign countries. in our international life insurance business, we generally invest in assets denominated in the same currencies as our insurance liabilities, which mitigates our foreign currency exchange rate risk for these operations. our exposure to foreign currency risk within the general account investment portfolios supporting our u.s. insurance operations arises primarily from purchased investments that are denominated or payable in foreign currencies. we generally hedge substantially all foreign currency-denominated fixed-income investments supporting our u.s. operations into u.s. dollars, using foreign exchange forward contracts and currency swaps, in order to mitigate the risk that the fair value of these investments fluctuates as a result of changes in foreign exchange rates. we generally do not hedge all of the foreign currency risk of our equity investments in unaffiliated foreign entities. our operations in foreign countries create two additional sources of foreign currency risk. first, we reflect the operating results of our foreign branches and subsidiaries in our financial statements based on the average exchange rates prevailing during the period. we hedge some of these foreign currency flows based on our overall risk management strategy and loss limits. we generally hedge our anticipated exposure to adjusted operating income fluctuations resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates relating to our international operations in japan and korea, of which our japanese insurance operations are the most significant, using foreign exchange forward contracts and currency swaps. second, we translate our equity investment in foreign branches and subsidiaries into u.s. dollars using the foreign currency exchange rate at the financial statement period-end date. we have chosen to partially hedge this exposure. we actively manage foreign currency exchange rate risk within specified limits at the consolidated level using var analysis. this statistical technique estimates, at a specified confidence level, the potential pre-tax loss in portfolio market value that could occur over an assumed time horizon due to adverse market movements. we calculate this using a variance/covariance approach. 108 table of contents we calculate var estimates of exposure to loss from volatility in foreign currency exchange rates for one-month time periods. our estimated var as of december 31, 2003 for foreign currency assets not hedged to u.s. dollars, measured at the 95% confidence level and using a one-month time horizon, was $24 million, representing a hypothetical decline in fair market value of these foreign currency assets from $811 million to $787 million. our estimated var as of december 31, 2002 for foreign currency assets not hedged to u.s. dollars, measured at the 95% confidence level and using a one-month time horizon, was $9 million, representing a hypothetical decline in fair market value of these foreign currency assets from $494 million to $485 million. these calculations use historical price volatilities and correlation data at a 95% confidence level. we discuss limitations of var models below. our estimated var for foreign exchange forward contracts and currency swaps used to hedge our anticipated exposure to adjusted operating income fluctuations resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates relating to our international operations, measured at the 95% confidence level and using a one-month time horizon, was $59 million as of december 31, 2003 and $110 million as of december 31, 2002. our average monthly value-at-risk for foreign currency assets not hedged to u.s. dollars from foreign currency exchange rate movements, measured at the 95% confidence level over a one month time horizon, was $18 million during 2003 and $15 million during 2002. derivatives derivatives are financial instruments whose values are derived from interest rates, foreign exchange rates, financial indices, or the prices of securities or commodities. derivative financial instruments may be exchange-traded or contracted in the over-the-counter market and include swaps, futures, options and forward contracts. see note 18 to the consolidated financial statements for a description of our derivative activities as of december 31, 2003 and 2002. under insurance statutes, our insurance companies may use derivative financial instruments to hedge actual or anticipated changes in their assets or liabilities, to replicate cash market instruments or for certain income-generating activities. these statutes generally prohibit the use of derivatives for speculative purposes. we use derivative financial instruments primarily to seek to reduce market risk from changes in interest rates or foreign currency exchange rates, and to alter interest rate or foreign currency exposures arising from mismatches between assets and liabilities. in addition, derivatives are used in our futures operations for trading purposes. trading activities we engage in trading activities primarily in connection with our equity and futures operations, as well as, historically, in our former domestic retail securities brokerage business. we maintain trading inventories in various equity, foreign exchange instruments and commodities, primarily to facilitate transactions for our clients. market risk affects the values of our trading inventories through fluctuations in absolute or relative interest rates, credit spreads, foreign currency exchange rates, securities and commodity prices. we seek to use short security positions and forwards, futures, options and other derivatives to limit exposure to interest rate and other market risks. we also trade derivative financial instruments that allow our clients to manage exposure to interest rate, currency and other market risks. most of our derivative transactions involve exchange-listed contracts and are short term in duration. we act both as a broker, by selling exchange-listed contracts, and as a dealer, by entering into futures and security transactions as a principal. as a broker, we assume counterparty and credit risks that we seek to mitigate by using margin or other credit enhancements and by establishing trading limits and credit lines. as a dealer, we are subject to market risk as well as counterparty and credit risk. we manage the market risk associated with trading activities through hedging activities and formal policies, risk and position limits, counterparty and credit limits, daily position monitoring, and other forms of risk management. value-at-risk var is one of the tools we use to monitor and manage our exposure to the market risk of our trading activities. we calculate a var that encompasses our trading activities using a 95% confidence level. the var method incorporates the risk factors to which the market value of our trading activities is exposed, which consist of interest rates, including credit spreads, foreign exchange rates, equity prices and commodity prices, estimates of volatilities from historical data, the sensitivity of our trading activities to changes in those market factors and 109 table of contents the correlations of those factors. we regularly test our var model by comparing actual adverse results to those estimated by the var model with a 95% confidence level over a one-day time horizon. the var for our trading activities expressed in terms of adverse changes to fair value at the 95% confidence level over a one-day time horizon was $2 million as of december 31, 2003 and $2 million as of december 31, 2002. the average daily var for our trading activities, expressed in terms of adverse changes to fair value with a 95% confidence level over a one-day time horizon, was $2 million during 2003 and $4 million during 2002. the following table sets forth a breakdown of this var by risk component as follows: as of december 31, 2003 average for 2003 as of december 31, 2002 average for 2002 (in millions) interest rate risk $ 1 $ 2 $ 2 $ 4 equity risk commodities risk 1 total(1) $ 2 $ 2 $ 2 $ 4 (1) as of december 31, 2003 and 2002, and during the years then ended, var from foreign currency exchange rate risk in our trading activities was immaterial. limitations of var models although var models represent a recognized tool for risk management, they have inherent limitations, including reliance on historical data that may not be indicative of future market conditions or trading patterns. accordingly, you should not view var models as a predictor of future results. we may incur losses that could be materially in excess of the amounts indicated by the models on a particular trading day or over a period of time, and there have been instances when results have fallen outside the values generated by our var models. a var model does not estimate the greatest possible loss. we use these models together with other risk management tools, including stress testing. the results of these models and analysis thereof are subject to the judgment of our risk management personnel. 110 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 121 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management, market risk and derivative instruments risk management includes the identification and measurement of various forms of risk, the establishment of risk thresholds and the creation of processes intended to maintain risks within these thresholds while optimizing returns on the underlying assets or liabilities. we consider risk management an integral part of our core business. market risk is the risk of change in the value of financial instruments as a result of absolute or relative changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates or equity or commodity prices. to varying degrees, the investment and trading activities supporting all of our products and services generate market risks. the market risks incurred and our strategies for managing these risks vary by product. with respect to non-variable life insurance products, fixed rate annuities, the fixed rate options in our variable life insurance and annuity products, consumer banking products, and other finance businesses, we incur market risk primarily in the form of interest rate risk. we manage this risk through asset/liability management strategies that seek to match the interest rate sensitivity of the assets to that of the underlying liabilities. our overall objective in these strategies is to limit the net change in value of assets and liabilities arising from interest rate movements. while it is more difficult to measure the interest sensitivity of our insurance liabilities than that of the related assets, to the extent that we can measure such sensitivities we believe that interest rate movements will generate asset value changes that substantially offset changes in the value of the liabilities relating to the underlying products. for variable annuities and variable life insurance products, excluding the fixed rate options in these products, mutual funds and most separate accounts, our main exposure to the market is the risk that asset management fees decrease as a result of declines in assets under management due to changes in prices of securities. we also run the risk that asset management fees calculated by reference to performance could be lower. for variable annuity and variable life insurance products with minimum guaranteed death and other benefits, we also face the risk that declines in the value of underlying investments as a result of changes in prices of securities may increase our net exposure to these death and other benefits under these contracts. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations results of operations for financial services businesses by segment insurance division individual life and annuities for payments made under the guaranteed minimum death benefit provision of certain individual annuity contracts. we manage our exposure to equity price risk relating to our general account investments primarily by seeking to match the risk profile of equity investments against risk-adjusted equity market benchmarks. we measure benchmark risk levels in terms of price volatility in relation to the market in general. the sources of our exposure to market risk can be divided into two categories, other than trading activities conducted primarily in our insurance, annuity and guaranteed products operations, and trading activities conducted primarily in our equity and derivatives trading operations, as well as, historically, in our former domestic retail securities brokerage business. as part of our management of both other than trading and trading market risks, we use a variety of risk management tools and techniques. these include sensitivity and value-at-risk, or var, measures, position and other limits based on type of risk, and various hedging methods. other than trading activities we hold the majority of our assets for other than trading activities in our segments that offer insurance, annuities and guaranteed products. we incorporate asset/liability management techniques and other risk management policies and limits into the process of investing our assets. we use derivatives for hedging purposes in the asset/liability management process. insurance, annuities and guaranteed products asset/liability management we seek to maintain interest rate and equity exposures within established ranges, which we periodically adjust based on market conditions and the design of related products sold to customers. our risk managers establish investment risk limits for exposures to any issuer, geographic region, type of security or industry sector and oversee efforts to manage risk within policy constraints set by management and approved by the investment committee of the board of directors. 121 table of contents we use duration and convexity analyses to measure price sensitivity to interest rate changes. duration measures the relative sensitivity of the fair value of a financial instrument to changes in interest rates. convexity measures the rate of change of duration with respect to changes in interest rates. we seek to manage our interest rate exposure by legal entity by matching the relative sensitivity of asset and liability values to interest rate changes, or controlling duration mismatch of assets and liabilities. we have target duration mismatch constraints for each entity. as of december 31, 2004 and 2003, the difference between the pre-tax duration of assets and the target duration of liabilities in our duration managed portfolios was within our constraint limits. we consider risk-based capital implications in our asset/liability management strategies. we also perform portfolio stress testing as part of our regulatory cash flow testing. in this testing, we evaluate the impact of altering our interest-sensitive assumptions under various moderately adverse interest rate environments. these interest-sensitive assumptions relate to the timing and amount of redemptions and prepayments of fixed-income securities and lapses and surrenders of insurance products and the potential impact of any guaranteed minimum interest rates. we evaluate any shortfalls that this cash flow testing reveals to determine if we need to increase statutory reserves or adjust portfolio management strategies. market risk related to interest rates our other than trading assets that subject us to interest rate risk include primarily fixed maturity securities, commercial loans and policy loans. in the aggregate, the carrying value of these assets represented 69% of our consolidated assets, other than assets that we held in separate accounts, as of december 31, 2004 and 74% as of december 31, 2003. with respect to other than trading liabilities, we are exposed to interest rate risk through policyholder account balances relating to interest-sensitive life insurance, annuity and investment-type contracts and through outstanding short-term and long-term debt. we assess interest rate sensitivity for other than trading financial assets, financial liabilities and derivatives using hypothetical test scenarios that assume either upward or downward 100 basis point parallel shifts in the yield curve from prevailing interest rates. the following tables set forth the potential loss in fair value from a hypothetical 100 basis point upward shift as of december 31, 2004 and 2003, because this scenario results in the greatest net exposure to interest rate risk of the hypothetical scenarios tested at those dates. while the test scenario is for illustrative purposes only and does not reflect our expectations regarding future interest rates or the performance of fixed-income markets, it is a near-term, reasonably possible hypothetical change that illustrates the potential impact of such events. these test scenarios do not measure the changes in value that could result from non-parallel shifts in the yield curve, which we would expect to produce different changes in discount rates for different maturities. as a result, the actual loss in fair value from a 100 basis point change in interest rates could be different from that indicated by these calculations. as of december 31, 2004 notional value of derivatives fair value hypothetical fair value after + 100 basis point parallel yield curve shift hypothetical change in fair value (in millions) financial assets with interest rate risk: fixed maturities $ 165,298 $ 155,335 $ (9,963 ) commercial loans 25,549 24,536 (1,013 ) mortgage broker-loan inventory 993 987 (6 ) policy loans 9,794 9,178 (616 ) derivatives: swaps $ 16,443 (698 ) (708 ) (10 ) futures 2,202 4 (49 ) (53 ) options 760 36 21 (15 ) forwards 12,718 (152 ) (215 ) (63 ) financial liabilities with interest rate risk: short-term and long-term debt (12,271 ) (11,694 ) 577 investment contracts (64,064 ) (62,738 ) 1,326 net estimated potential loss $ (9,836 ) 122 table of contents as of december 31, 2003 notional value of derivatives fair value hypothetical fair value after + 100 basis point parallel yield curve shift hypothetical change in fair value (in millions) financial assets with interest rate risk: fixed maturities $ 132,027 $ 123,866 $ (8,161 ) commercial loans 21,037 20,140 (897 ) mortgage broker-loan inventory 1,058 1,049 (9 ) policy loans 9,706 9,123 (583 ) derivatives: swaps $ 11,231 (379 ) (349 ) 30 futures 2,148 1 (68 ) (69 ) options 278 11 3 (8 ) forwards 12,791 (13 ) (116 ) (103 ) financial liabilities with interest rate risk: short-term and long-term debt (10,844 ) (10,421 ) 423 investment contracts (41,450 ) (40,865 ) 585 net estimated potential loss $ (8,792 ) the tables above do not include approximately $114.0 billion of insurance reserve and deposit liabilities as of december 31, 2004 and $103.9 billion as of december 31, 2003. we believe that the interest rate sensitivities of these insurance liabilities offset, in large measure, the interest rate risk of the financial assets set forth in these tables. the $1.044 billion increase in the total estimated potential loss as of december 31, 2004 from december 31, 2003 resulted primarily from the increase in our portfolio of fixed maturities including those acquired as part of the purchase of the retirement business of cigna corporation during 2004. the estimated changes in fair values of our financial assets shown above relate primarily to assets invested to support our insurance liabilities, but do not include assets associated with products for which investment risk is borne primarily by the contractholders rather than by us. market risk related to equity prices we actively manage investment equity price risk against benchmarks in respective markets. we benchmark our return on equity holdings against a blend of market indices, mainly the s&amp;p 500 and russell 2000, and we target price sensitivities that approximate those of the benchmark indices. we estimate our equity price risk from a hypothetical 10% decline in equity benchmark market levels and measure this risk in terms of the decline in fair market value of equity securities we hold. using this methodology, our estimated equity price risk as of december 31, 2004 was $473 million, representing a hypothetical decline in fair market value of equity securities we held at that date from $4.732 billion to $4.259 billion. our estimated equity price risk using this methodology as of december 31, 2003 was $340 million, representing a hypothetical decline in fair market value of equity securities we held at that date from $3.401 billion to $3.061 billion. in calculating these amounts, we exclude equity securities related to products for which the investment risk is borne primarily by the contractholder rather than by us. while these scenarios are for illustrative purposes only and do not reflect our expectations regarding future performance of equity markets or of our equity portfolio, they represent near term reasonably possible hypothetical changes that illustrate the potential impact of such events. market risk related to foreign currency exchange rates we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk in our general account investment portfolios and through our operations in foreign countries. in our international life insurance business, we generally invest in assets denominated in the same currencies as our insurance liabilities, which mitigates our foreign currency exchange rate risk for these operations. our exposure to foreign currency risk within the general account investment portfolios supporting our u.s. insurance operations arises primarily from purchased investments that are denominated or payable in foreign 123 table of contents currencies. we generally hedge substantially all foreign currency-denominated fixed-income investments supporting our u.s. operations into u.s. dollars in order to mitigate the risk that the fair value of these investments fluctuates as a result of changes in foreign exchange rates. we generally do not hedge all of the foreign currency risk of our equity investments in unaffiliated foreign entities. our operations in foreign countries create two additional sources of foreign currency risk. first, we reflect the operating results of our foreign branches and subsidiaries in our financial statements based on the average exchange rates prevailing during the period. we hedge some of these foreign currency operating results as part of our overall risk management strategy. we generally hedge our anticipated exposure to adjusted operating income fluctuations resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates relating to our international operations primarily in japan and korea. second, we translate our equity investment in foreign branches and subsidiaries into u.s. dollars using the foreign currency exchange rate at the financial statement period-end date. we have chosen to partially hedge this exposure. we actively manage investment foreign currency exchange rate risk within specified limits at the consolidated level using var based analysis. this statistical technique estimates, at a specified confidence level, the potential pre-tax loss in portfolio market value that could occur over an assumed time horizon due to adverse market movements. we calculate this using a variance/covariance approach. we calculate var estimates of exposure to loss from volatility in foreign currency exchange rates for one-month time periods. our estimated var as of december 31, 2004 for foreign currency assets not hedged to u.s. dollars within our general account investment portfolios supporting our u.s. insurance operations, including the portion of equity investment in foreign subsidiaries not hedged, measured at the 95% confidence level and using a one-month time horizon, was $35 million, representing a hypothetical decline in fair market value of these foreign currency assets from $1.241 billion to $1.206 billion. our estimated var as of december 31, 2003 for foreign currency assets not hedged to u.s. dollars within our general account investment portfolios supporting our u.s. insurance operations, including the portion of equity investment in foreign subsidiaries not hedged, measured at the 95% confidence level and using a one-month time horizon, was $24 million, representing a hypothetical decline in fair market value of these foreign currency assets from $811 million to $787 million. our average monthly var for foreign currency assets not hedged to u.s. dollars within our general account investment portfolios supporting our u.s. insurance operations, including the portion of equity investment in foreign subsidiaries not hedged, from foreign currency exchange rate movements, measured at the 95% confidence level over a one month time horizon, was $35 million during 2004 and $18 million during 2003. these calculations use historical price volatilities and correlation data at a 95% confidence level. we discuss limitations of var models below. our estimated var for instruments used to hedge our anticipated exposure to adjusted operating income fluctuations resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates relating to our international operations, measured at the 95% confidence level and using a one-month time horizon, was $110 million as of december 31, 2004 and $59 million as of december 31, 2003. derivatives derivatives are financial instruments whose values are derived from interest rates, foreign exchange rates, financial indices, or the prices of securities or commodities. derivative financial instruments may be exchange-traded or contracted in the over-the-counter market and include swaps, futures, options and forward contracts. see note 19 to the consolidated financial statements for a description of our derivative activities as of december 31, 2004 and 2003. under insurance statutes, our insurance companies may use derivative financial instruments to hedge actual or anticipated changes in their assets or liabilities, to replicate cash market instruments or for certain income-generating activities. these statutes generally prohibit the use of derivatives for speculative purposes. we use derivative financial instruments primarily to seek to reduce market risk from changes in interest rates or foreign currency exchange rates, and to alter interest rate or foreign currency exposures arising from mismatches between assets and liabilities. trading activities we engage in trading activities primarily in connection with our equity and derivatives trading operations, as well as, historically, in our former domestic retail securities brokerage business. we maintain trading positions 124 table of contents in various equity, foreign exchange instruments and commodities, primarily to facilitate transactions for our clients. market risk affects the values of our trading positions through fluctuations in absolute or relative interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, securities and commodity prices. we seek to use short security positions and forwards, futures, options and other derivatives to limit exposure to interest rate and other market risks. we also trade derivative financial instruments that allow our clients to manage exposure to interest rate, currency and other market risks. our derivative transactions involve both exchange-listed and over-the-counter contracts and are generally short-term in duration. we act both as a broker, buying and selling exchange-listed contracts for our customers, and as a dealer, by entering into futures and security transactions as a principal. as a broker, we assume counterparty and credit risks that we seek to mitigate by using margin or other credit enhancements and by establishing trading limits and credit lines. as a dealer, we are subject to market risk as well as counterparty and credit risk. we manage the market risk associated with trading activities through hedging activities and formal policies, risk and position limits, counterparty and credit limits, daily position monitoring, and other forms of risk management. value-at-risk var is one of the tools we use to monitor and manage our exposure to the market risk of our trading activities. we calculate a var that encompasses our trading activities using a 95% confidence level. the var method incorporates the risk factors to which the market value of our trading activities is exposed, which consist of interest rates, including credit spreads, foreign exchange rates, equity prices and commodity prices, estimates of volatilities from historical data, the sensitivity of our trading activities to changes in those market factors and the correlations of those factors. we test our var model by comparing actual adverse results to those estimated by the var model with a 95% confidence level over a one-day time horizon. the var for our trading activities expressed in terms of adverse changes to fair value at the 95% confidence level over a one-day time horizon was $1 million as of december 31, 2004 and $2 million as of december 31, 2003. the average daily var for our trading activities, expressed in terms of adverse changes to fair value with a 95% confidence level over a one-day time horizon, was $1 million during 2004 and $2 million during 2003. the following table sets forth a breakdown of this var by risk component as follows: as of december 31, 2004 average for 2004 as of december 31, 2003 average for 2003 (in millions) interest rate risk $ $ $ 1 $ 2 equity risk commodities risk 1 1 1 total (1) $ 1 $ 1 $ 2 $ 2 (1) as of december 31, 2004 and 2003, and during the years then ended, var from foreign currency exchange rate risk in our trading activities was immaterial. limitations of var models although var models are a recognized tool for risk management, they have inherent limitations, including reliance on historical data that may not be indicative of future market conditions or trading patterns. accordingly, you should not view var models as a predictor of future results. we may incur losses that could be materially in excess of the amounts indicated by the models on a particular trading day or over a period of time, and there have been instances when results have fallen outside the values generated by our var models. a var model does not estimate the greatest possible loss. the results of these models and analysis thereof are subject to the judgment of our risk management personnel. 125 table of contentsrisk factors 35 risk factors you should carefully consider the following risks. these risks could materially affect our business, results of operations or financial condition, cause the trading price of our common stock to decline materially or cause our actual results to differ materially from those expected or those expressed in any forward looking statements made by or on behalf of the company. these risks are not exclusive, and additional risks to which we are subject include, but are not limited to, the factors mentioned under forward-looking statements above and the risks of our businesses described elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k. market fluctuations and general economic, market and political conditions may adversely affect our business and profitability. our insurance products and certain of our investment products, and our investment returns, are sensitive to stock, real estate and other market fluctuations and general economic, market and political conditions and these fluctuations and changes could adversely affect our investment returns and results of operations, including in the following respects: the profitability of many of our insurance products depends in part on the value of the separate accounts supporting these products, which may fluctuate substantially depending on the foregoing conditions. market conditions resulting in reductions in the value of assets we manage would have an adverse effect on the revenues and profitability of our asset management services, which depend on fees related primarily to the value of assets under management, and would decrease the value of our proprietary investments. a change in market conditions, including prolonged periods of high inflation, could cause a change in consumer sentiment adversely affecting sales and persistency of our long-term savings and protection products. sales of our investment-based and asset management products and services may decline and lapses of variable life and annuity products and withdrawals of assets from other investment products may increase if a market downturn, increased market volatility or other market conditions result in customers becoming dissatisfied with their investments or products. a market decline could result in guaranteed minimum benefits contained in many of our variable annuity products being higher than current account values or our pricing assumptions would support, requiring us to materially increase reserves for such products. market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection we purchase. accordingly, we may be forced to incur additional expenses for reinsurance or may not be able to obtain sufficient reinsurance on acceptable terms which could adversely affect the profitability of future business or our willingness to write future business. interest rate fluctuations could adversely affect our businesses and profitability. our insurance products and certain of our investment products, and our investment returns, are sensitive to interest rate fluctuations, and changes in interest rates could adversely affect our investment returns and results of operations, including in the following respects: some of our products expose us to the risk that changes in interest rates will reduce the spread between the amounts that we are required to pay under the contracts and the rate of return we are able to earn on our general account investments supporting the contracts. when interest rates decline, we have to reinvest the cash income from our investments in lower yielding instruments. since many of our policies and contracts have guaranteed minimum interest or crediting rates or limit the resetting of interest rates, the spreads could decrease and potentially become negative. when interest rates rise, we may not be able to replace the assets in our general account with the higher yielding assets needed to fund the higher crediting rates necessary to keep these products and contracts competitive. changes in interest rates may reduce our spreads or result in potential losses in our investment activities in which we borrow funds and purchase investments to earn additional spread income on the borrowed funds. a decline in market interest rates could also reduce our returns from investment of equity. 35 table of contents when interest rates rise, policy loans and surrenders and withdrawals of life insurance policies and annuity contracts may increase as policyholders seek to buy products with perceived higher returns, requiring us to sell investment assets potentially resulting in realized investment losses, or requiring us to accelerate the amortization of dac or voba (both defined below). a decline in interest rates accompanied by unexpected prepayments of certain investments could result in reduced investments and a decline in our profitability. an increase in interest rates accompanied by unexpected extensions of certain lower yielding investments could result in a decline in our profitability. changes in the relationship between long-term and short-term interest rates could adversely affect the profitability of some of our products. if our reserves for future policyholder benefits and claims are inadequate, we may be required to increase our reserves, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we establish and carry reserves to pay future policyholder benefits and claims. our reserves do not represent an exact calculation of liability, but rather are actuarial or statistical estimates based on many assumptions and projections which are inherently uncertain and involve the exercise of significant judgment, including as to the levels of and/or timing of receipt or payment of premiums, benefits, claims, expenses, interest credits, investment results, retirement, mortality, morbidity and persistency. we cannot determine with precision the ultimate amounts that we will pay for, or the timing of payment of, actual benefits, claims and expenses or whether the assets supporting our policy liabilities, together with future premiums, will be sufficient for payment of benefits and claims. if we conclude that our reserves, together with future premiums, are insufficient to cover future policy benefits and claims, we would be required to increase our reserves and incur income statement charges for the period in which we make the determination, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. our profitability may decline if mortality rates, morbidity rates or persistency rates differ significantly from our pricing expectations. we set prices for many of our insurance and annuity products based upon expected claims and payment patterns, using assumptions for mortality rates, or likelihood of death, and morbidity rates, or likelihood of sickness, of our policyholders. pricing of our insurance and deferred annuity products are also based in part upon expected persistency of these products, which is the probability that a policy or contract will remain in force from one period to the next. the development of a secondary market for life insurance, including life settlements or viaticals and investor owned life insurance, could adversely affect the profitability of existing business and our pricing assumptions for new business. significant deviations in actual experience from our pricing assumptions could have an adverse effect on the profitability of our products. although some of our products permit us to increase premiums or adjust other charges and credits during the life of the policy or contract, the adjustments permitted under the terms of the policies or contracts may not be sufficient to maintain profitability. many of our products do not permit us to increase premiums or adjust other charges and credits or limit those adjustments during the life of the policy or contract. we may be required to accelerate the amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs, or dac, or valuation of business acquired, or voba, or recognize impairment in the value of our goodwill, which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. deferred policy acquisition costs, or dac, represent the costs that vary with and are related primarily to the acquisition of new and renewal insurance and annuity contracts, and we amortize these costs over the expected lives of the contracts. valuation of business acquired, or voba, represents the present value of future profits embedded in acquired insurance, annuity and investment-type contracts and is amortized over the expected effective lives of the acquired contracts. goodwill represents the excess of the amounts we paid to acquire subsidiaries and other businesses over the fair value of their net assets at the date of acquisition. management, on an ongoing basis, tests the dac and voba recorded on our balance sheet to determine if these amounts are recoverable under current assumptions. in addition, we regularly review the estimates and assumptions underlying dac and voba for those products for which we amortize dac and voba in proportion to gross profits or gross margins. management tests goodwill for impairment at least annually based upon estimates of the 36 table of contents fair value of the reporting unit to which the goodwill relates. given changes in facts and circumstances, these tests and reviews could lead to reductions in goodwill, dac and/or voba that could have an adverse effect on the results of our operations and our financial condition. a downgrade or potential downgrade in our claims-paying or credit ratings could limit our ability to market products, increase the number or value of policies being surrendered, increase our borrowing costs and/or hurt our relationships with creditors or trading counterparties. claims-paying ratings, which are sometimes referred to as financial strength ratings, represent the opinions of rating agencies regarding the financial ability of an insurance company to meet its obligations under an insurance policy, and are important factors affecting public confidence in an insurer and its competitive position in marketing products, including prudential insurance and our other insurance company subsidiaries. credit ratings represent the opinions of rating agencies regarding an entity ability to repay its indebtedness, and prudential financial credit ratings are important to our ability to raise capital through the issuance of debt and to the cost of such financing. a downgrade in our claims-paying or credit ratings could limit our ability to market products, reduce our competitiveness, increase the number or value of policies being surrendered, increase our borrowing costs and/or hurt our relationships with creditors or trading counterparties. losses due to defaults by others, including issuers of investment securities or reinsurance and derivative instrument counterparties, could adversely affect the value of our investments or reduce our profitability. issuers and borrowers whose securities or loans we hold, customers, trading counterparties, counterparties under swaps and other derivative contracts, reinsurers, clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses and other financial intermediaries and guarantors may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, insolvency, lack of liquidity, adverse economic conditions, operational failure, fraud or other reasons. such defaults could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. intense competition could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our market share or profitability. in each of our businesses we face intense competition from domestic and foreign insurance companies, asset managers and diversified financial institutions, both for the ultimate customers for our products and, in many businesses, for distribution through non-affiliated distribution channels. we compete based on a number of factors including brand recognition, reputation, quality of service, quality of investment advice, investment performance of our products, product features, scope of distribution and distribution arrangements, price, perceived financial strength and claims-paying and credit ratings. a decline in our competitive position as to one or more of these factors could adversely affect our profitability and assets under management. many of our competitors are large and well capitalized and some have greater market share or breadth of distribution, offer a broader range of products, services or features, assume a greater level of risk, have lower profitability expectations or have higher claims-paying or credit ratings than we do. the proliferation and growth of non-affiliated distribution channels puts pressure on our captive sales channels to either increase their productivity or reduce their costs in order to remain competitive, and we run the risk that the marketplace will make a more significant or rapid shift to non-affiliated or direct distribution alternatives than we anticipate or are able to achieve ourselves, potentially adversely affecting our market share and results of operations. competition for personnel in all of our businesses is intense, including for prudential agents, life planners and life advisors, other face-to-face sales personnel, desirable non-affiliated distribution channels and our investment managers. the loss of personnel could have an adverse effect on our business and profitability. changes in u.s. federal income tax law or in the income tax laws of other jurisdictions in which we operate could make some of our products less attractive to consumers and increase our tax costs. current u.s. federal income tax laws generally permit holders to defer taxation on the build-up of value of annuities and life insurance products until payments are actually made to the policyholder or other beneficiary and to exclude from taxation the build-up of value which is paid as a death benefit under a life insurance contract. congress from time to time considers legislation that could make our products less attractive to 37 table of contents consumers, including legislation that would reduce or eliminate the benefit of this deferral on some annuities and insurance products, as well as other types of changes that could reduce or eliminate the attractiveness of annuities and life insurance products to consumers, such as repeal of the estate tax. for example, the economic growth and tax relief reconciliation act of 2001 and the jobs and growth tax relief reconciliation act of 2003 generally provide for lower income tax, capital gains and dividend tax rates that might have the effect of reducing the benefits of tax deferral on the build-up of value of annuities and life insurance products. the bush administration continues to propose that many of the rate reductions pursuant to these acts be made permanent as well as to propose several tax-favored savings initiatives. proposed changes to the social security program would allow a portion of an individual social security contributions to be privately invested which, if enacted, could affect sales of some of our products. these changes or other tax law changes might hinder our sales and result in the increased surrender of insurance and annuity products. congress, as well as foreign, state and local governments, also considers from time to time legislation that could increase our tax costs. if such legislation is adopted, our consolidated net income could decline. we have substantial international operations and our international operations face political, legal, operational and other risks that could adversely affect those operations or our profitability. a substantial portion of our revenues and income from continuing operations is derived from our operations in foreign countries, primarily japan and korea. these operations are subject to restrictions on transferring funds out of the countries in which these operations are located. some of our foreign insurance and investment management operations are, and are likely to continue to be, in emerging markets where this risk as well as risks of discriminatory regulation, labor issues in connection with workers associations and trade unions, price controls, exchange controls, nationalization or expropriation of assets, are heightened. if our business model is not successful in a particular country, we may lose all or most of our investment in building and training our sales force in that country. many of our insurance products sold in international markets provide for the buildup of cash values for the policyholder at contractually fixed guaranteed interest rates, including in japan. actual returns on the underlying investments do not necessarily match the guaranteed interest rates and there may be times when the spread between the actual investment returns and these guaranteed rates of return to the policyholder is negative and in which this negative spread may not be offset by the mortality, morbidity and expense charges we earn on the products. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect our profitability. we are exposed to foreign currency exchange risks in our domestic general account investment portfolios, other proprietary investment portfolios and through our operations in foreign countries. currency fluctuations may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. for a discussion of our currency exposures and related hedging activities, see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. our businesses are heavily regulated and changes in regulation may reduce our profitability. our businesses are subject to comprehensive regulation and supervision. the purpose of this regulation is primarily to protect our customers and not our shareholders. many of the laws and regulations to which we are subject are regularly re-examined, and existing or future laws and regulations may become more restrictive or otherwise adversely affect our operations. prudential financial is subject to the rules and regulations of the sec and the nyse relating to public reporting and disclosure, securities trading, accounting and financial reporting, and corporate governance matters. the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and rules and regulations adopted in furtherance of that act have substantially increased the requirements in these and other areas for public companies such as prudential financial. many insurance regulatory and other governmental or self-regulatory bodies have the authority to review our products and business practices and those of our agents and employees and to bring regulatory or other legal 38 table of contents actions against us if, in their view, our practices, or those of our agents or employees, are improper. these actions can result in substantial fines, penalties or prohibitions or restrictions on our business activities and could adversely affect our business, reputation, results of operations or financial condition. for a discussion of material pending litigation and regulatory matters, see legal proceedings. congress from time to time considers pension reform legislation that could make certain of our retirement products and services less attractive to retirement plan sponsors and administrators. for example, current proposals concerning pension funding obligations could significantly increase the costs associated with maintaining defined benefit pension plans. these changes could hinder sales of defined benefit plan products and services and cause plan sponsors to discontinue existing defined benefit plans for which we provide asset management or administrative services. the bush administration also continues to propose several tax-favored savings initiatives. these initiatives could hinder sales and persistency of our products and services that support employment based retirement plans. the naic has adopted a model regulation entitled valuation of life insurance policies, commonly known as regulation xxx, and a supporting guideline entitled the application of the valuation of life insurance policies, commonly known as guideline axxx. the regulation and supporting guideline require insurers to establish statutory reserves for term and universal life insurance policies with long-term premium guarantees that are consistent with the statutory reserves required for other individual life insurance policies with similar guarantees. many market participants believe that this level of reserves is excessive, and we have implemented reinsurance and capital management actions to mitigate the impact of regulation xxx on our term insurance business. however, we may not be able to implement actions to mitigate the impact of regulation xxx and guideline axxx on future sales of term and universal life insurance products, thereby potentially requiring us to incur higher operating costs than we currently anticipate, reduce our sales of these products or implement measures that may be disruptive to our business. insurance regulators, as well as industry participants, have also begun to consider potentially significant changes in the way in which statutory reserves and statutory capital are determined, particularly for products with embedded options and guarantees. new regulatory capital requirements have already gone into effect for variable annuity products. the timing of, and extent of, such changes to the statutory reporting framework are uncertain; however, the result could be increases to statutory reserves and capital, and an adverse effect on our products, sales and operating costs. legal and regulatory actions are inherent in our businesses and could adversely affect our results of operations or harm our businesses or reputation. we are, and in the future may be, subject to legal and regulatory actions in the ordinary course of our businesses, including in businesses that we have divested or placed in wind-down status. some of these proceedings have been brought on behalf of various alleged classes of complainants. in certain of these matters, the plaintiffs are seeking large and/or indeterminate amounts, including punitive or exemplary damages. substantial legal liability in these or future legal or regulatory actions could have an adverse affect on us or cause us reputational harm, which in turn could harm our business prospects. material pending litigation and regulatory matters affecting us, and certain risks to our businesses presented by such matters, are discussed under legal proceedings. as described there, settlement of the market timing and late trading matters relating to our former prudential securities retail securities brokerage operations and certain american skandia entities could involve, in addition to the payment of fines, penalties and restitution, continuing monitoring, changes to and/or supervision of our business practices, findings that may adversely affect existing or cause additional litigation, adverse publicity and other adverse impacts to our businesses. our litigation and regulatory matters are subject to many uncertainties, and given their complexity and scope, their outcome cannot be predicted. our reserves for litigation and regulatory matters may prove to be inadequate. it is possible that our results of operations or cash flow in a particular quarterly or annual period could be materially affected by an ultimate unfavorable resolution of pending litigation and regulatory matters depending, in part, upon the results of operations or cash flow for such period. 39 table of contents the occurrence of natural or man-made disasters could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. the occurrence of natural disasters, including hurricanes, floods, earthquakes, tornadoes, fires, explosions, pandemic disease and man-made disasters, including acts of terrorism and military actions, could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition, including in the following respects: catastrophic loss of life due to natural or man-made disasters could cause us to pay benefits at higher levels and/or materially earlier than anticipated and could lead to unexpected changes in persistency rates. a natural or man-made disaster could result in losses in our investment portfolio or the failure of our counterparties to perform, or cause significant volatility in global financial markets. a terrorist attack affecting financial institutions in the united states or elsewhere could negatively impact the financial services industry in general and our business operations, investment portfolio and profitability in particular. as previously reported, in august 2004, the u.s. department of homeland security identified our newark, new jersey facilities, along with those of several other financial institutions in new york and washington, d.c., as possible targets of a terrorist attack. pandemic disease, caused by a virus such as h5n1 (the avian flu virus), could have a severe adverse effect on prudential financial business. the potential impact of such a pandemic on prudential financial results of operations, liquidity and financial position is highly speculative, and would depend on numerous factors, including: the probability of the virus mutating to a form that can be passed from human to human; the rate of contagion if and when that occurs; the regions of the world most affected; the effectiveness of treatment for the infected population; the rates of mortality and morbidity among various segments of the insured versus the uninsured population; the collectibility of reinsurance; the possible macroeconomic effects of a pandemic on the company asset portfolio; the effect on lapses and surrenders of existing policies, as well as sales of new policies; and many other variables. there can be no assurance that our business continuation plans and insurance coverages would be effective in mitigating any negative effects on our operations or profitability in the event of a terrorist attack or other disaster. our risk management policies and procedures and minority investments in joint ventures may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk, which could adversely affect our businesses or result in losses. our policies and procedures to monitor and manage risks may not be fully effective and may leave us exposed to unidentified and unanticipated risks. management of operational, legal and regulatory risks requires, among other things, policies and procedures to record properly and verify a large number of transactions and events, and these policies and procedures may not be fully effective. past or future employee misconduct could result in violations of law by us, regulatory sanctions and/or serious reputational or financial harm and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. a failure of our computer systems or a compromise of their security could also subject us to regulatory sanctions or other claims, harm our reputation, interrupt our operations and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. in our investments in which we hold a minority interest, including wachovia securities financial holdings, llc, we lack management and operational control over its operations, which may prevent us from taking or causing to be taken actions to protect or increase the value of those investments. we face risks arising from acquisitions, divestitures and restructurings, including client losses, surrenders and withdrawals, difficulties in integrating and realizing the projected results of acquisitions and contingent liabilities with respect to dispositions. we face a number of risks arising from acquisition transactions, including the risk that, following the acquisition or reorganization of a business, we could experience client losses, surrenders or withdrawals materially different from those we anticipate, as well as difficulties in integrating and realizing the projected results of acquisitions and restructurings and managing the litigation and regulatory matters to which acquired entities are party. we have retained insurance or reinsurance obligations and other contingent liabilities in connection with our divestiture or winding down of various businesses, including with respect to the retail 40 table of contents securities brokerage and securities clearing operations that we contributed to the joint venture with wachovia corporation, and our reserves for these obligations and liabilities may prove to be inadequate. these risks may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. changes in our discount rate, expected rate of return and expected compensation increase assumptions for our pension and other postretirement benefit plans may result in increased expenses and reduce our profitability. we determine our pension and other postretirement benefit plan costs based on assumed discount rates, expected rates of return on plan assets and expected increases in compensation levels and trends in health care costs. changes in these assumptions may result in increased expenses and reduce our profitability. our ability to pay shareholder dividends, to continue share repurchases and to meet obligations may be adversely affected by limitations imposed on inter-affiliate distributions and transfers by prudential insurance and our other subsidiaries. prudential financial is the holding company for all our operations, and dividends, returns of capital and interest income from its subsidiaries are the principal source of funds available to prudential financial to pay shareholder dividends, to make share repurchases and to meet its other obligations. these sources of funds are complemented by prudential financial access to the capital markets and bank facilities. as described under business regulation and management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources, our domestic and foreign insurance and various other subsidiary companies, including prudential insurance, are subject to regulatory limitations on the payment of dividends and on other transfers of funds to prudential financial. in addition to these regulatory limitations, the terms of the ihc debt contain restrictions potentially limiting dividends by prudential insurance applicable to the financial services businesses in the event the closed block business is in financial distress and under other circumstances. these restrictions on prudential financial subsidiaries may limit such subsidiaries from making dividend payments to prudential financial in an amount sufficient to fund prudential financial cash requirements and shareholder dividends. from time to time, the national association of insurance commissioners, or naic, and various state and foreign insurance regulators have considered, and may in the future consider, proposals to further limit dividend payments that an insurance company may make without regulatory approval. regulatory requirements, provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and our shareholder rights plan could delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that shareholders might consider in their best interests. various states in which our insurance companies are domiciled, including new jersey, must approve any direct or indirect change of control of insurance companies organized in those states. under most states statutes, an entity is presumed to have control of an insurance company if it owns, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of the voting stock of that insurance company or its parent company. federal, and in some cases, state, banking authorities would also have to approve the indirect change of control of our banking operations. the federal securities laws could also require reapproval by customers of our investment advisory contracts to manage mutual funds, including mutual funds included in annuity products, upon a change in control. in addition, the new jersey business corporation act prohibits certain business combinations with interested shareholders. these regulatory and other restrictions may delay a potential merger or sale of prudential financial, even if the board of directors decides that it is in the best interests of shareholders to merge or be sold. prudential financial certificate of incorporation and by-laws also contain provisions that may delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that shareholders might consider in their best interests. these provisions may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock and include: classification of prudential financial board of directors into three classes (pending completion in 2007 of the phased elimination of the classification of the board); a prohibition on the removal of the remaining classified directors without cause; a restriction on the filling of vacancies on the board of directors by shareholders; restrictions on the calling of special meetings by shareholders; a requirement that shareholders may take action without a meeting only by unanimous written consent; advance notice procedures for the nomination of candidates to the board of directors 41 table of contents and shareholder proposals to be considered at shareholder meetings; and supermajority voting requirements for the amendment of certain provisions of the certificate of incorporation and by-laws. prudential financial shareholders rights plan also creates obstacles that may delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that shareholders might consider in their best interests. holders of our common stock are subject to risks due to the issuance of our class b stock, a second class of common stock. the businesses of prudential financial are separated into the financial services businesses and the closed block business, and our common stock reflects the performance of the financial services businesses and the class b stock reflects the performance of the closed block business. there are a number of risks to holders of our common stock by virtue of this dual common stock structure, including: even though we allocate all our consolidated assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses and cash flow between the financial services businesses and the closed block business for financial statement purposes, there is no legal separation between the financial services businesses and the closed block business. holders of common stock have no interest in a separate legal entity representing the financial services businesses; holders of the class b stock have no interest in a separate legal entity representing the closed block business; and therefore holders of each class of common stock are subject to all of the risks associated with an investment in the company. the financial results of the closed block business, including debt service on the ihc debt, will affect prudential financial consolidated results of operations, financial position and borrowing costs. the market value of our common stock may not reflect solely the performance of the financial services businesses. we cannot pay cash dividends on our common stock for any period if we choose not to pay dividends on the class b stock in an aggregate amount at least equal to the lesser of the cb distributable cash flow or the target dividend amount on the class b stock for that period. see market for registrant common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities convertibility for the definition of these terms. any net losses of the closed block business, and any dividends or distributions on, or repurchases of the class b stock, would reduce the assets of prudential financial legally available for dividends on the common stock. net income for the financial services businesses and the closed block business includes general and administrative expenses charged to each of the respective businesses based on the company methodology for the allocation of such expenses. cash flows to the financial services businesses from the closed block business related to administrative expenses are determined by a policy servicing fee arrangement that is based upon insurance and policies in force and statutory cash premiums. the difference between the administrative expenses allocated to the closed block business and these cash flow amounts are recorded, on an after tax basis, as direct equity adjustments to the equity balances of the businesses and included in the determination of earnings per share for each business. a change in cash flow amounts between the businesses that is inconsistent with changes in general and administrative expenses we incur will affect the earnings per share of the common stock and class b stock. holders of common stock and class b stock vote together as a single class of common stock under new jersey law, except as otherwise required by law and except that the holders of the class b stock have class voting or consent rights with respect to specified matters directly affecting the class b stock. shares of class b stock are entitled to a higher proportionate amount upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of prudential financial, than shares of common stock. we may exchange the class b stock for shares of common stock at any time, and the class b stock is mandatorily exchangeable in the event of a sale of all or substantially all of the closed block business or a change of control of prudential financial. under these circumstances, shares of class b stock would be exchanged for shares of common stock with an aggregate average market value equal to 120% of the then appraised fair market value of the class b stock. for a description of change of control and fair market value , see market for registrant common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities convertibility. holders of class b stock may in their discretion, 42 table of contents beginning in 2016, and at any time in the event of specified regulatory events, convert their shares of class b stock into shares of common stock with an aggregate average market value equal to 100% of the then appraised fair market value of the class b stock. any exchange or conversion could occur at a time when either or both of the common stock and class b stock may be considered overvalued or undervalued. accordingly, any such exchange or conversion may be disadvantageous to holders of common stock. our board of directors has adopted certain policies regarding inter-business transfers and accounting and tax matters, including the allocation of earnings, with respect to the financial services businesses and closed block business. although the board of directors may change any of these policies, any such decision is subject to the board of directors general fiduciary duties, and we have agreed with investors in the class b stock and the insurer of the ihc debt that, in most cases, the board of directors may not change these policies without their consent. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 136 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management, market risk and derivative instruments risk management includes the identification and measurement of various forms of risk, the establishment of risk thresholds and the creation of processes intended to maintain risks within these thresholds while optimizing returns on the underlying assets or liabilities. we consider risk management an integral part of managing our core businesses. market risk is the risk of change in the value of financial instruments as a result of absolute or relative changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates or equity or commodity prices. to varying degrees, the investment and trading activities supporting all of our products and services generate exposure to market risk. the market risk incurred and our strategies for managing this risk varies by product. with respect to non-variable life insurance products, fixed rate annuities, the fixed rate options in our variable life insurance and annuity products, and other finance businesses, we incur market risk primarily in the form of interest rate risk. we manage this risk through asset/liability management strategies that seek to match the interest rate sensitivity of the assets to that of the underlying liabilities. our overall objective in these strategies is to limit the net change in value of assets and liabilities arising from interest rate movements. while it is more difficult to measure the interest sensitivity of our insurance liabilities than that of the related assets, to the extent that we can measure such sensitivities we believe that interest rate movements will generate asset value changes that substantially offset changes in the value of the liabilities relating to the underlying products. for variable annuities and variable life insurance products, excluding the fixed rate options in these products, mutual funds and most separate accounts, our main exposure to the market is the risk that asset based fees decrease as a result of declines in assets under management due to changes in prices of securities. we also run the risk that asset management fees calculated by reference to performance could be lower. for variable annuity and variable life insurance products with minimum guaranteed death and other benefits, we also face the risk that declines in the value of underlying investments as a result of changes in prices of securities may increase our net exposure to these death and other benefits under these contracts. the impact of these risks is reflected in the results of the individual life and annuities segment; see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations results of operations for financial services businesses by segment insurance division individual life and annuities for a discussion of the results of the individual life and annuities segment. we manage our exposure to equity price risk relating to our general account investments primarily by seeking to match the risk profile of equity investments against risk-adjusted equity market benchmarks. we measure benchmark risk levels in terms of price volatility in relation to the market in general. the sources of our exposure to market risk can be divided into two categories, other than trading activities conducted primarily in our insurance, annuity and guaranteed products operations, and trading activities conducted primarily in our equity and derivatives trading operations. as part of our management of both other than trading and trading market risks, we use a variety of risk management tools and techniques. these include sensitivity and value-at-risk, or var, measures, position and other limits based on type of risk, and various hedging methods. other than trading activities we hold the majority of our assets for other than trading activities in our segments that offer insurance, annuities and guaranteed products. we incorporate asset/liability management techniques and other risk management policies and limits into the process of investing our assets. we use derivatives for hedging purposes in the asset/liability management process. insurance, annuities and guaranteed products asset/liability management we seek to maintain interest rate and equity exposures within established ranges, which we periodically adjust based on market conditions and the design of related products sold to customers. our risk managers establish investment risk limits for exposures to any issuer, geographic region, type of security or industry sector and oversee efforts to manage risk within policy constraints set by management and approved by the investment committee of the board of directors. 136 table of contents we use duration and convexity analyses to measure price sensitivity to interest rate changes. duration measures the relative sensitivity of the fair value of a financial instrument to changes in interest rates. convexity measures the rate of change of duration with respect to changes in interest rates. we seek to manage our interest rate exposure by legal entity by matching the relative sensitivity of asset and liability values to interest rate changes, or controlling duration mismatch of assets and liabilities. we have target duration mismatch constraints for each entity. as of december 31, 2005 and 2004, the difference between the pre-tax duration of assets and the target duration of liabilities in our duration managed portfolios was within our constraint limits. we consider risk-based capital implications in our asset/liability management strategies. we also perform portfolio stress testing as part of our regulatory cash flow testing. in this testing, we evaluate the impact of altering our interest-sensitive assumptions under various moderately adverse interest rate environments. these interest-sensitive assumptions relate to the timing and amount of redemptions and prepayments of fixed-income securities and lapses and surrenders of insurance products and the potential impact of any guaranteed minimum interest rates. we evaluate any shortfalls that this cash flow testing reveals to determine if we need to increase statutory reserves or adjust portfolio management strategies. market risk related to interest rates our other than trading assets that subject us to interest rate risk include primarily fixed maturity securities, commercial loans and policy loans. in the aggregate, the carrying value of these assets represented 78% of our consolidated assets, other than assets that we held in separate accounts, as of december 31, 2005 and 70% as of december 31, 2004. with respect to other than trading liabilities, we are exposed to interest rate risk through policyholder account balances relating to interest-sensitive life insurance, annuity and other investment-type contracts, collectively referred to as investment contracts, and through outstanding short-term and long-term debt. we assess interest rate sensitivity for other than trading financial assets, financial liabilities and derivatives using hypothetical test scenarios that assume either upward or downward 100 basis point parallel shifts in the yield curve from prevailing interest rates. the following tables set forth the net estimated potential loss in fair value from a hypothetical 100 basis point upward shift as of december 31, 2005 and 2004, because this scenario results in the greatest net exposure to interest rate risk of the hypothetical scenarios tested at those dates. while the test scenario is for illustrative purposes only and does not reflect our expectations regarding future interest rates or the performance of fixed-income markets, it is a near-term, reasonably possible hypothetical change that illustrates the potential impact of such events. these test scenarios do not measure the changes in value that could result from non-parallel shifts in the yield curve, which we would expect to produce different changes in discount rates for different maturities. as a result, the actual loss in fair value from a 100 basis point change in interest rates could be different from that indicated by these calculations. as of december 31, 2005 notional value of derivatives fair value hypothetical fair value after + 100 basis point parallel yield curve shift hypothetical change in fair value (in millions) financial assets with interest rate risk: fixed maturities $ 171,339 $ 160,731 $ (10,608 ) commercial loans 23,952 22,931 (1,021 ) mortgage broker-loan inventory 1,143 1,139 (4 ) policy loans 9,416 8,809 (607 ) derivatives: swaps $ 28,730 (569 ) (598 ) (29 ) futures 2,110 1 65 64 options 1,457 112 71 (41 ) forwards 14,303 (65 ) (93 ) (28 ) financial liabilities with interest rate risk: short-term and long-term debt (19,845 ) (19,223 ) 622 investment contracts (64,708 ) (63,447 ) 1,261 net estimated potential loss $ (10,391 ) 137 table of contents as of december 31, 2004 notional value of derivatives fair value hypothetical fair value after + 100 basis point parallel yield curve shift hypothetical change in fair value (in millions) financial assets with interest rate risk: fixed maturities $ 165,409 $ 155,246 $ (10,163 ) commercial loans 25,662 24,644 (1,018 ) mortgage broker-loan inventory 993 987 (6 ) policy loans 9,794 9,178 (616 ) derivatives: swaps $ 16,443 (698 ) (708 ) (10 ) futures 2,202 4 (49 ) (53 ) options 760 36 21 (15 ) forwards 12,718 (152 ) (215 ) (63 ) financial liabilities with interest rate risk: short-term and long-term debt (12,271 ) (11,694 ) 577 investment contracts (66,444 ) (65,119 ) 1,325 net estimated potential loss $ (10,042 ) the tables above do not include approximately $113 billion of insurance reserve and deposit liabilities as of december 31, 2005 and $113 billion as of december 31, 2004. we believe that the interest rate sensitivities of these insurance liabilities offset, in large measure, the interest rate risk of the financial assets set forth in these tables. the $349 million increase in the total estimated potential loss as of december 31, 2005 from december 31, 2004 resulted primarily from the increase in our portfolio of fixed maturities. the estimated changes in fair values of our financial assets shown above relate primarily to assets invested to support our insurance liabilities, but do not include assets associated with products for which investment risk is borne primarily by the contractholders rather than by us. market risk related to equity prices we actively manage investment equity price risk against benchmarks in respective markets. we benchmark our return on equity holdings against a blend of market indices, mainly the s&amp;p 500 and russell 2000, and we target price sensitivities that approximate those of the benchmark indices. we estimate our equity price risk from a hypothetical 10% decline in equity benchmark market levels and measure this risk in terms of the decline in fair market value of equity securities we hold. using this methodology, our estimated equity price risk as of december 31, 2005 was $563 million, representing a hypothetical decline in fair market value of equity securities we held at that date from $5.634 billion to $5.071 billion. our estimated equity price risk using this methodology as of december 31, 2004 was $477 million, representing a hypothetical decline in fair market value of equity securities we held at that date from $4.772 billion to $4.295 billion. in calculating these amounts, we exclude equity securities related to products for which the investment risk is borne primarily by the contractholder rather than by us. while these scenarios are for illustrative purposes only and do not reflect our expectations regarding future performance of equity markets or of our equity portfolio, they represent near term reasonably possible hypothetical changes that illustrate the potential impact of such events. market risk related to foreign currency exchange rates we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk in our domestic general account investment portfolios, other proprietary investment portfolios and through our operations in foreign countries. our exposure to foreign currency risk within the domestic general account investment portfolios supporting our u.s. insurance operations and other domestic proprietary investment portfolios arises primarily from investments that are denominated in foreign currencies. we generally hedge substantially all domestic general account foreign currency-denominated fixed-income investments and other domestic proprietary foreign 138 table of contents currency investments into u.s. dollars in order to mitigate the risk that the cash flows or fair value of these investments fluctuates as a result of changes in foreign exchange rates. we generally do not hedge all of the foreign currency risk of our investments in equity securities of unaffiliated foreign entities. our operations in foreign countries create the following three additional sources of foreign currency risk: first, we reflect the operating results of our foreign operations in our financial statements based on the average exchange rates prevailing during the period. we hedge some of these foreign currency operating results as part of our overall risk management strategy. we generally hedge our anticipated exposure to adjusted operating income fluctuations resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates relating to our international operations primarily in japan, korea, taiwan and europe. second, we translate our equity investment in foreign operations into u.s. dollars using the foreign currency exchange rate at the financial statement period-end date. for our equity investments in our international operations, other than in japan, we generally hedge a significant portion of this exposure, which we accomplish through the use of foreign currency forward contracts. for our equity investments in our japanese operations we generally hedge this exposure by holding u.s. dollar denominated securities in the investment portfolios of these operations. third, our international insurance operations may hold investments denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of those operations on an unhedged basis in addition to the aforementioned equity hedges resulting from foreign subsidiaries investing in u.s. dollar denominated investments. most significantly, our japanese operations hold u.s. dollar denominated investments in their investment portfolios in excess of our equity investment in such operations. for a discussion of our japanese operations u.s. dollar denominated investment holdings, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations realized investment gains and general account investments general account investments portfolio composition. we manage our investment foreign currency exchange rate risks, described above, within specified limits. foreign exchange risks for our domestic general account investment portfolio and the unhedged portion of our equity investment in foreign subsidiaries are managed using var-based analysis. this statistical technique estimates, at a specified confidence level, the potential pre-tax loss in portfolio market value that could occur over an assumed time horizon due to adverse market movements. the estimated var as of december 31, 2005 for foreign exchange risks in our domestic general account portfolio and the unhedged portion of equity investment in foreign subsidiaries, measured at a 95% confidence level and using a one-month time horizon, was $20 million, representing a hypothetical decline in fair market value of these foreign currency assets from $967 million to $947 million. the estimated var as of december 31, 2004 for foreign exchange risks in our domestic general account portfolio and the unhedged portion of equity investment in foreign subsidiaries, measured at a 95% confidence level and using a one-month time horizon, was $35 million, representing a hypothetical decline in fair market value of these foreign currency assets from $1.241 billion to $1.206 billion. the average var for foreign exchange risks in our domestic general account portfolio and the unhedged portion of equity investment in foreign subsidiaries, from foreign currency exchange rate movements, measured monthly at a 95% confidence level over a one month time horizon, was $32 million during 2005 and $35 million during 2004. these calculations use historical price volatilities and correlation data at a 95% confidence level. we discuss limitations of var models below. the estimated var for instruments used to hedge our anticipated exposure to adjusted operating income fluctuations resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates relating to our international operations, measured at a 95% confidence level and using a one-month time horizon, was $75 million as of december 31, 2005 and $110 million as of december 31, 2004. derivatives derivatives are financial instruments whose values are derived from interest rates, foreign exchange rates, financial indices, or the prices of securities or commodities. derivative financial instruments may be exchange-traded or contracted in the over-the-counter market and include swaps, futures, options and forward contracts. see note 19 to the consolidated financial statements for a description of our derivative activities as of 139 table of contents december 31, 2005 and 2004. under insurance statutes, our insurance companies may use derivative financial instruments to hedge actual or anticipated changes in their assets or liabilities, to replicate cash market instruments or for certain income-generating activities. these statutes generally prohibit the use of derivatives for speculative purposes. we use derivative financial instruments primarily to seek to reduce market risk from changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, as well as equity prices, and to alter interest rate or foreign currency exposures arising from mismatches between assets and liabilities. in addition, we use derivative financial instruments to mitigate risk associated with some of our benefit features of our variable annuity contracts. trading activities we engage in trading activities primarily in connection with our equity and derivatives trading operations. we maintain trading positions in various equity, foreign exchange instruments and commodities, primarily to facilitate transactions for our clients. market risk affects the values of our trading positions through fluctuations in absolute or relative interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, securities and commodity prices. we seek to use short security positions and forwards, futures, options and other derivatives to limit exposure to interest rate and other market risks. we also trade derivative financial instruments that allow our clients to manage exposure to interest rate, currency and other market risks. our derivative transactions involve both exchange-listed and over-the-counter contracts and are generally short-term in duration. we act both as a broker, buying and selling exchange-listed contracts for our customers, and as a dealer, by entering into futures and security transactions as a principal. as a broker, we assume counterparty and credit risks that we seek to mitigate by using margin or other credit enhancements and by establishing trading limits and credit lines. as a dealer, we are subject to market risk as well as counterparty and credit risk. we manage the market risk associated with trading activities through hedging activities and formal policies, risk and position limits, counterparty and credit limits, daily position monitoring, and other forms of risk management. value-at-risk var is one of the tools we use to monitor and manage our exposure to the market risk of our trading activities. we calculate a var that encompasses our trading activities using a 95% confidence level. the var method incorporates the risk factors to which the market value of our trading activities is exposed, which consist of interest rates, including credit spreads, foreign exchange rates, equity prices and commodity prices, estimates of volatilities from historical data, the sensitivity of our trading activities to changes in those market factors and the correlations of those factors. we test our var model by comparing actual adverse results to those estimated by the var model with a 95% confidence level over a one-day time horizon. the total var for our trading activities, which considers our combined exposure to interest rate risk, equity risk, foreign currency exchange rate risk, and commodities price risk, expressed in terms of adverse changes to fair value at a 95% confidence level over a one-day time horizon, was $1 million as of december 31, 2005 and $1 million as of december 31, 2004. the largest component of this total var as of december 31, 2005 and 2004 was related to commodities price risk. the total average daily var for our trading activities considering our exposure to interest rate risk, equity risk, foreign currency exchange rate risk, and commodities price risk, expressed in terms of adverse changes to fair value with a 95% confidence level over a one-day time horizon, was $1 million during 2005 and $1 million during 2004. the largest component of both periods total average daily var was related to commodities price risk. limitations of var models although var models are a recognized tool for risk management, they have inherent limitations, including reliance on historical data that may not be indicative of future market conditions or trading patterns. accordingly, var models should not be viewed as a predictor of future results. we may incur losses that could be materially in excess of the amounts indicated by the models on a particular trading day or over a period of time, and there have been instances when results have fallen outside the values generated by our var models. a var model does not estimate the greatest possible loss. the results of these models and analysis thereof are subject to the judgment of our risk management personnel. 140 table of contentsrisk factors 35 risk factors you should carefully consider the following risks. these risks could materially affect our business, results of operations or financial condition, cause the trading price of our common stock to decline materially or cause our actual results to differ materially from those expected or those expressed in any forward looking statements made by or on behalf of the company. these risks are not exclusive, and additional risks to which we are subject include, but are not limited to, the factors mentioned under forward-looking statements above and the risks of our businesses described elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k. market fluctuations and general economic, market and political conditions may adversely affect our business and profitability. our insurance products and certain of our investment products, and our investment returns, are sensitive to stock, real estate and other market fluctuations and general economic, market and political conditions and these fluctuations and changes could adversely affect our investment returns and results of operations, including in the following respects: the profitability of many of our insurance products depends in part on the value of the separate accounts supporting these products, which may fluctuate substantially depending on the foregoing conditions. market conditions resulting in reductions in the value of assets we manage would have an adverse effect on the revenues and profitability of our asset management services, which depend on fees related primarily to the value of assets under management, and would decrease the value of our proprietary investments. a change in market conditions, including prolonged periods of high inflation, could cause a change in consumer sentiment adversely affecting sales and persistency of our long-term savings and protection products. sales of our investment-based and asset management products and services may decline and lapses of variable life and annuity products and withdrawals of assets from other investment products may increase if a market downturn, increased market volatility or other market conditions result in customers becoming dissatisfied with their investments or products. a market decline could result in guaranteed minimum benefits contained in many of our variable annuity products being higher than current account values or our pricing assumptions would support, requiring us to materially increase reserves for such products. market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection we purchase. accordingly, we may be forced to incur additional expenses for reinsurance or may not be able to obtain sufficient reinsurance on acceptable terms which could adversely affect the profitability of future business or our willingness to write future business. 35 table of contents interest rate fluctuations could adversely affect our businesses and profitability. our insurance products and certain of our investment products, and our investment returns, are sensitive to interest rate fluctuations, and changes in interest rates could adversely affect our investment returns and results of operations, including in the following respects: some of our products expose us to the risk that changes in interest rates will reduce the spread between the amounts that we are required to pay under the contracts and the rate of return we are able to earn on our general account investments supporting the contracts. when interest rates decline, we have to reinvest the cash income from our investments in lower yielding instruments. since many of our policies and contracts have guaranteed minimum interest or crediting rates or limit the resetting of interest rates, the spreads could decrease and potentially become negative. when interest rates rise, we may not be able to replace the assets in our general account with the higher yielding assets needed to fund the higher crediting rates necessary to keep these products and contracts competitive. changes in interest rates may reduce our spreads or result in potential losses in our investment activities in which we borrow funds and purchase investments to earn additional spread income on the borrowed funds. a decline in market interest rates could also reduce our returns from investment of equity. when interest rates rise, policy loans and surrenders and withdrawals of life insurance policies and annuity contracts may increase as policyholders seek to buy products with perceived higher returns, requiring us to sell investment assets potentially resulting in realized investment losses, or requiring us to accelerate the amortization of dac or voba (both defined below). a decline in interest rates accompanied by unexpected prepayments of certain investments could result in reduced investments and a decline in our profitability. an increase in interest rates accompanied by unexpected extensions of certain lower yielding investments could result in a decline in our profitability. changes in the relationship between long-term and short-term interest rates could adversely affect the profitability of some of our products. changes in interest rates could increase our costs of financing. if our reserves for future policyholder benefits and claims are inadequate, we may be required to increase our reserves, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we establish and carry reserves to pay future policyholder benefits and claims. our reserves do not represent an exact calculation of liability, but rather are actuarial or statistical estimates based on many assumptions and projections which are inherently uncertain and involve the exercise of significant judgment, including as to the levels of and/or timing of receipt or payment of premiums, benefits, claims, expenses, interest credits, investment results, retirement, mortality, morbidity and persistency. we cannot determine with precision the ultimate amounts that we will pay for, or the timing of payment of, actual benefits, claims and expenses or whether the assets supporting our policy liabilities, together with future premiums, will be sufficient for payment of benefits and claims. if we conclude that our reserves, together with future premiums, are insufficient to cover future policy benefits and claims, we would be required to increase our reserves and incur income statement charges for the period in which we make the determination, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. our profitability may decline if mortality rates, morbidity rates or persistency rates differ significantly from our pricing expectations. we set prices for many of our insurance and annuity products based upon expected claims and payment patterns, using assumptions for mortality rates, or likelihood of death, and morbidity rates, or likelihood of sickness, of our policyholders. in addition to the potential effect of natural or man-made disasters, significant changes in mortality or morbidity could emerge gradually over time, due to changes in the natural environment, the health habits of the insured population, treatment patterns for disease or disability, or other factors. pricing of our insurance and deferred annuity products are also based in part upon expected persistency of these products, which is the probability that a policy or contract will remain in force from one period to the next. the development of a secondary market for life insurance, including life settlements or viaticals and investor owned life insurance, could adversely affect the profitability of existing business and our pricing assumptions for 36 table of contents new business. significant deviations in actual experience from our pricing assumptions could have an adverse effect on the profitability of our products. although some of our products permit us to increase premiums or adjust other charges and credits during the life of the policy or contract, the adjustments permitted under the terms of the policies or contracts may not be sufficient to maintain profitability. many of our products do not permit us to increase premiums or adjust other charges and credits or limit those adjustments during the life of the policy or contract. we may be required to accelerate the amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs, or dac, or valuation of business acquired, or voba, or recognize impairment in the value of our goodwill, which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. deferred policy acquisition costs, or dac, represent the costs that vary with and are related primarily to the acquisition of new and renewal insurance and annuity contracts, and we amortize these costs over the expected lives of the contracts. valuation of business acquired, or voba, represents the present value of future profits embedded in acquired insurance, annuity and investment-type contracts and is amortized over the expected effective lives of the acquired contracts. goodwill represents the excess of the amounts we paid to acquire subsidiaries and other businesses over the fair value of their net assets at the date of acquisition. management, on an ongoing basis, tests the dac and voba recorded on our balance sheet to determine if these amounts are recoverable under current assumptions. in addition, we regularly review the estimates and assumptions underlying dac and voba for those products for which we amortize dac and voba in proportion to gross profits or gross margins. management tests goodwill for impairment at least annually based upon estimates of the fair value of the reporting unit to which the goodwill relates. given changes in facts and circumstances, these tests and reviews could lead to reductions in goodwill, dac and/or voba that could have an adverse effect on the results of our operations and our financial condition. a downgrade or potential downgrade in our claims-paying or credit ratings could limit our ability to market products, increase the number or value of policies being surrendered, increase our borrowing costs and/or hurt our relationships with creditors or trading counterparties. claims-paying ratings, which are sometimes referred to as financial strength ratings, represent the opinions of rating agencies regarding the financial ability of an insurance company to meet its obligations under an insurance policy, and are important factors affecting public confidence in an insurer and its competitive position in marketing products, including prudential insurance and our other insurance company subsidiaries. credit ratings represent the opinions of rating agencies regarding an entity ability to repay its indebtedness, and prudential financial credit ratings are important to our ability to raise capital through the issuance of debt and to the cost of such financing. a downgrade in our claims-paying or credit ratings could limit our ability to market products, reduce our competitiveness, increase the number or value of policies being surrendered, increase our borrowing costs, cause additional collateral requirements under certain agreements, and/or hurt our relationships with creditors or trading counterparties. losses due to defaults by others, including issuers of investment securities or reinsurance and derivative instrument counterparties, could adversely affect the value of our investments or reduce our profitability. issuers and borrowers whose securities or loans we hold, customers, trading counterparties, counterparties under swaps and other derivative contracts, reinsurers, clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses and other financial intermediaries and guarantors may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, insolvency, lack of liquidity, adverse economic conditions, operational failure, fraud or other reasons. such defaults could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. intense competition could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our market share or profitability. in each of our businesses we face intense competition from domestic and foreign insurance companies, asset managers and diversified financial institutions, both for the ultimate customers for our products and, in many businesses, for distribution through non-affiliated distribution channels. we compete based on a number of 37 table of contents factors including brand recognition, reputation, quality of service, quality of investment advice, investment performance of our products, product features, scope of distribution and distribution arrangements, price, perceived financial strength and claims-paying and credit ratings. a decline in our competitive position as to one or more of these factors could adversely affect our profitability and assets under management. many of our competitors are large and well capitalized and some have greater market share or breadth of distribution, offer a broader range of products, services or features, assume a greater level of risk, have lower profitability expectations or have higher claims-paying or credit ratings than we do. the proliferation and growth of non-affiliated distribution channels puts pressure on our captive sales channels to either increase their productivity or reduce their costs in order to remain competitive, and we run the risk that the marketplace will make a more significant or rapid shift to non-affiliated or direct distribution alternatives than we anticipate or are able to achieve ourselves, potentially adversely affecting our market share and results of operations. competition for personnel in all of our businesses is intense, including for prudential agents, life planners and life advisors, other face-to-face sales personnel, desirable non-affiliated distribution channels and our investment managers. the loss of personnel could have an adverse effect on our business and profitability. changes in u.s. federal income tax law or in the income tax laws of other jurisdictions in which we operate could make some of our products less attractive to consumers and increase our tax costs. current u.s. federal income tax laws generally permit holders to defer taxation on the build-up of value of annuities and life insurance products until payments are actually made to the policyholder or other beneficiary and to exclude from taxation the build-up of value which is paid as a death benefit under a life insurance contract. congress from time to time considers legislation that could make our products less attractive to consumers, including legislation that would reduce or eliminate the benefit of this deferral on some annuities and insurance products, as well as other types of changes that could reduce or eliminate the attractiveness of annuities and life insurance products to consumers, such as repeal of the estate tax. for example, the economic growth and tax relief reconciliation act of 2001 and the jobs and growth tax relief reconciliation act of 2003 generally provide for lower income tax, capital gains and dividend tax rates that might have the effect of reducing the benefits of tax deferral on the build-up of value of annuities and life insurance products. the bush administration continues to propose that many of the rate reductions pursuant to these acts be made permanent as well as to propose several tax-favored savings initiatives. these proposals or other tax law changes might hinder our sales and result in the increased surrender of insurance and annuity products. congress, as well as foreign, state and local governments, also considers from time to time legislation that could increase our tax costs. if such legislation is adopted, our consolidated net income could decline. we have substantial international operations and our international operations face political, legal, operational and other risks that could adversely affect those operations or our profitability. a substantial portion of our revenues and income from continuing operations is derived from our operations in foreign countries, primarily japan and korea. these operations are subject to restrictions on transferring funds out of the countries in which these operations are located. some of our foreign insurance and investment management operations are, and are likely to continue to be, in emerging markets where this risk as well as risks of discriminatory regulation, labor issues in connection with workers associations and trade unions, price controls, exchange controls, nationalization or expropriation of assets, are heightened. if our business model is not successful in a particular country, we may lose all or most of our investment in building and training our sales force in that country. many of our insurance products sold in international markets provide for the buildup of cash values for the policyholder at contractually fixed guaranteed interest rates, including in japan. actual returns on the underlying investments do not necessarily match the guaranteed interest rates and there may be times when the spread between the actual investment returns and these guaranteed rates of return to the policyholder is negative and in which this negative spread may not be offset by the mortality, morbidity and expense charges we earn on the products. 38 table of contents fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect our profitability. we are exposed to foreign currency exchange risks in our general account investment portfolios, other proprietary investment portfolios and through our operations in foreign countries. currency fluctuations may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. for a discussion of our currency exposures and related hedging activities, see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. our businesses are heavily regulated and changes in regulation may reduce our profitability. our businesses are subject to comprehensive regulation and supervision. the purpose of this regulation is primarily to protect our customers and not our shareholders. many of the laws and regulations to which we are subject are regularly re-examined, and existing or future laws and regulations may become more restrictive or otherwise adversely affect our operations. prudential financial is subject to the rules and regulations of the sec and the nyse relating to public reporting and disclosure, securities trading, accounting and financial reporting, and corporate governance matters. the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and rules and regulations adopted in furtherance of that act have substantially increased the requirements in these and other areas for public companies such as prudential financial. many insurance regulatory and other governmental or self-regulatory bodies have the authority to review our products and business practices and those of our agents and employees and to bring regulatory or other legal actions against us if, in their view, our practices, or those of our agents or employees, are improper. these actions can result in substantial fines, penalties or prohibitions or restrictions on our business activities and could adversely affect our business, reputation, results of operations or financial condition. for a discussion of material pending litigation and regulatory matters, see legal proceedings. congress from time to time considers pension reform legislation that could decrease the attractiveness of certain of our retirement products and services to retirement plan sponsors and administrators, or have an unfavorable effect on our ability to earn revenues from these products and services. in this regard, the pension protection act of 2006 ( ppa ) makes significant changes in employer pension funding obligations associated with defined benefit pension plans which are likely to increase sponsors costs of maintaining these plans. these changes could hinder our sales of defined benefit pension products and services and cause sponsors to discontinue existing plans for which we provide asset management, administrative, or other services, but could increase the attractiveness of certain group annuity products we offer in connection with terminating pension plans. the bush administration also has proposed several tax-favored savings initiatives. these initiatives could hinder sales and persistency of our products and services that support employment based retirement plans. the naic has adopted a model regulation entitled valuation of life insurance policies, commonly known as regulation xxx, and a supporting guideline entitled the application of the valuation of life insurance policies, commonly known as guideline axxx. the regulation and supporting guideline require insurers to establish statutory reserves for term and universal life insurance policies with long-term premium guarantees that are consistent with the statutory reserves required for other individual life insurance policies with similar guarantees. many market participants believe that this level of reserves is excessive, and we have implemented reinsurance and capital management actions to mitigate the impact of regulation xxx and guideline axxx on our term and universal life insurance business. however, we may not be able to implement actions to mitigate the impact of regulation xxx or guideline axxx on future sales of term or universal life insurance products, thereby potentially requiring us to incur higher operating costs than we currently anticipate, reduce our sales of these products or implement measures that may be disruptive to our business. insurance regulators, as well as industry participants, have also begun to consider potentially significant changes in the way in which statutory reserves and statutory capital are determined, particularly for products with embedded options and guarantees. new regulatory capital requirements have already gone into effect for variable annuity products. the timing of, and extent of, such changes to the statutory reporting framework are uncertain; however, the result could be increases to statutory reserves and capital, and an adverse effect on our products, sales and operating costs. 39 table of contents legal and regulatory actions are inherent in our businesses and could adversely affect our results of operations or harm our businesses or reputation. we are, and in the future may be, subject to legal and regulatory actions in the ordinary course of our businesses, including in businesses that we have divested or placed in wind-down status. some of these proceedings have been brought on behalf of various alleged classes of complainants. in certain of these matters, the plaintiffs are seeking large and/or indeterminate amounts, including punitive or exemplary damages. substantial legal liability in these or future legal or regulatory actions could have an adverse affect on us or cause us reputational harm, which in turn could harm our business prospects. material pending litigation and regulatory matters affecting us, and certain risks to our businesses presented by such matters, are discussed under legal proceedings. our litigation and regulatory matters are subject to many uncertainties, and given their complexity and scope, their outcome cannot be predicted. our reserves for litigation and regulatory matters may prove to be inadequate. it is possible that our results of operations or cash flow in a particular quarterly or annual period could be materially affected by an ultimate unfavorable resolution of pending litigation and regulatory matters depending, in part, upon the results of operations or cash flow for such period. the occurrence of natural or man-made disasters could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. the occurrence of natural disasters, including hurricanes, floods, earthquakes, tornadoes, fires, explosions, pandemic disease and man-made disasters, including acts of terrorism and military actions, could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition, including in the following respects: catastrophic loss of life due to natural or man-made disasters could cause us to pay benefits at higher levels and/or materially earlier than anticipated and could lead to unexpected changes in persistency rates. a natural or man-made disaster could result in losses in our investment portfolio or the failure of our counterparties to perform, or cause significant volatility in global financial markets. a terrorist attack affecting financial institutions in the united states or elsewhere could negatively impact the financial services industry in general and our business operations, investment portfolio and profitability in particular. as previously reported, in august 2004, the u.s. department of homeland security identified our newark, new jersey facilities, along with those of several other financial institutions in new york and washington, d.c., as possible targets of a terrorist attack. pandemic disease, caused by a virus such as h5n1 (the avian flu virus), could have a severe adverse effect on prudential financial business. the potential impact of such a pandemic on prudential financial results of operations, liquidity and financial position is highly speculative, and would depend on numerous factors, including: the probability of the virus mutating to a form that can be passed from human to human; the rate of contagion if and when that occurs; the regions of the world most affected; the effectiveness of treatment for the infected population; the rates of mortality and morbidity among various segments of the insured versus the uninsured population; the collectibility of reinsurance; the possible macroeconomic effects of a pandemic on the company asset portfolio; the effect on lapses and surrenders of existing policies, as well as sales of new policies; and many other variables. there can be no assurance that our business continuation plans and insurance coverages would be effective in mitigating any negative effects on our operations or profitability in the event of a terrorist attack or other disaster. our risk management policies and procedures and minority investments in joint ventures may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk, which could adversely affect our businesses or result in losses. our policies and procedures to monitor and manage risks, including hedging programs that utilize derivative financial instruments, may not be fully effective and may leave us exposed to unidentified and unanticipated risks. management of operational, legal and regulatory risks requires, among other things, policies and procedures to record properly and verify a large number of transactions and events, and these policies and procedures may not be fully effective. past or future employee misconduct could result in violations of law by us, 40 table of contents regulatory sanctions and/or serious reputational or financial harm and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. a failure of our computer systems or a compromise of their security could also subject us to regulatory sanctions or other claims, harm our reputation, interrupt our operations and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. in our investments in which we hold a minority interest, including wachovia securities financial holdings, llc, we lack management and operational control over its operations, which may prevent us from taking or causing to be taken actions to protect or increase the value of those investments. we face risks arising from acquisitions, divestitures and restructurings, including client losses, surrenders and withdrawals, difficulties in integrating and realizing the projected results of acquisitions and contingent liabilities with respect to dispositions. we face a number of risks arising from acquisition transactions, including the risk that, following the acquisition or reorganization of a business, we could experience client losses, surrenders or withdrawals materially different from those we anticipate, as well as difficulties in integrating and realizing the projected results of acquisitions and restructurings and managing the litigation and regulatory matters to which acquired entities are party. we have retained insurance or reinsurance obligations and other contingent liabilities in connection with our divestiture or winding down of various businesses, including with respect to the retail securities brokerage and securities clearing operations that we contributed to the joint venture with wachovia corporation, and our reserves for these obligations and liabilities may prove to be inadequate. these risks may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. changes in our discount rate, expected rate of return and expected compensation increase assumptions for our pension and other postretirement benefit plans may result in increased expenses and reduce our profitability. we determine our pension and other postretirement benefit plan costs based on assumed discount rates, expected rates of return on plan assets and expected increases in compensation levels and trends in health care costs. changes in these assumptions may result in increased expenses and reduce our profitability. our ability to pay shareholder dividends, to continue share repurchases and to meet obligations may be adversely affected by limitations imposed on inter-affiliate distributions and transfers by prudential insurance and our other subsidiaries. prudential financial is the holding company for all our operations, and dividends, returns of capital and interest income from its subsidiaries are the principal source of funds available to prudential financial to pay shareholder dividends, to make share repurchases and to meet its other obligations. these sources of funds are complemented by prudential financial access to the capital markets and bank facilities. as described under business regulation and management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources, our domestic and foreign insurance and various other subsidiary companies, including prudential insurance, are subject to regulatory limitations on the payment of dividends and on other transfers of funds to prudential financial. in addition to these regulatory limitations, the terms of the ihc debt contain restrictions potentially limiting dividends by prudential insurance applicable to the financial services businesses in the event the closed block business is in financial distress and under other circumstances. these restrictions on prudential financial subsidiaries may limit such subsidiaries from making dividend payments to prudential financial in an amount sufficient to fund prudential financial cash requirements and shareholder dividends. from time to time, the national association of insurance commissioners, or naic, and various state and foreign insurance regulators have considered, and may in the future consider, proposals to further limit dividend payments that an insurance company may make without regulatory approval. regulatory requirements, provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and our shareholder rights plan could delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that shareholders might consider in their best interests. various states in which our insurance companies are domiciled, including new jersey, must approve any direct or indirect change of control of insurance companies organized in those states. under most states statutes, 41 table of contents an entity is presumed to have control of an insurance company if it owns, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of the voting stock of that insurance company or its parent company. federal, and in some cases, state, banking authorities would also have to approve the indirect change of control of our banking operations. the federal securities laws could also require reapproval by customers of our investment advisory contracts to manage mutual funds, including mutual funds included in annuity products, upon a change in control. in addition, the new jersey business corporation act prohibits certain business combinations with interested shareholders. these regulatory and other restrictions may delay a potential merger or sale of prudential financial, even if the board of directors decides that it is in the best interests of shareholders to merge or be sold. prudential financial certificate of incorporation and by-laws also contain provisions that may delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that shareholders might consider in their best interests. these provisions may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock and include: classification of prudential financial board of directors into three classes (pending completion in 2007 of the phased elimination of the classification of the board); a prohibition on the removal of the remaining classified directors without cause; a restriction on the filling of vacancies on the board of directors by shareholders; restrictions on the calling of special meetings by shareholders; a requirement that shareholders may take action without a meeting only by unanimous written consent; advance notice procedures for the nomination of candidates to the board of directors and shareholder proposals to be considered at shareholder meetings; and supermajority voting requirements for the amendment of certain provisions of the certificate of incorporation and by-laws. prudential financial shareholders rights plan also creates obstacles that may delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that shareholders might consider in their best interests. holders of our common stock are subject to risks due to the issuance of our class b stock, a second class of common stock. the businesses of prudential financial are separated into the financial services businesses and the closed block business, and our common stock reflects the performance of the financial services businesses and the class b stock reflects the performance of the closed block business. there are a number of risks to holders of our common stock by virtue of this dual common stock structure, including: even though we allocate all our consolidated assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses and cash flow between the financial services businesses and the closed block business for financial statement purposes, there is no legal separation between the financial services businesses and the closed block business. holders of common stock have no interest in a separate legal entity representing the financial services businesses; holders of the class b stock have no interest in a separate legal entity representing the closed block business; and therefore holders of each class of common stock are subject to all of the risks associated with an investment in the company. the financial results of the closed block business, including debt service on the ihc debt, will affect prudential financial consolidated results of operations, financial position and borrowing costs. the market value of our common stock may not reflect solely the performance of the financial services businesses. we cannot pay cash dividends on our common stock for any period if we choose not to pay dividends on the class b stock in an aggregate amount at least equal to the lesser of the cb distributable cash flow or the target dividend amount on the class b stock for that period. see market for registrant common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities convertibility for the definition of these terms. any net losses of the closed block business, and any dividends or distributions on, or repurchases of the class b stock, would reduce the assets of prudential financial legally available for dividends on the common stock. net income for the financial services businesses and the closed block business includes general and administrative expenses charged to each of the respective businesses based on the company methodology for the allocation of such expenses. cash flows to the financial services businesses from the closed block business related to administrative expenses are determined by a policy servicing fee arrangement that is based upon insurance and policies in force and statutory cash premiums. the difference between the administrative expenses allocated to the closed block business and these cash flow amounts are recorded, on an after tax basis, as direct equity adjustments to the equity balances of the businesses and included in the determination of earnings per share for each business. a change in cash 42 table of contents flow amounts between the businesses that is inconsistent with changes in general and administrative expenses we incur will affect the earnings per share of the common stock and class b stock. holders of common stock and class b stock vote together as a single class of common stock under new jersey law, except as otherwise required by law and except that the holders of the class b stock have class voting or consent rights with respect to specified matters directly affecting the class b stock. shares of class b stock are entitled to a higher proportionate amount upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of prudential financial, than shares of common stock. we may exchange the class b stock for shares of common stock at any time, and the class b stock is mandatorily exchangeable in the event of a sale of all or substantially all of the closed block business or a change of control of prudential financial. under these circumstances, shares of class b stock would be exchanged for shares of common stock with an aggregate average market value equal to 120% of the then appraised fair market value of the class b stock. for a description of change of control and fair market value , see market for registrant common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities convertibility. holders of class b stock may in their discretion, beginning in 2016, and at any time in the event of specified regulatory events, convert their shares of class b stock into shares of common stock with an aggregate average market value equal to 100% of the then appraised fair market value of the class b stock. any exchange or conversion could occur at a time when either or both of the common stock and class b stock may be considered overvalued or undervalued. accordingly, any such exchange or conversion may be disadvantageous to holders of common stock. our board of directors has adopted certain policies regarding inter-business transfers and accounting and tax matters, including the allocation of earnings, with respect to the financial services businesses and closed block business. although the board of directors may change any of these policies, any such decision is subject to the board of directors general fiduciary duties, and we have agreed with investors in the class b stock and the insurer of the ihc debt that, in most cases, the board of directors may not change these policies without their consent. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 146 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management, market risk and derivative instruments risk management includes the identification and measurement of various forms of risk, the establishment of risk thresholds and the creation of processes intended to maintain risks within these thresholds while optimizing returns on the underlying assets or liabilities. we consider risk management an integral part of managing our core businesses. market risk is the risk of change in the value of financial instruments as a result of absolute or relative changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates or equity or commodity prices. to varying degrees, the investment and trading activities supporting all of our products and services generate exposure to market risk. the market risk incurred and our strategies for managing this risk varies by product. with respect to non-variable life insurance products, fixed rate annuities, the fixed rate options in our variable life insurance and annuity products, and other finance businesses, we incur market risk primarily in the form of interest rate risk. we manage this risk through asset/liability management strategies that seek to match the interest rate sensitivity of the assets to that of the underlying liabilities. our overall objective in these strategies is to limit the net change in value of assets and liabilities arising from interest rate movements. while it is more difficult to measure the interest sensitivity of our insurance liabilities than that of the related assets, to the extent that we can measure such sensitivities we believe that interest rate movements will generate asset value changes that substantially offset changes in the value of the liabilities relating to the underlying products. for variable annuities and variable life insurance products, excluding the fixed rate options in these products, mutual funds and most separate accounts, our main exposure to the market is the risk that asset based fees decrease as a result of declines in assets under management due to changes in prices of securities. we also run the risk that asset management fees calculated by reference to performance could be lower. for variable annuity and variable life insurance products with minimum guaranteed death benefits and variable annuity products with living benefits such as guaranteed minimum income, withdrawal, and accumulation benefits, we also face the risk that declines in the value of underlying investments as a result of changes in prices of securities may increase our net exposure to such benefits under these contracts. as part of our risk management strategy, we hedge the living benefit features of our variable annuity contracts, with the exception of guaranteed minimum income benefits, using interest rate and equity based derivatives. see note 19 to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of our use of interest rate and equity based derivatives. see note 9 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information about the guaranteed minimum death benefits associated with our variable life and variable annuity contracts, and the guaranteed minimum income, withdrawal, and accumulation benefits associated with the variable annuity contracts we issue. for a discussion of asset based fees associated with our variable life products and our variable annuity contracts as well as the impact of our guaranteed minimum death and other benefits on the results of our individual life and individual annuities segments; see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations results of operations for financial services businesses by segment insurance division individual life and management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations results of operations for financial services businesses by segment insurance division individual annuities. we manage our exposure to equity price risk relating to our general account investments primarily by seeking to match the risk profile of equity investments against risk-adjusted equity market benchmarks. we measure benchmark risk levels in terms of price volatility in relation to the market in general. the sources of our exposure to market risk can be divided into two categories, other than trading activities conducted primarily in our insurance and annuity operations, and trading activities conducted primarily in our equity and derivatives trading operations. as part of our management of both other than trading and trading market risks, we use a variety of risk management tools and techniques. these include sensitivity and value-at-risk, or var, measures, position and other limits based on type of risk, and various hedging methods. other than trading activities we hold the majority of our assets for other than trading activities in our segments that offer insurance and annuities products. we incorporate asset/liability management techniques and other risk management policies and limits into the process of investing our assets. we use derivatives for hedging purposes in the asset/liability management process. 146 table of contents insurance and annuities products asset/liability management we seek to maintain interest rate and equity exposures within established ranges, which we periodically adjust based on market conditions and the design of related products sold to customers. our risk managers establish investment risk limits for exposures to any issuer, geographic region, type of security or industry sector and oversee efforts to manage risk within policy constraints set by management and approved by the investment committee of the board of directors. we use duration and convexity analyses to measure price sensitivity to interest rate changes. duration measures the relative sensitivity of the fair value of a financial instrument to changes in interest rates. convexity measures the rate of change of duration with respect to changes in interest rates. we seek to manage our interest rate exposure by legal entity by matching the relative sensitivity of asset and liability values to interest rate changes, or controlling duration mismatch of assets and liabilities. we have target duration mismatch constraints for each entity. as of december 31, 2006 and 2005, the difference between the pre-tax duration of assets and the target duration of liabilities in our duration managed portfolios was within our constraint limits. we consider risk-based capital implications in our asset/liability management strategies. we also perform portfolio stress testing as part of our u.s. regulatory cash flow testing for major product lines that are subject to risk from changes in interest rates. in this testing, we evaluate the impact of altering our interest-sensitive assumptions under various moderately adverse interest rate environments. these interest-sensitive assumptions relate to the timing and amount of redemptions and prepayments of fixed-income securities and lapses and surrenders of insurance products and the potential impact of any guaranteed minimum interest rates. we evaluate any shortfalls that this cash flow testing reveals to determine if we need to increase statutory reserves or adjust portfolio management strategies. market risk related to interest rates our other than trading assets that subject us to interest rate risk include primarily fixed maturity securities, commercial loans and policy loans. in the aggregate, the carrying value of these assets represented 77% of our consolidated assets, other than assets that we held in separate accounts, as of december 31, 2006 and 78% as of december 31, 2005. with respect to other than trading liabilities, we are exposed to interest rate risk through policyholder account balances relating to interest-sensitive life insurance, annuity and other investment-type contracts, collectively referred to as investment contracts, and through outstanding short-term and long-term debt. 147 table of contents we assess interest rate sensitivity for other than trading financial assets, financial liabilities and derivatives using hypothetical test scenarios that assume either upward or downward 100 basis point parallel shifts in the yield curve from prevailing interest rates. the following tables set forth the net estimated potential loss in fair value from a hypothetical 100 basis point upward shift as of december 31, 2006 and 2005, because this scenario results in the greatest net exposure to interest rate risk of the hypothetical scenarios tested at those dates. while the test scenario is for illustrative purposes only and does not reflect our expectations regarding future interest rates or the performance of fixed-income markets, it is a near-term, reasonably possible hypothetical change that illustrates the potential impact of such events. these test scenarios do not measure the changes in value that could result from non-parallel shifts in the yield curve, which we would expect to produce different changes in discount rates for different maturities. as a result, the actual loss in fair value from a 100 basis point change in interest rates could be different from that indicated by these calculations. as of december 31, 2006 notional amount of derivatives fair value hypothetical fair value after + 100 basis point parallel yield curve shift hypothetical change in fair value (in millions) financial assets with interest rate risk: fixed maturities $ 179,163 $ 168,952 $ (10,211 ) commercial loans 25,225 24,144 (1,081 ) mortgage broker-loan inventory 918 916 (2 ) policy loans 9,837 9,205 (632 ) derivatives: swaps $ 41,582 (342 ) (595 ) (253 ) futures 3,392 1 20 19 options 358 18 8 (10 ) forwards 9,646 122 19 (103 ) financial liabilities with interest rate risk: short-term and long-term debt (24,276 ) (23,450 ) 826 investment contracts (68,372 ) (67,112 ) 1,260 bank customer liabilities (903 ) (903 ) net estimated potential loss $ (10,187 ) as of december 31, 2005 notional amount of derivatives fair value hypothetical fair value after + 100 basis point parallel yield curve shift hypothetical change in fair value (in millions) financial assets with interest rate risk: fixed maturities $ 170,114 $ 159,957 $ (10,157 ) commercial loans 23,952 22,931 (1,021 ) mortgage broker-loan inventory 1,143 1,139 (4 ) policy loans 9,440 8,832 (608 ) derivatives: swaps $ 29,330 (534 ) (598 ) (64 ) futures 2,219 1 65 64 options 337 20 10 (10 ) forwards 9,103 (70 ) (128 ) (58 ) financial liabilities with interest rate risk: short-term and long-term debt (19,845 ) (19,223 ) 622 investment contracts (64,529 ) (63,269 ) 1,260 bank customer liabilities (503 ) (503 ) net estimated potential loss $ (9,976 ) the tables above do not include approximately $119 billion of insurance reserve and deposit liabilities as of december 31, 2006 and $113 billion as of december 31, 2005. we believe that the interest rate sensitivities of these insurance liabilities offset, in large measure, the interest rate risk of the financial assets set forth in these tables. 148 table of contents our net estimated potential loss as of december 31, 2006 increased $211 million from december 31, 2005. the estimated changes in fair values of our financial assets shown above relate primarily to assets invested to support our insurance liabilities, but do not include assets associated with products for which investment risk is borne primarily by the contractholders rather than by us. market risk related to equity prices we actively manage investment equity price risk against benchmarks in respective markets. we benchmark our return on equity holdings against a blend of market indices, mainly the s&amp;p 500 and russell 2000, and we target price sensitivities that approximate those of the benchmark indices. we estimate our equity price risk from a hypothetical 10% decline in equity benchmark market levels and measure this risk in terms of the decline in fair market value of equity securities we hold. using this methodology, our estimated equity price risk as of december 31, 2006 was $916 million, representing a hypothetical decline in fair market value of equity securities we held at that date from $9.160 billion to $8.244 billion. our estimated equity price risk using this methodology as of december 31, 2005 was $808 million, representing a hypothetical decline in fair market value of equity securities we held at that date from $8.084 billion to $7.276 billion. in calculating these amounts, we exclude equity securities related to products for which the investment risk is borne primarily by the contractholder rather than by us. while these scenarios are for illustrative purposes only and do not reflect our expectations regarding future performance of equity markets or of our equity portfolio, they represent near term reasonably possible hypothetical changes that illustrate the potential impact of such events. market risk related to foreign currency exchange rates we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk in our domestic general account investment portfolios, other proprietary investment portfolios and through our operations in foreign countries. our exposure to foreign currency risk within the domestic general account investment portfolios supporting our u.s. insurance operations and other domestic proprietary investment portfolios arises primarily from investments that are denominated in foreign currencies. we generally hedge substantially all domestic general account foreign currency-denominated fixed-income investments and other domestic proprietary foreign currency investments into u.s. dollars in order to mitigate the risk that the cash flows or fair value of these investments fluctuates as a result of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. we generally do not hedge all of the foreign currency risk of our investments in equity securities of unaffiliated foreign entities. our operations in foreign countries create the following three additional sources of foreign currency risk: first, we reflect the operating results of our foreign operations in our financial statements based on the average exchange rates prevailing during the period. we hedge some of these foreign currency operating results as part of our overall risk management strategy. we generally hedge our anticipated exposure to adjusted operating income fluctuations resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates relating to our international operations primarily in japan, korea, taiwan and europe. second, we translate our equity investment in foreign operations into u.s. dollars using the foreign currency exchange rate at the financial statement period-end date. for our equity investments in our international operations, other than in japan and taiwan, we generally hedge a significant portion of this exposure, which we accomplish through the use of foreign currency forward contracts. for our equity investments in our japanese and taiwanese operations we generally hedge this exposure by holding u.s. dollar denominated securities in the investment portfolios of these operations. 149 table of contents third, our international insurance operations may hold investments denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of those operations on an unhedged basis in addition to the aforementioned equity hedges resulting from foreign subsidiaries investing in u.s. dollar denominated investments. most significantly, our japanese operations hold u.s. dollar denominated investments in their investment portfolios in excess of our equity investment in such operations. for a discussion of our japanese operations u.s. dollar denominated investment holdings, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations realized investment gains and general account investments general account investments portfolio composition. we manage our investment foreign currency exchange rate risks, described above, within specified limits. foreign currency exchange risks for our domestic general account investment portfolio and the unhedged portion of our equity investment in foreign subsidiaries are managed using var-based analysis. this statistical technique estimates, at a specified confidence level, the potential pre-tax loss in portfolio market value that could occur over an assumed time horizon due to adverse market movements. the estimated var as of december 31, 2006 for foreign currency exchange risks in our domestic general account portfolio and the unhedged portion of equity investment in foreign subsidiaries, measured at a 95% confidence level and using a one-month time horizon, was $34 million, representing a hypothetical decline in fair market value of these foreign currency assets from $1.468 billion to $1.434 billion. the estimated var as of december 31, 2005 for foreign currency exchange risks in our domestic general account portfolio and the unhedged portion of equity investment in foreign subsidiaries, measured at a 95% confidence level and using a one-month time horizon, was $20 million, representing a hypothetical decline in fair market value of these foreign currency assets from $967 million to $947 million. the average var for foreign currency exchange risks in our domestic general account portfolio and the unhedged portion of equity investment in foreign subsidiaries, measured monthly at a 95% confidence level over a one month time horizon, was $39 million during 2006 and $32 million during 2005. these calculations use historical price volatilities and correlation data at a 95% confidence level. we discuss limitations of var models below. the estimated var for instruments used to hedge our anticipated exposure to adjusted operating income fluctuations resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates relating to our international operations, measured at a 95% confidence level and using a one-month time horizon, was $71 million as of december 31, 2006 and $75 million as of december 31, 2005. derivatives derivatives are financial instruments whose values are derived from interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, financial indices, or the prices of securities or commodities. derivative financial instruments may be exchange-traded or contracted in the over-the-counter market and include swaps, futures, options and forward contracts. see note 19 to the consolidated financial statements for a description of our derivative activities as of december 31, 2006 and 2005. under insurance statutes, our insurance companies may use derivative financial instruments to hedge actual or anticipated changes in their assets or liabilities, to replicate cash market instruments or for certain income-generating activities. these statutes generally prohibit the use of derivatives for speculative purposes. we use derivative financial instruments primarily to seek to reduce market risk from changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, as well as equity prices, and to alter interest rate or foreign currency exposures arising from mismatches between assets and liabilities. in addition, we use derivative financial instruments to mitigate risk associated with some of our benefit features of our variable annuity contracts. trading activities we engage in trading activities primarily in connection with our equity and derivatives trading operations. we maintain trading positions in various equity, foreign exchange instruments and commodities, primarily to facilitate transactions for our clients. market risk affects the values of our trading positions through fluctuations in absolute or relative interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, securities and commodity prices. we seek to use short security positions and forwards, futures, options and other derivatives to limit exposure to interest rate and other market risks. we also trade derivative financial instruments that allow our clients to manage 150 table of contents exposure to interest rate, currency and other market risks. our derivative transactions involve both exchange-listed and over-the-counter contracts and are generally short-term in duration. we act both as a broker, buying and selling exchange-listed contracts for our customers, and as a dealer, by entering into futures and security transactions as a principal. as a broker, we assume counterparty and credit risks that we seek to mitigate by using margin or other credit enhancements and by establishing trading limits and credit lines. as a dealer, we are subject to market risk as well as counterparty and credit risk. we manage the market risk associated with trading activities through hedging activities and formal policies, risk and position limits, counterparty and credit limits, daily position monitoring, and other forms of risk management. value-at-risk var is one of the tools we use to monitor and manage our exposure to the market risk of our trading activities. we calculate a var that encompasses our trading activities using a 95% confidence level. the var method incorporates the risk factors to which the market value of our trading activities is exposed, which consist of interest rates, including credit spreads, foreign currency exchange rates, equity prices and commodity prices, estimates of volatilities from historical data, the sensitivity of our trading activities to changes in those market factors and the correlations of those factors. the total var for our trading activities, which considers our combined exposure to interest rate risk, equity price risk, foreign currency exchange rate risk, and commodities price risk, expressed in terms of adverse changes to fair value at a 95% confidence level over a one-day time horizon, was $1 million as of december 31, 2006 and $1 million as of december 31, 2005. the largest component of this total var as of december 31, 2006 and 2005 was related to commodities price risk. the total average daily var for our trading activities considering our exposure to interest rate risk, equity risk, foreign currency exchange rate risk, and commodities price risk, expressed in terms of adverse changes to fair value with a 95% confidence level over a one-day time horizon, was $1 million during 2006 and $1 million during 2005. the largest component of both periods total average daily var was related to commodities price risk. limitations of var models although var models are a recognized tool for risk management, they have inherent limitations, including reliance on historical data that may not be indicative of future market conditions or trading patterns. accordingly, var models should not be viewed as a predictor of future results. we may incur losses that could be materially in excess of the amounts indicated by the models on a particular trading day or over a period of time, and there have been instances when results have fallen outside the values generated by our var models. a var model does not estimate the greatest possible loss. the results of these models and analysis thereof are subject to the judgment of our risk management personnel. 151 table of contentsrisk factors 38 risk factors you should carefully consider the following risks. these risks could materially affect our business, results of operations or financial condition, cause the trading price of our common stock to decline materially or cause our actual results to differ materially from those expected or those expressed in any forward looking statements made by or on behalf of the company. these risks are not exclusive, and additional risks to which we are subject include, but are not limited to, the factors mentioned under forward-looking statements above and the risks of our businesses described elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k. 38 table of contents market fluctuations and general economic, market and political conditions may adversely affect our business and profitability. our insurance products and certain of our investment products, as well as our investment returns and our access to and cost of financing, are sensitive to fixed income, equity, real estate and other market fluctuations and general economic, market and political conditions and these fluctuations and changes could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and liquidity, including in the following respects: the profitability of many of our insurance products depends in part on the value of the separate accounts supporting these products, which may fluctuate substantially depending on the foregoing conditions. market conditions resulting in reductions in the value of assets we manage would have an adverse effect on the revenues and profitability of our asset management services, which depend on fees related primarily to the value of assets under management, and would decrease the value of our proprietary investments. a change in market conditions, including prolonged periods of high inflation, could cause a change in consumer sentiment adversely affecting sales and persistency of our long-term savings and protection products. similarly, changing economic conditions can influence customer behavior including but not limited to increasing claims in certain product lines. sales of our investment-based and asset management products and services may decline and lapses of variable life and annuity products and withdrawals of assets from other investment products may increase if a market downturn, increased market volatility or other market conditions result in customers becoming dissatisfied with their investments or products. a market decline could result in guaranteed minimum benefits contained in many of our variable annuity products being higher than current account values or our pricing assumptions would support, requiring us to materially increase reserves for such products. market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection we purchase. accordingly, we may be forced to incur additional expenses for reinsurance or may not be able to obtain sufficient reinsurance on acceptable terms which could adversely affect the profitability of future business or our willingness to write future business. certain of our businesses originate loans and acquire investments with the intent to resell or repackage such assets within a relatively short period of time. exit strategies for such assets can change due to market conditions or changes in investor preferences, resulting in lower profitability or realized losses. hedging instruments we hold to manage foreign exchange, product, and other risks might not perform as intended or expected resulting in higher realized losses and unforeseen cash needs. market conditions can also increase the cost of executing product related hedges and such costs may not be recovered in the pricing of the underlying products being hedged. we have significant investment and derivative portfolios and adverse capital market conditions, including but not limited to volatility, credit spread changes, and benchmark interest rate changes, will impact the liquidity and value of our investments and derivatives, potentially resulting in higher realized or unrealized losses. values of our investments and derivatives can also be impacted by reductions in price transparency and changes in investor confidence and preferences, potentially resulting in higher realized or unrealized losses. regardless of market conditions, certain investments we hold, including private bonds and commercial mortgages, are relatively illiquid. if we needed to sell these investments, we may have difficulty doing so in a timely manner at a price that we could otherwise realize. adverse capital market conditions could affect our ability to borrow funds, including issuing commercial paper, as well as impact our ability to refinance existing borrowings, ultimately impacting profitability and also our ability to support or grow our businesses. market conditions could also impact our ability to fund foreseen and unforeseen cash and collateral requirements, potentially inhibiting our ability to perform under our obligations, support business initiatives and increasing realized losses. 39 table of contents the latter half of 2007 was characterized by adverse market conditions generally affecting the value and liquidity of asset-backed securities supported by sub-prime mortgages and commercial mortgage backed securities, as well as other investments we hold. these market conditions also impacted the cost of refinancing debt, including commercial paper borrowings. these conditions have persisted into 2008 and it is uncertain how or when such conditions will change. interest rate fluctuations could adversely affect our businesses and profitability. our insurance products and certain of our investment products, and our investment returns, are sensitive to interest rate fluctuations, and changes in interest rates could adversely affect our investment returns and results of operations, including in the following respects: some of our products expose us to the risk that changes in interest rates will reduce the spread between the amounts that we are required to pay under the contracts and the rate of return we are able to earn on our general account investments supporting the contracts. when interest rates decline, we have to reinvest the cash income from our investments in lower yielding instruments. since many of our policies and contracts have guaranteed minimum interest or crediting rates or limit the resetting of interest rates, the spreads could decrease and potentially become negative. when interest rates rise, we may not be able to replace the assets in our general account with the higher yielding assets needed to fund the higher crediting rates necessary to keep these products and contracts competitive. changes in interest rates may reduce our spreads or result in potential losses in our investment activities in which we borrow funds and purchase investments to earn additional spread income on the borrowed funds. a decline in market interest rates could also reduce our returns from investment of equity. when interest rates rise, policy loans and surrenders and withdrawals of life insurance policies and annuity contracts may increase as policyholders seek to buy products with perceived higher returns, requiring us to sell investment assets potentially resulting in realized investment losses, or requiring us to accelerate the amortization of dac or voba (both defined below). a decline in interest rates accompanied by unexpected prepayments of certain investments could result in reduced investments and a decline in our profitability. an increase in interest rates accompanied by unexpected extensions of certain lower yielding investments could result in a decline in our profitability. changes in the relationship between long-term and short-term interest rates could adversely affect the profitability of some of our products. changes in interest rates could increase our costs of financing. if our reserves for future policyholder benefits and claims are inadequate, we may be required to increase our reserves, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we establish and carry reserves to pay future policyholder benefits and claims. our reserves do not represent an exact calculation of liability, but rather are actuarial or statistical estimates based on models that include many assumptions and projections which are inherently uncertain and involve the exercise of significant judgment, including as to the levels of and/or timing of receipt or payment of premiums, benefits, claims, expenses, interest credits, investment results, retirement, mortality, morbidity and persistency. we cannot determine with precision the ultimate amounts that we will pay for, or the timing of payment of, actual benefits, claims and expenses or whether the assets supporting our policy liabilities, together with future premiums, will be sufficient for payment of benefits and claims. if we conclude that our reserves, together with future premiums, are insufficient to cover future policy benefits and claims, we would be required to increase our reserves and incur income statement charges for the period in which we make the determination, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. our profitability may decline if mortality rates, morbidity rates or persistency rates differ significantly from our pricing expectations. we set prices for many of our insurance and annuity products based upon expected claims and payment patterns, using assumptions for mortality rates, or likelihood of death, and morbidity rates, or likelihood of 40 table of contents sickness, of our policyholders. in addition to the potential effect of natural or man-made disasters, significant changes in mortality or morbidity could emerge gradually over time, due to changes in the natural environment, the health habits of the insured population, treatment patterns for disease or disability, or other factors. pricing of our insurance and deferred annuity products are also based in part upon expected persistency of these products, which is the probability that a policy or contract will remain in force from one period to the next. results may also vary based on differences between actual and expected premium deposits and withdrawals for these products. the development of a secondary market for life insurance, including life settlements or viaticals and investor owned life insurance, could adversely affect the profitability of existing business and our pricing assumptions for new business. significant deviations in actual experience from our pricing assumptions could have an adverse effect on the profitability of our products. although some of our products permit us to increase premiums or adjust other charges and credits during the life of the policy or contract, the adjustments permitted under the terms of the policies or contracts may not be sufficient to maintain profitability. many of our products do not permit us to increase premiums or adjust other charges and credits or limit those adjustments during the life of the policy or contract. we may be required to accelerate the amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs, or dac, or valuation of business acquired, or voba, or recognize impairment in the value of our goodwill, which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. deferred policy acquisition costs, or dac, represent the costs that vary with and are related primarily to the acquisition of new and renewal insurance and annuity contracts, and we amortize these costs over the expected lives of the contracts. valuation of business acquired, or voba, represents the present value of future profits embedded in acquired insurance, annuity and investment-type contracts and is amortized over the expected effective lives of the acquired contracts. goodwill represents the excess of the amounts we paid to acquire subsidiaries and other businesses over the fair value of their net assets at the date of acquisition. management, on an ongoing basis, tests the dac and voba recorded on our balance sheet to determine if these amounts are recoverable under current assumptions. in addition, we regularly review the estimates and assumptions underlying dac and voba for those products for which we amortize dac and voba in proportion to gross profits or gross margins. management tests goodwill for impairment at least annually based upon estimates of the fair value of the reporting unit to which the goodwill relates. given changes in facts and circumstances, these tests and reviews could lead to reductions in goodwill, dac and/or voba that could have an adverse effect on the results of our operations and our financial condition. a downgrade or potential downgrade in our claims-paying or credit ratings could limit our ability to market products, increase the number or value of policies being surrendered, increase our borrowing costs and/or hurt our relationships with creditors or trading counterparties. claims-paying ratings, which are sometimes referred to as financial strength ratings, represent the opinions of rating agencies regarding the financial ability of an insurance company to meet its obligations under an insurance policy, and are important factors affecting public confidence in an insurer and its competitive position in marketing products, including prudential insurance and our other insurance company subsidiaries. credit ratings represent the opinions of rating agencies regarding an entity ability to repay its indebtedness, and prudential financial credit ratings are important to our ability to raise capital through the issuance of debt and to the cost of such financing. a downgrade in our claims-paying or credit ratings could limit our ability to market products, reduce our competitiveness, increase the number or value of policies being surrendered, increase our borrowing costs, cause additional collateral requirements under certain agreements, and/or hurt our relationships with creditors or trading counterparties. losses due to defaults by others, including issuers of investment securities or reinsurance, bond insurers and derivative instrument counterparties, or a downgrade in the ratings of bond insurers, could adversely affect the value of our investments or reduce our profitability. issuers and borrowers whose securities or loans we hold, customers, trading counterparties, counterparties under swaps and other derivative contracts, reinsurers, clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses and other financial intermediaries and guarantors, including bond insurers, may default on their obligations to us due to 41 table of contents bankruptcy, insolvency, lack of liquidity, adverse economic conditions, operational failure, fraud or other reasons. such defaults could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. a downgrade in the ratings of bond insurers could also result in declines in the value of our fixed maturity investments supported by guarantees from bond insurers. intense competition could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our market share or profitability. in each of our businesses we face intense competition from domestic and foreign insurance companies, asset managers and diversified financial institutions, both for the ultimate customers for our products and, in many businesses, for distribution through non-affiliated distribution channels. we compete based on a number of factors including brand recognition, reputation, quality of service, quality of investment advice, investment performance of our products, product features, scope of distribution and distribution arrangements, price, perceived financial strength and claims-paying and credit ratings. a decline in our competitive position as to one or more of these factors could adversely affect our profitability and assets under management. many of our competitors are large and well capitalized and some have greater market share or breadth of distribution, offer a broader range of products, services or features, assume a greater level of risk, have lower profitability expectations or have higher claims-paying or credit ratings than we do. we could be subject to claims by competitors that our products infringe their patents, which could adversely affect our sales, profitability and financial position. the proliferation and growth of non-affiliated distribution channels puts pressure on our captive sales channels to increase their productivity and reduce their costs in order to remain competitive, and we run the risk that the marketplace will make a more significant or rapid shift to non-affiliated or direct distribution alternatives than we anticipate or are able to achieve ourselves, potentially adversely affecting our market share and results of operations. competition for personnel in all of our businesses is intense, including for prudential agents, life planners and life advisors, other face-to-face sales personnel, desirable non-affiliated distribution channels and our investment managers. the loss of personnel could have an adverse effect on our business and profitability. changes in u.s. federal income tax law or in the income tax laws of other jurisdictions in which we operate could make some of our products less attractive to consumers and increase our tax costs. current u.s. federal income tax laws generally permit certain holders to defer taxation on the build-up of value of annuities and life insurance products until payments are actually made to the policyholder or other beneficiary and to exclude from taxation the death benefit paid under a life insurance contract. congress from time to time considers legislation that could make our products less attractive to consumers, including legislation that would reduce or eliminate the benefit of this deferral on some annuities and insurance products, as well as other types of changes that could reduce or eliminate the attractiveness of annuities and life insurance products to consumers, such as repeal of the estate tax. for example, the economic growth and tax relief reconciliation act of 2001 and the jobs and growth tax relief reconciliation act of 2003 generally provide for lower income tax, capital gains and dividend tax rates that might have the effect of reducing the benefits of tax deferral on the build-up of value of annuities and life insurance products. the bush administration continues to propose that many of the rate reductions pursuant to these acts be made permanent as well as to propose several tax-favored savings initiatives. these proposals or other tax law changes might hinder our sales and result in the increased surrender of insurance and annuity products. congress, as well as state and local governments, also considers from time to time legislation that could increase the amount of taxes that we pay. if such legislation is adopted our consolidated net income could decline. for example, the u.s. treasury department and the internal revenue service are addressing through new regulations the methodology to be followed in determining the dividends received deduction related to variable life insurance and annuity contracts. the dividends received deduction reduces the amount of dividend income subject to tax and is a significant component of the difference between our effective tax rate and the federal statutory tax rate of 35%. a change in the dividends received deduction, including the possible elimination of this deduction, could reduce our consolidated net income. 42 table of contents the products we sell have different tax characteristics, including taxable income and tax deductions. certain of our products are significantly dependent on these characteristics, which are taken into consideration when pricing products and are a component of our capital management strategies. accordingly, a change in tax law, or other factors impacting the availability of the tax characteristics generated by our products, could impact product pricing and returns. we have substantial international operations and our international operations face political, legal, operational and other risks that could adversely affect those operations or our profitability. a substantial portion of our revenues and income from continuing operations is derived from our operations in foreign countries, primarily japan and korea. these operations are subject to restrictions on transferring funds out of the countries in which these operations are located. some of our foreign insurance and investment management operations are, and are likely to continue to be, in emerging markets where this risk as well as risks of discriminatory regulation, labor issues in connection with workers associations and trade unions, price controls, currency exchange controls, nationalization or expropriation of assets, are heightened. if our business model is not successful in a particular country, we may lose all or most of our investment in building and training our sales force in that country. many of our insurance products sold in international markets provide for the buildup of cash values for the policyholder at contractually fixed guaranteed interest rates, including in japan. actual returns on the underlying investments do not necessarily match the guaranteed interest rates and there may be times when the spread between the actual investment returns and these guaranteed rates of return to the policyholder is negative and in which this negative spread may not be offset by the mortality, morbidity and expense charges we earn on the products. our international businesses are subject to the tax laws and regulations of the countries in which they are organized and in which they operate. foreign governments from time to time consider legislation that could increase the amount of taxes that we pay or impact the sales of our products. for example, in march 2007 the japanese national tax authority ( nta ) indicated that it would change the tax treatment of certain term life products sold to corporations, which resulted in a significant decrease in the sale of increasing term life insurance to corporations in japan. on december 26, 2007 the nta confirmed in an official announcement that it intends to revise the corporate tax deductibility of insurance premium paid with respect to certain increasing term insurance products. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect our profitability. we are exposed to foreign currency exchange risks in our general account investment portfolios, other proprietary investment portfolios and through our operations in foreign countries. currency fluctuations may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. for a discussion of our currency exposures and related hedging activities, see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. our businesses are heavily regulated and changes in regulation may reduce our profitability. our businesses are subject to comprehensive regulation and supervision. the purpose of this regulation is primarily to protect our customers and not necessarily our shareholders. many of the laws and regulations to which we are subject, including those to which our international businesses are subject, are regularly re-examined, and existing or future laws and regulations may become more restrictive or otherwise adversely affect our operations. prudential financial is subject to the rules and regulations of the sec and the nyse relating to public reporting and disclosure, securities trading, accounting and financial reporting, and corporate governance matters. the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and rules and regulations adopted in furtherance of that act have substantially increased the requirements in these and other areas for public companies such as prudential financial. 43 table of contents many insurance regulatory and other governmental or self-regulatory bodies have the authority to review our products and business practices and those of our agents and employees and to bring regulatory or other legal actions against us if, in their view, our practices, or those of our agents or employees, are improper. these actions can result in substantial fines, penalties or prohibitions or restrictions on our business activities and could adversely affect our business, reputation, results of operations or financial condition. for a discussion of material pending litigation and regulatory matters, see legal proceedings. congress from time to time considers pension reform legislation that could decrease the attractiveness of certain of our retirement products and services to retirement plan sponsors and administrators, or have an unfavorable effect on our ability to earn revenues from these products and services. in this regard, the pension protection act of 2006 ( ppa ) makes significant changes in employer pension funding obligations associated with defined benefit pension plans which are likely to increase sponsors costs of maintaining these plans. these changes could hinder our sales of defined benefit pension products and services and cause sponsors to discontinue existing plans for which we provide asset management, administrative, or other services, but could increase the attractiveness of certain group annuity products we offer in connection with terminating pension plans. the bush administration also has proposed several tax-favored savings initiatives. these initiatives could hinder sales and persistency of our products and services that support employment based retirement plans. the naic has adopted a model regulation entitled valuation of life insurance policies, commonly known as regulation xxx, and a supporting guideline entitled the application of the valuation of life insurance policies, commonly known as guideline axxx. the regulation and supporting guideline require insurers to establish statutory reserves for term and universal life insurance policies with long-term premium guarantees that are consistent with the statutory reserves required for other individual life insurance policies with similar guarantees. many market participants believe that this level of reserves is excessive, and we have implemented reinsurance and capital management actions to mitigate the impact of regulation xxx and guideline axxx on our term and universal life insurance business. however, we may not be able to implement actions to mitigate the impact of regulation xxx or guideline axxx on future sales of term or universal life insurance products, thereby potentially resulting in an adverse impact on returns on capital associated with these products, and possibly requiring us to reduce our sales of these products or implement measures that may be disruptive to our business. for certain of our products, market performance impacts the level of statutory reserves we are required to hold, which impacts capital requirements and may have an adverse effect on returns on capital associated with these products. insurance regulators, as well as industry participants, have also begun to consider potentially significant changes in the way in which statutory reserves and statutory capital are determined, particularly for products with embedded options and guarantees. new regulatory capital requirements have already gone into effect for variable annuity products. the timing of, and extent of, such changes to the statutory reporting framework are uncertain; however, the result could be increases to statutory reserves and capital, and an adverse effect on our products, sales and operating costs. see business regulation for further discussion of the impact of regulations on our businesses. legal and regulatory actions are inherent in our businesses and could adversely affect our results of operations or financial position or harm our businesses or reputation. we are, and in the future may be, subject to legal and regulatory actions in the ordinary course of our businesses, including in businesses that we have divested or placed in wind-down status. some of these proceedings have been brought on behalf of various alleged classes of complainants. in certain of these matters, the plaintiffs are seeking large and/or indeterminate amounts, including punitive or exemplary damages. substantial legal liability in these or future legal or regulatory actions could have an adverse affect on us or cause us reputational harm, which in turn could harm our business prospects. material pending litigation and regulatory matters affecting us, and certain risks to our businesses presented by such matters, are discussed under legal proceedings. our litigation and regulatory matters are subject to 44 table of contents many uncertainties, and given their complexity and scope, their outcome cannot be predicted. our reserves for litigation and regulatory matters may prove to be inadequate. it is possible that our results of operations or cash flow in a particular quarterly or annual period could be materially affected by an ultimate unfavorable resolution of pending litigation and regulatory matters depending, in part, upon the results of operations or cash flow for such period. in light of the unpredictability of the company litigation and regulatory matters, it is also possible that in certain cases an ultimate unfavorable resolution of one or more pending litigation or regulatory matters could have a material adverse effect on the company financial position. the occurrence of natural or man-made disasters could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. the occurrence of natural disasters, including hurricanes, floods, earthquakes, tornadoes, fires, explosions, pandemic disease and man-made disasters, including acts of terrorism and military actions, could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition, including in the following respects: catastrophic loss of life due to natural or man-made disasters could cause us to pay benefits at higher levels and/or materially earlier than anticipated and could lead to unexpected changes in persistency rates. a natural or man-made disaster could result in losses in our investment portfolio or the failure of our counterparties to perform, or cause significant volatility in global financial markets. a terrorist attack affecting financial institutions in the united states or elsewhere could negatively impact the financial services industry in general and our business operations, investment portfolio and profitability in particular. as previously reported, in august 2004, the u.s. department of homeland security identified our newark, new jersey facilities, along with those of several other financial institutions in new york and washington, d.c., as possible targets of a terrorist attack. pandemic disease, caused by a virus such as h5n1 (the avian flu virus), could have a severe adverse effect on prudential financial business. the potential impact of such a pandemic on prudential financial results of operations and financial position is highly speculative, and would depend on numerous factors, including: the probability of the virus mutating to a form that can be passed from human to human; the rate of contagion if and when that occurs; the regions of the world most affected; the effectiveness of treatment for the infected population; the rates of mortality and morbidity among various segments of the insured versus the uninsured population; the collectibility of reinsurance; the possible macroeconomic effects of a pandemic on the company asset portfolio; the effect on lapses and surrenders of existing policies, as well as sales of new policies; and many other variables. there can be no assurance that our business continuation plans and insurance coverages would be effective in mitigating any negative effects on our operations or profitability in the event of a terrorist attack or other disaster. our risk management policies and procedures and minority investments in joint ventures may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk, which could adversely affect our businesses or result in losses. our policies and procedures to monitor and manage risks, including hedging programs that utilize derivative financial instruments, may not be fully effective and may leave us exposed to unidentified and unanticipated risks. the company uses models in its hedging programs and many other aspects of its operations, including but not limited to the estimation of actuarial reserves, the amortization of deferred acquisition costs and the value of business acquired, and the valuation of certain other assets and liabilities. these models rely on assumptions and projections that are inherently uncertain. management of operational, legal and regulatory risks requires, among other things, policies and procedures to record properly and verify a large number of transactions and events, and these policies and procedures may not be fully effective. past or future misconduct by our employees or employees of our vendors could result in violations of law by us, regulatory sanctions and/or serious reputational or financial harm and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. a failure of our computer systems or a compromise of their security could also subject us to regulatory sanctions or other claims, harm our reputation, interrupt our operations and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. in our investments in which we hold a minority interest, including wachovia securities financial holdings, llc, we lack management and operational control over its operations, which may prevent us from taking or causing to be taken actions to protect or increase the value of those investments. 45 table of contents we face risks arising from acquisitions, divestitures and restructurings, including client losses, surrenders and withdrawals, difficulties in integrating and realizing the projected results of acquisitions and contingent liabilities with respect to dispositions. we face a number of risks arising from acquisition transactions, including the risk that, following the acquisition or reorganization of a business, we could experience client losses, surrenders or withdrawals materially different from those we anticipate, as well as difficulties in integrating and realizing the projected results of acquisitions and restructurings and managing the litigation and regulatory matters to which acquired entities are party. we have retained insurance or reinsurance obligations and other contingent liabilities in connection with our divestiture or winding down of various businesses, including with respect to the retail securities brokerage and securities clearing operations that we contributed to the joint venture with wachovia corporation, and our reserves for these obligations and liabilities may prove to be inadequate. these risks may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. changes in our discount rate, expected rate of return and expected compensation increase assumptions for our pension and other postretirement benefit plans may result in increased expenses and reduce our profitability. we determine our pension and other postretirement benefit plan costs based on assumed discount rates, expected rates of return on plan assets and expected increases in compensation levels and trends in health care costs. changes in these assumptions may result in increased expenses and reduce our profitability. our ability to pay shareholder dividends, to continue share repurchases and to meet obligations may be adversely affected by limitations imposed on inter-affiliate distributions and transfers by prudential insurance and our other subsidiaries. prudential financial is the holding company for all our operations, and dividends, returns of capital and interest income from its subsidiaries are the principal source of funds available to prudential financial to pay shareholder dividends, to make share repurchases and to meet its other obligations. these sources of funds are complemented by prudential financial access to the capital markets and bank facilities. as described under business regulation and management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources, our domestic and foreign insurance and various other subsidiary companies, including prudential insurance, are subject to regulatory limitations on the payment of dividends and on other transfers of funds to prudential financial. in addition to these regulatory limitations, the terms of the ihc debt contain restrictions potentially limiting dividends by prudential insurance applicable to the financial services businesses in the event the closed block business is in financial distress and under other circumstances. these restrictions on prudential financial subsidiaries may limit such subsidiaries from making dividend payments to prudential financial in an amount sufficient to fund prudential financial cash requirements and shareholder dividends. from time to time, the national association of insurance commissioners, or naic, and various state and foreign insurance regulators have considered, and may in the future consider, proposals to further limit dividend payments that an insurance company may make without regulatory approval. regulatory requirements, provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and our shareholder rights plan could delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that shareholders might consider in their best interests. various states in which our insurance companies are domiciled, including new jersey, must approve any direct or indirect change of control of insurance companies organized in those states. under most states statutes, an entity is presumed to have control of an insurance company if it owns, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of the voting stock of that insurance company or its parent company. federal, and in some cases, state, banking authorities would also have to approve the indirect change of control of our banking operations. the federal securities laws could also require reapproval by customers of our investment advisory contracts to manage mutual funds, including mutual funds included in annuity products, upon a change in control. in addition, the new jersey business corporation act prohibits certain business combinations with interested shareholders. 46 table of contents these regulatory and other restrictions may delay a potential merger or sale of prudential financial, even if the board of directors decides that it is in the best interests of shareholders to merge or be sold. prudential financial certificate of incorporation and by-laws also contain provisions that may delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that shareholders might consider in their best interests. these provisions may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock and include: a restriction on the filling of vacancies on the board of directors by shareholders; restrictions on the calling of special meetings by shareholders; a requirement that shareholders may take action without a meeting only by unanimous written consent; advance notice procedures for the nomination of candidates to the board of directors and shareholder proposals to be considered at shareholder meetings; and supermajority voting requirements for the amendment of certain provisions of the certificate of incorporation and by-laws. prudential financial's shareholders rights plan also creates obstacles that may delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that shareholders might consider in their best interests. holders of our common stock are subject to risks due to the issuance of our class b stock, a second class of common stock. the businesses of prudential financial are separated into the financial services businesses and the closed block business, and our common stock reflects the performance of the financial services businesses and the class b stock reflects the performance of the closed block business. there are a number of risks to holders of our common stock by virtue of this dual common stock structure, including: even though we allocate all our consolidated assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses and cash flow between the financial services businesses and the closed block business for financial statement purposes, there is no legal separation between the financial services businesses and the closed block business. holders of common stock have no interest in a separate legal entity representing the financial services businesses; holders of the class b stock have no interest in a separate legal entity representing the closed block business; and therefore holders of each class of common stock are subject to all of the risks associated with an investment in the company. the financial results of the closed block business, including debt service on the ihc debt, will affect prudential financial consolidated results of operations, financial position and borrowing costs. the market value of our common stock may not reflect solely the performance of the financial services businesses. we cannot pay cash dividends on our common stock for any period if we choose not to pay dividends on the class b stock in an aggregate amount at least equal to the lesser of the cb distributable cash flow or the target dividend amount on the class b stock for that period. see market for registrant common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities convertibility for the definition of these terms. any net losses of the closed block business, and any dividends or distributions on, or repurchases of the class b stock, would reduce the assets of prudential financial legally available for dividends on the common stock. net income for the financial services businesses and the closed block business includes general and administrative expenses charged to each of the respective businesses based on the company methodology for the allocation of such expenses. cash flows to the financial services businesses from the closed block business related to administrative expenses are determined by a policy servicing fee arrangement that is based upon insurance and policies in force and statutory cash premiums. the difference between the administrative expenses allocated to the closed block business and these cash flow amounts are recorded, on an after tax basis, as direct equity adjustments to the equity balances of the businesses and included in the determination of earnings per share for each business. a change in cash flow amounts between the businesses that is inconsistent with changes in general and administrative expenses we incur will affect the earnings per share of the common stock and class b stock. holders of common stock and class b stock vote together as a single class of common stock under new jersey law, except as otherwise required by law and except that the holders of the class b stock have class voting or consent rights with respect to specified matters directly affecting the class b stock. 47 table of contents shares of class b stock are entitled to a higher proportionate amount upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of prudential financial, than shares of common stock. we may exchange the class b stock for shares of common stock at any time, and the class b stock is mandatorily exchangeable in the event of a sale of all or substantially all of the closed block business or a change of control of prudential financial. under these circumstances, shares of class b stock would be exchanged for shares of common stock with an aggregate average market value equal to 120% of the then appraised fair market value of the class b stock. for a description of change of control and fair market value , see market for registrant common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities convertibility. holders of class b stock may at their discretion, beginning in 2016, and at any time in the event of specified regulatory events, convert their shares of class b stock into shares of common stock with an aggregate average market value equal to 100% of the then appraised fair market value of the class b stock. any exchange or conversion could occur at a time when either or both of the common stock and class b stock may be considered overvalued or undervalued. accordingly, any such exchange or conversion may be disadvantageous to holders of common stock. our board of directors has adopted certain policies regarding inter-business transfers and accounting and tax matters, including the allocation of earnings, with respect to the financial services businesses and closed block business. although the board of directors may change any of these policies, any such decision is subject to the board of directors general fiduciary duties, and we have agreed with investors in the class b stock and the insurer of the ihc debt that, in most cases, the board of directors may not change these policies without their consent. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 163 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management, market risk and derivative instruments risk management includes the identification and measurement of various forms of risk, the establishment of risk thresholds and the creation of processes intended to maintain risks within these thresholds while optimizing returns on the underlying assets or liabilities. we consider risk management an integral part of managing our core businesses. market risk is the risk of change in the value of financial instruments as a result of absolute or relative changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates or equity or commodity prices. to varying degrees, the investment and trading activities supporting all of our products and services generate exposure to market risk. the market risk incurred and our strategies for managing this risk varies by product. with respect to non-variable life insurance products, fixed rate annuities, the fixed rate options in our variable life insurance and annuity products, and other finance businesses, we incur market risk primarily in the form of interest rate risk. we manage this risk through asset/liability management strategies that seek to closely approximate the interest rate sensitivity, but not necessarily the exact cash flow characteristics, of the assets with the estimated interest rate sensitivity of the product liabilities. our overall objective in these strategies is to limit the net change in value of assets and liabilities arising from interest rate movements. while it is more difficult to measure the interest sensitivity of our insurance liabilities than that of the related assets, to the extent that we can measure such sensitivities we believe that interest rate movements will generate asset value changes that substantially offset changes in the value of the liabilities relating to the underlying products. for variable annuities and variable life insurance products, excluding the fixed rate options in these products, mutual funds and most separate accounts, our main exposure to the market is the risk that asset based fees decrease as a result of declines in assets under management due to changes in investment prices. we also run the risk that asset management fees calculated by reference to performance could be lower. the risk of decreased asset based and asset management fees could also impact our estimates of total gross profits used as a basis for amortizing deferred policy acquisition and other costs. while a decrease in our estimates of total gross profits would accelerate amortization and decrease net income in a given period, it would not affect our cash flow or liquidity position. for variable annuity and variable life insurance products with minimum guaranteed death benefits and variable annuity products with living benefits such as guaranteed minimum income, withdrawal, and accumulation benefits, we also face the risk that declines in the value of underlying investments as a result of changes in investment prices may increase our net exposure to such benefits under these contracts. as part of our risk management strategy, we utilize interest rate and equity based derivatives as well as an automatic rebalancing element to hedge the benefit features of our variable annuity contracts, with the exception of our guaranteed minimum income benefits and guaranteed minimum death benefits, which include risks we have deemed suitable to retain. see note 19 to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of our use of interest rate and equity based derivatives. see note 9 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information about the guaranteed minimum death benefits associated with our variable life and variable annuity contracts, and the guaranteed minimum income, withdrawal, and accumulation benefits associated with the variable annuity contracts we issue. for a discussion of asset based fees associated with our variable life products and our variable annuity contracts, our estimates of total gross profits used as a basis for amortizing deferred policy acquisition and other costs, and the impact of our guaranteed minimum death and other benefits on the results of our individual life and individual annuities segments, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations results of operations for financial services businesses by segment insurance division individual life and management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations results of operations for financial services businesses by segment insurance division individual annuities. 163 table of contents we manage our exposure to equity price risk relating to our general account investments primarily by seeking to match the risk profile of equity investments against risk-adjusted equity market benchmarks. we measure benchmark risk levels in terms of price volatility in relation to the market in general. the sources of our exposure to market risk can be divided into two categories, other than trading activities conducted primarily in our insurance and annuity operations, and trading activities conducted primarily in our derivatives trading operations. as part of our management of both other than trading and trading market risks, we use a variety of risk management tools and techniques. these include sensitivity and value-at-risk, or var, measures, position and other limits based on type of risk, and various hedging methods. other than trading activities we hold the majority of our assets for other than trading activities in our segments that offer insurance and annuities products. we incorporate asset/liability management techniques and other risk management policies and limits into the process of investing our assets. we use derivatives for hedging and other purposes in the asset/liability management process. insurance and annuities products asset/liability management we seek to maintain interest rate and equity exposures within established ranges, which we periodically adjust based on market conditions and the design of related products sold to customers. our risk managers establish investment risk limits for exposures to any issuer, geographic region, type of security or industry sector and oversee efforts to manage risk within policy constraints set by management and approved by the investment committee of the board of directors. we use duration and convexity analyses to measure price sensitivity to interest rate changes. duration measures the relative sensitivity of the fair value of a financial instrument to changes in interest rates. convexity measures the rate of change of duration with respect to changes in interest rates. we seek to manage our interest rate exposure by legal entity by matching the relative sensitivity of asset and liability values to interest rate changes, or controlling duration mismatch of assets and liabilities. we have target duration mismatch constraints for each entity. in certain markets, primarily outside the u.s., capital market limitations that hinder our ability to closely approximate the duration of some of our liabilities are considered in setting the constraint limits. as of december 31, 2007 and 2006, the difference between the pre-tax duration of assets and the target duration of liabilities in our duration managed portfolios was within our constraint limits. we consider risk-based capital implications in our asset/liability management strategies. we also perform portfolio stress testing as part of our u.s. regulatory cash flow testing for major product lines that are subject to risk from changes in interest rates. in this testing, we evaluate the impact of altering our interest-sensitive assumptions under various moderately adverse interest rate environments. these interest-sensitive assumptions relate to the timing and amount of redemptions and prepayments of fixed-income securities and lapses and surrenders of insurance products and the potential impact of any guaranteed minimum interest rates. we evaluate any shortfalls that this cash flow testing reveals to determine if we need to increase statutory reserves or adjust portfolio management strategies. market risk related to interest rates our other than trading assets that subject us to interest rate risk include primarily fixed maturity securities, commercial loans and policy loans. in the aggregate, the carrying value of these assets represented 76% of our consolidated assets, other than assets that we held in separate accounts, as of december 31, 2007 and 77% as of december 31, 2006. with respect to other than trading liabilities, we are exposed to interest rate risk through policyholder account balances relating to interest-sensitive life insurance, annuity and other investment-type contracts, collectively referred to as investment contracts, and through outstanding short-term and long-term debt. we assess interest rate sensitivity for other than trading financial assets, financial liabilities and derivatives using hypothetical test scenarios that assume either upward or downward 100 basis point parallel 164 table of contents shifts in the yield curve from prevailing interest rates. the following tables set forth the net estimated potential loss in fair value from a hypothetical 100 basis point upward shift as of december 31, 2007 and 2006, because this scenario results in the greatest net exposure to interest rate risk of the hypothetical scenarios tested at those dates. while the test scenario is for illustrative purposes only and does not reflect our expectations regarding future interest rates or the performance of fixed-income markets, it is a near-term, reasonably possible hypothetical change that illustrates the potential impact of such events. these test scenarios do not measure the changes in value that could result from non-parallel shifts in the yield curve, which we would expect to produce different changes in discount rates for different maturities. as a result, the actual loss in fair value from a 100 basis point change in interest rates could be different from that indicated by these calculations. as of december 31, 2007 notional amount of derivatives fair value hypothetical fair value after + 100 basis point parallel yield curve shift hypothetical change in fair value (in millions) financial assets with interest rate risk: fixed maturities $ 179,940 $ 169,374 $ (10,566 ) commercial loans 28,323 27,123 (1,200 ) mortgage bank-loan inventory(1) 2,298 2,248 (50 ) policy loans 10,751 10,055 (696 ) derivatives: swaps $ 59,266 (525 ) (944 ) (419 ) futures 4,812 (7 ) 19 26 options 4,759 627 557 (70 ) forwards 8,851 72 71 (1 ) variable annuity living benefit feature embedded derivatives (168 ) 17 185 financial liabilities with interest rate risk: short-term and long-term debt (29,737 ) (28,597 ) 1,140 investment contracts (66,574 ) (65,330 ) 1,244 bank customer liabilities (1,334 ) (1,329 ) 5 net estimated potential loss $ (10,402 ) as of december 31, 2006 notional amount of derivatives fair value hypothetical fair value after + 100 basis point parallel yield curve shift hypothetical change in fair value (in millions) financial assets with interest rate risk: fixed maturities $ 179,163 $ 168,952 $ (10,211 ) commercial loans 25,225 24,144 (1,081 ) mortgage bank-loan inventory(1) 918 900 (18 ) policy loans 9,837 9,205 (632 ) derivatives: swaps $ 41,582 (342 ) (561 ) (219 ) futures 3,392 1 20 19 options 3,131 250 218 (32 ) forwards 9,646 122 19 (103 ) variable annuity living benefit feature embedded derivatives 38 119 81 financial liabilities with interest rate risk: short-term and long-term debt (24,276 ) (23,450 ) 826 investment contracts (64,571 ) (63,310 ) 1,261 bank customer liabilities (903 ) (903 ) net estimated potential loss $ (10,109 ) (1) the hypothetical change in fair value related to our mortgage bank-loan inventory reflects only the gross fair value change on the mortgage loan assets, and excludes any offsetting impact of derivatives and other instruments purchased to hedge such changes in fair value. 165 table of contents the tables above do not include approximately $129 billion of insurance reserve and deposit liabilities as of december 31, 2007 and $123 billion as of december 31, 2006. we believe that the interest rate sensitivities of these insurance liabilities offset, in large measure, the interest rate risk of the financial assets set forth in these tables. our net estimated potential loss in fair value as of december 31, 2007 increased $293 million from december 31, 2006, primarily reflecting an increase in the level of investments in 2007. the estimated changes in fair values of our financial assets shown above relate primarily to assets invested to support our insurance liabilities, but do not include separate account assets associated with products for which investment risk is borne primarily by the separate account contractholders rather than by us. market risk related to equity prices we actively manage investment equity price risk against benchmarks in respective markets. we benchmark our return on equity holdings against a blend of market indices, mainly the s&amp;p 500 and russell 2000, and we target price sensitivities that approximate those of the benchmark indices. we estimate our investment equity price risk from a hypothetical 10% decline in equity benchmark market levels and measure this risk in terms of the decline in fair market value of equity securities we hold. using this methodology, our estimated investment equity price risk as of december 31, 2007 was $958 million, representing a hypothetical decline in fair market value of equity securities we held at that date from $9.580 billion to $8.622 billion. our estimated investment equity price risk using this methodology as of december 31, 2006 was $916 million, representing a hypothetical decline in fair market value of equity securities we held at that date from $9.160 billion to $8.244 billion. in calculating these amounts, we exclude separate account equity securities related to products for which the investment risk is borne primarily by the separate account contractholder rather than by us. in addition to equity securities, as indicated above, we hold equity-based derivatives primarily to hedge the equity price risk embedded in the living benefit features in some of our variable annuity products. as of december 31, 2007, our equity-based derivatives had notional values of $4.6 billion, and were reported at fair value as a $617 million asset, and the living benefit features accounted for as derivatives were reported at fair value as a $168 million liability. as of december 31, 2006, our equity-based derivatives had notional values of $2.9 billion, and were reported at fair value as a $230 million asset, and the living benefits features accounted for as derivatives were reported at fair value as a $38 million asset. our estimated equity price risk associated with the equity-based derivatives, net of the related living benefit features, was less than $10 million as of both december 31, 2007 and 2006, estimated based on a hypothetical 10% decline in equity benchmark market levels. while these scenarios are for illustrative purposes only and do not reflect our expectations regarding future performance of equity markets or of our equity portfolio, they represent near term reasonably possible hypothetical changes that illustrate the potential impact of such events. these scenarios consider only the direct impact on fair value of declines in equity benchmark market levels and not changes in asset based fees recognized as revenue, changes in our estimates of total gross profits used as a basis for amortizing deferred policy acquisition and other costs, or changes in any other assumptions such as mortality, utilization or persistency rates in our variable annuity contracts that could also impact the fair value of our living benefit features. market risk related to foreign currency exchange rates we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk in our domestic general account investment portfolios, other proprietary investment portfolios and through our operations in foreign countries. our exposure to foreign currency risk within the domestic general account investment portfolios supporting our u.s. insurance operations and other domestic proprietary investment portfolios arises primarily from investments that are denominated in foreign currencies. we generally hedge substantially all domestic general account foreign currency-denominated fixed-income investments and other domestic proprietary foreign currency investments into u.s. dollars in order to mitigate the risk that the cash flows or fair value of these investments fluctuates as a result of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. we generally do not hedge all of the foreign currency risk of our investments in equity securities of unaffiliated foreign entities. 166 table of contents our operations in foreign countries create the following three additional sources of foreign currency risk: first, we reflect the operating results of our foreign operations in our financial statements based on the average exchange rates prevailing during the period. we hedge some of these foreign currency operating results as part of our overall risk management strategy. we generally hedge our anticipated exposure to adjusted operating income fluctuations resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates relating to our international operations primarily in japan, korea, taiwan and europe. second, we translate our equity investment in foreign operations into u.s. dollars using the foreign currency exchange rate at the financial statement period-end date. to mitigate potential losses due to fluctuations in these exchange rates, for our equity investments in our international operations other than in japan and taiwan, we generally hedge a significant portion of this exposure through the use of foreign currency forward contracts. for our equity investments in our japanese and taiwanese operations we generally hedge this exposure by holding u.s. dollar denominated securities in the investment portfolios of these operations. third, our international insurance operations may hold investments denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of those operations on an unhedged basis in addition to the aforementioned equity hedges resulting from foreign subsidiaries investing in u.s. dollar denominated investments. most significantly, our japanese operations hold u.s. dollar denominated investments in their investment portfolios in excess of our equity investment in such operations. for a discussion of our japanese operations u.s. dollar denominated investment holdings, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations realized investment gains and general account investments general account investments portfolio composition, and management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations results of operations for financial services businesses by segment international insurance and investments division. we manage our investment foreign currency exchange rate risks, described above, within specified limits. foreign currency exchange risks for our domestic general account investment portfolio and the unhedged portion of our equity investment in foreign subsidiaries are managed using var-based analysis. this statistical technique estimates, at a specified confidence level, the potential pre-tax loss in portfolio market value that could occur over an assumed time horizon due to adverse market movements. the estimated var as of december 31, 2007 for foreign currency exchange risks in our domestic general account portfolio and the unhedged portion of equity investment in foreign subsidiaries, measured at a 95% confidence level and using a one-month time horizon, was $46 million, representing a hypothetical decline in fair market value of these foreign currency assets from $1.798 billion to $1.752 billion. the estimated var as of december 31, 2006 for foreign currency exchange risks in our domestic general account portfolio and the unhedged portion of equity investment in foreign subsidiaries, measured at a 95% confidence level and using a one-month time horizon, was $34 million, representing a hypothetical decline in fair market value of these foreign currency assets from $1.468 billion to $1.434 billion. the average var for foreign currency exchange risks in our domestic general account portfolio and the unhedged portion of equity investment in foreign subsidiaries, measured monthly at a 95% confidence level over a one month time horizon, was $35 million during 2007 and $39 million during 2006. these calculations use historical price volatilities and correlation data at a 95% confidence level. we discuss limitations of var models below. the estimated var for instruments used to hedge our anticipated exposure to adjusted operating income fluctuations resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates relating to our international operations, measured at a 95% confidence level and using a one-month time horizon, was $73 million as of december 31, 2007 and $71 million as of december 31, 2006. derivatives derivatives are financial instruments whose values are derived from interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, financial indices, or the prices of securities or commodities. derivative financial instruments may be exchange-traded or contracted in the over-the-counter market and include swaps, futures, options and forward contracts. we are also a party to financial instruments that may contain derivative instruments that are embedded 167 table of contents in the financial instruments. see note 19 to the consolidated financial statements for a description of our derivative activities as of december 31, 2007 and 2006. under insurance statutes, our insurance companies may use derivative financial instruments to hedge actual or anticipated changes in their assets or liabilities, to replicate cash market instruments or for certain income-generating activities. these statutes generally prohibit the use of derivatives for speculative purposes. we use derivative financial instruments primarily to seek to reduce market risk from changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, as well as equity prices, and to alter interest rate or foreign currency exposures arising from mismatches between assets and liabilities. in addition, we use derivative financial instruments to mitigate risk associated with some of our benefit features of our variable annuity contracts. trading activities we engage in trading activities primarily in connection with our derivatives trading operations. we maintain trading positions in various foreign exchange instruments and commodities, primarily to facilitate transactions for our clients. market risk affects the values of our trading positions through fluctuations in absolute or relative interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, securities and commodity prices. we seek to use short security positions and forwards, futures, options and other derivatives to limit exposure to interest rate and other market risks. we also trade derivative financial instruments that allow our clients to manage exposure to interest rate, currency and other market risks. our derivative transactions involve both exchange-listed and over-the-counter contracts and are generally short-term in duration. we act both as a broker, buying and selling exchange-listed contracts for our customers, and as a dealer, by entering into futures and security transactions as a principal. as a broker, we assume counterparty and credit risks that we seek to mitigate by using margin or other credit enhancements and by establishing trading limits and credit lines. as a dealer, we are subject to market risk as well as counterparty and credit risk. we manage the market risk associated with trading activities through hedging activities and formal policies, risk and position limits, counterparty and credit limits, daily position monitoring, and other forms of risk management. in the second quarter of 2007, the company announced its decision to exit the equity sales, trading and research operations of the prudential equity group. see note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. value-at-risk var is one of the tools we use to monitor and manage our exposure to the market risk of our trading activities. we calculate a var that encompasses our trading activities using a 95% confidence level. the var method incorporates the risk factors to which the market value of our trading activities is exposed, which consist of interest rates, including credit spreads, foreign currency exchange rates, and commodity prices, estimates of volatilities from historical data, the sensitivity of our trading activities to changes in those market factors and the correlations of those factors. the total var for our trading activities, which considers our combined exposure to interest rate risk, foreign currency exchange rate risk, and commodities price risk, expressed in terms of adverse changes to fair value at a 95% confidence level over a one-day time horizon, was $1 million as of december 31, 2007 and $1 million as of december 31, 2006. the largest component of this total var as of december 31, 2007 and 2006 was related to commodities price risk. the total average daily var for our trading activities considering our exposure to interest rate risk, foreign currency exchange rate risk, and commodities price risk, expressed in terms of adverse changes to fair value with a 95% confidence level over a one-day time horizon, was $1 million during 2007 and $1 million during 2006. the largest component of both periods total average daily var was related to commodities price risk. limitations of var models although var models are a recognized tool for risk management, they have inherent limitations, including reliance on historical data that may not be indicative of future market conditions or trading patterns. accordingly, var models should not be viewed as a predictor of future results. we may incur losses that could be materially in excess of the amounts indicated by the models on a particular trading day or over a period of time, and there have been instances when results have fallen outside the values generated by our var models. a var model does not estimate the greatest possible loss. the results of these models and analysis thereof are subject to the judgment of our risk management personnel. 168 table of contentsrisk factors 43 risk factors you should carefully consider the following risks. these risks could materially affect our business, results of operations or financial condition, cause the trading price of our common stock to decline materially or cause our actual results to differ materially from those expected or those expressed in any forward looking statements made by or on behalf of the company. these risks are not exclusive, and additional risks to which we are subject include, but are not limited to, the factors mentioned under forward-looking statements above and the risks of our businesses described elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k. some of our businesses and our results of operations have been materially adversely affected by the adverse conditions in the global financial markets and economic conditions generally. our businesses, results of operations and financial condition may be further adversely affected, possibly materially, if these conditions persist or deteriorate. we cannot predict the effect of governmental actions in response to the current financial crisis. our results of operations have been materially adversely affected by conditions in the global financial markets and the economy generally, both in the u.s. and elsewhere around the world. the stress experienced by global financial markets that began in the second half of 2007 has continued and substantially increased since then. the volatility and disruption in the global financial markets have reached unprecedented levels. the availability and cost of credit has been materially affected. these factors, combined with economic conditions in the u.s. including depressed home prices and increasing foreclosures, falling equity market values, declining business and consumer confidence and rising unemployment, have precipitated a severe economic recession and fears of even more severe and prolonged adverse economic conditions. the global fixed-income markets are experiencing a period of both extreme volatility and limited market liquidity conditions, which has affected a broad range of asset classes and sectors. as a result, the market for fixed income instruments has experienced decreased liquidity, increased price volatility, credit downgrade events, and increased probability of default. global equity markets have also been experiencing heightened volatility. these events and the continuing market upheavals have had and may continue to have an adverse effect on us. our revenues are likely to decline in such circumstances, the cost of meeting our obligations to our customers may increase, and our profit margins would likely erode. in addition, in the event of a prolonged or severe economic downturn, we could incur significant losses in our investment portfolio. the demand for our products could be adversely affected in an economic downturn characterized by higher unemployment, lower family income, lower consumer spending, lower corporate earnings and lower business investment. we also may experience a higher incidence of claims and lapses or surrenders of policies. our policyholders may choose to defer or stop paying insurance premiums. we cannot predict definitively whether or when such actions, which could impact our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, may occur. 43 in response to the market dislocation affecting the banking system and financial markets, on october 3, 2008, president bush signed the emergency economic stabilization act of 2008, or eesa, into law. pursuant to the eesa, the u.s. treasury has the authority to, among other things, purchase up to $700 billion of mortgage-backed and other securities from financial institutions for the purpose of stabilizing the financial markets. on october 14, 2008, the u.s. treasury announced that it would use eesa authority to invest an aggregate of $250 billion (of the first $350 billion released under eesa) in capital issued by qualifying u.s. financial institutions under the u.s. treasury capital purchase program, which is part of the troubled asset relief program, or tarp. the tarp capital purchase program involves the issuance by qualifying institutions of preferred stock and warrants to purchase common stock to the u.s. treasury. concurrently, in coordination with the u.s. treasury, the fdic announced the temporary liquidity guarantee program, through which it guarantees certain newly issued senior unsecured debt issued by fdic insured institutions and their qualifying holding companies, as well as funds over $250,000 in non-interest-bearing transaction deposit accounts. in addition, since march 2008, the federal reserve has created several lending facilities to stabilize financial markets. most recently, on november 25, 2008, the federal reserve announced the term asset-backed securities loan facility, or talf. the talf has not yet been implemented but is designed to provide secured financing for newly issued asset-backed securities backed by certain types of consumer and small business loans. on february 10, 2009, the u.s. treasury announced a financial stability plan to build upon existing programs and earmark the second $350 billion of funds that were authorized under the eesa and released in january 2009. the elements of the financial stability plan, as described by the u.s. treasury, are a capital assistance program and financial stability trust to make capital available to financial institutions through additional purchases of preferred stock, a public-private investment fund to buy legacy loans and assets from financial institutions, a consumer and business lending initiative to restart securitization markets for loans to consumers and businesses by expanding upon talf, and a comprehensive housing program to, among other things, help reduce mortgage payments and interest rates. the u.s. treasury has stated that the financial stability plan will require high levels of transparency and accountability standards and dividend, acquisition and executive compensation restrictions for financial institutions that receive government assistance going forward. we have applied to participate in the capital purchase program, although no determination with respect to our participation has been made. we also continue to evaluate other government sponsored programs for which we may be eligible. the u.s. federal government has taken or is considering taking other actions to address the financial crisis that could further impact our business. we cannot predict with any certainty whether these actions will be effective or the effect they may have on the financial markets or on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. markets in the united states and elsewhere have experienced extreme and unprecedented volatility and disruption, with adverse consequences to our liquidity, access to capital and cost of capital. a continuation or deterioration in these conditions may significantly affect our ability to meet liquidity needs, our access to capital and our cost of capital, including capital that may be required by our subsidiaries. adverse capital market conditions have affected and may continue to affect the availability and cost of borrowed funds and could impact our ability to refinance existing borrowings, thereby ultimately impacting our profitability and ability to support or grow our businesses. we need liquidity to pay our operating expenses, interest on our debt and dividends on our capital stock and replace certain maturing debt obligations. without sufficient liquidity, we could be forced to curtail certain of our operations, and our business could suffer. the principal sources of our liquidity are insurance premiums, annuity considerations, deposit funds and cash flow from our investment portfolio and assets, consisting mainly of cash or assets that are readily convertible into cash. sources of liquidity in normal markets also include a variety of short- and long-term instruments, including securities lending and repurchase agreements, commercial paper, medium and long-term debt and capital securities. disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the financial markets have limited and may be expected to continue to limit our access to capital required to operate our business, most significantly our insurance operations. these market conditions may limit our ability to replace, in a timely manner, maturing debt obligations and access the 44 capital necessary to grow our business, replace capital withdrawn by customers or raise new capital required by our subsidiaries as a result of volatility in the markets. as a result, we may be forced to delay raising capital, issue shorter tenor securities than would be optimal, bear an unattractive cost of capital or be unable to raise capital at any price, which could decrease our profitability and significantly reduce our financial flexibility. given the disruptions in the credit and capital markets, we have been unable to issue debt at an affordable cost recently and it is uncertain at this time whether we can issue debt under our medium term note program at all, or at least at a cost that is not prohibitive. actions we might take to access financing may in turn cause rating agencies to reevaluate our ratings. in the event current resources do not satisfy our needs, we may have to seek additional financing. the availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the overall availability of credit to the financial services industry, and our credit ratings and credit capacity. our internal sources of liquidity may prove to be insufficient, and in such case, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. the risk based capital, or rbc, ratio is the primary measure by which we evaluate the capital adequacy of prudential insurance, which includes businesses in both the financial services businesses and the closed block business. we manage prudential insurance rbc ratio to a level consistent with a aa ratings objective; however, rating agencies take into account a variety of factors in assigning ratings to our insurance subsidiaries in addition to rbc levels. rbc is determined by statutory rules that consider risks related to the type and quality of the invested assets, insurance-related risks associated with prudential insurance products, interest rate risks and general business risks. the rbc ratio calculations are intended to assist insurance regulators in measuring the adequacy of prudential insurance statutory capitalization. as of december 31, 2008, we estimate that the total capital of our domestic life insurance subsidiaries met the rbc levels required to meet their ratings objectives. subsequent to september 30, 2008 market conditions negatively impacted the level of capital in our domestic life insurance subsidiaries and caused us to take capital management actions to maintain capital consistent with these ratings objectives, which included redeployment of financial resources from internal sources, including the contribution of the subsidiary that holds our minority interest in the wachovia securities retail brokerage joint to prudential insurance. a continuation or worsening of the disruptions in the credit and capital markets could adversely affect prudential financial and its subsidiaries ability to access sources of liquidity, as well as threaten to reduce our capital below a level that is consistent with our existing ratings objectives. therefore, we may need to take additional actions, which may include but are not limited to: (1) additional capital management activities; (2) further access to our alternative sources of liquidity; (3) accelerating or restructuring loans extended to affiliates; (4) access to external sources of capital, including the debt or equity markets; (5) limiting or curtailing sales of certain products and/or restructuring existing products; (6) undertaking asset sales; and (7) seeking temporary or permanent changes to regulatory rules. certain of these actions could require regulatory approval. our asset management operations include real estate held in prudential insurance separate accounts, for the benefit of clients, which enter into forward commitments which typically are funded from separate account assets and cash flows and related funding sources. owing to the adverse credit and capital market conditions, these separate accounts may have difficulty funding in the normal course commitments due in 2009. in that case, prudential insurance might be called upon or required to provide interim funding solutions, which could affect the availability of liquidity for other purposes. market fluctuations and general economic, market and political conditions may adversely affect our business and profitability. even under relatively more favorable market conditions (such as those prevailing before the second half of 2007), our insurance products and certain of our investment products, as well as our investment returns and our access to and cost of financing, are sensitive to fixed income, equity, real estate and other market fluctuations and general economic, market and political conditions. these fluctuations and conditions could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and liquidity, including in the following respects: the profitability of many of our insurance products depends in part on the value of the separate accounts supporting these products, which fluctuate substantially depending on the foregoing conditions. 45 market conditions resulting in reductions in the value of assets we manage have an adverse effect on the revenues and profitability of our asset management services, which depend on fees related primarily to the value of assets under management, and could further decrease the value of our proprietary investments. a change in market conditions, including prolonged periods of high inflation, could cause a change in consumer sentiment adversely affecting sales and persistency of our long-term savings and protection products. similarly, changing economic conditions can influence customer behavior including but not limited to increasing claims in certain product lines. sales of our investment-based and asset management products and services may decline and lapses and surrenders of variable life and annuity products and withdrawals of assets from other investment products may increase if a market downturn, increased market volatility or other market conditions result in customers becoming dissatisfied with their investments or products. a market decline could further result in guaranteed minimum benefits contained in many of our variable annuity products being higher than current account values or our pricing assumptions would support, requiring us to materially increase reserves for such products and may cause customers to retain contracts in force in order to benefit from the guarantees, thereby increasing their cost to us. market conditions determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection we purchase. accordingly, we may be forced to incur additional expenses for reinsurance or may not be able to obtain sufficient reinsurance on acceptable terms which could adversely affect the profitability of future business or our willingness to write future business. hedging instruments we hold to manage foreign exchange, product, and other risks might not perform as intended or expected resulting in higher realized losses and unforeseen cash needs. market conditions can also further increase the cost of executing product related hedges and such costs may not be recovered in the pricing of the underlying products being hedged. our hedging strategies rely on the performance of counterparties to such hedges. these counterparties may fail to perform for various reasons resulting in hedge ineffectiveness and higher losses. we have significant investment and derivative portfolios, including but not limited to corporate and asset-backed securities, equities and commercial real estate. economic conditions as well as adverse capital market conditions, including but not limited to a lack of buyers in the marketplace, volatility, credit spread changes, and benchmark interest rate changes, will impact the liquidity and value of our investments and derivatives, potentially resulting in higher realized or unrealized losses. for example, a widening of credit spreads, such as the market has experienced recently, increases the net unrealized loss position of our investment portfolio and may ultimately result in increased realized losses. values of our investments and derivatives can also be impacted by reductions in price transparency, changes in assumptions or inputs we use in estimating fair value and changes in investor confidence and preferences, potentially resulting in higher realized or unrealized losses. volatility can make it difficult to value certain of our securities if trading becomes less frequent. as such, valuations may include assumptions or estimates that may have significant period to period changes which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition. regardless of market conditions, certain investments we hold, including private bonds and commercial mortgages, are relatively illiquid. if we needed to sell these investments, we may have difficulty doing so in a timely manner at a price that we could otherwise realize. as described above, the adverse market and economic conditions that began in the second half of 2007 have continued and substantially worsened. the foregoing risks are even more pronounced in these unprecedented market and economic conditions. 46 interest rate fluctuations could adversely affect our businesses and profitability. our insurance products and certain of our investment products, and our investment returns, are sensitive to interest rate fluctuations, and changes in interest rates could adversely affect our investment returns and results of operations, including in the following respects: some of our products expose us to the risk that changes in interest rates will reduce the spread between the amounts that we are required to pay under the contracts and the rate of return we are able to earn on our general account investments supporting the contracts. when interest rates decline, we have to reinvest the cash income from our investments in lower yielding instruments. since many of our policies and contracts have guaranteed minimum interest or crediting rates or limit the resetting of interest rates, the spreads could decrease and potentially become negative. when interest rates rise, we may not be able to replace the assets in our general account with the higher yielding assets needed to fund the higher crediting rates necessary to keep these products and contracts competitive. this risk is heightened in the current market and economic environment, in which many desired securities are unavailable. changes in interest rates may reduce net investment income and thus our spread income which is a substantial portion of our profitability. changes in interest rates can also result in potential losses in our investment activities in which we borrow funds and purchase investments to earn additional spread income on the borrowed funds. a decline in market interest rates could also reduce our returns from investment of equity. when interest rates rise, policy loans and surrenders and withdrawals of life insurance policies and annuity contracts may increase as policyholders seek to buy products with perceived higher returns, requiring us to sell investment assets potentially resulting in realized investment losses, or requiring us to accelerate the amortization of dac or voba (both defined below). a decline in interest rates accompanied by unexpected prepayments of certain investments could result in reduced investments and a decline in our profitability. an increase in interest rates accompanied by unexpected extensions of certain lower yielding investments could result in a decline in our profitability. changes in the relationship between long-term and short-term interest rates could adversely affect the profitability of some of our products. changes in interest rates could increase our costs of financing. our mitigation efforts with respect to interest rate risk are primarily focused on maintaining an investment portfolio with diversified maturities that has a weighted average duration that is approximately equal to the duration of our estimated liability cash flow profile. however, there are practical and capital market limitations on our ability to accomplish this and our estimate of the liability cash flow profile may be inaccurate. due to these and other factors we may need to liquidate investments prior to maturity at a loss in order to satisfy liabilities or be forced to reinvest funds in a lower rate environment. although we take measures to manage the economic risks of investing in a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to effectively mitigate, and may choose based on factors, including economic considerations, not to fully mitigate, the interest rate risk of our assets relative to our liabilities. if our reserves for future policyholder benefits and claims are inadequate, we may be required to increase our reserves, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we establish and carry reserves to pay future policyholder benefits and claims. our reserves do not represent an exact calculation of liability, but rather are actuarial or statistical estimates based on models that include many assumptions and projections which are inherently uncertain and involve the exercise of significant judgment, including as to the levels of and/or timing of receipt or payment of premiums, benefits, claims, expenses, interest credits, investment results (including equity market returns), retirement, mortality, morbidity and persistency. we cannot determine with precision the ultimate amounts that we will pay for, or the timing of payment of, actual benefits, claims and expenses or whether the assets supporting our policy liabilities, together with future premiums, will be sufficient for payment of benefits and claims. if we conclude that our reserves, together with future premiums, are insufficient to cover future policy benefits and claims, we would be required to increase our reserves and incur income statement charges for the period in which we make the determination, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 47 for certain of our products, market performance impacts the level of statutory reserves and statutory capital we are required to hold, and may have an adverse effect on returns on capital associated with these products. for example, equity market declines in the fourth quarter of 2008 caused a significant increase in the level of statutory reserves and statutory capital we are required to hold in relation to our individual annuities business. capacity for reserve funding structures available in the marketplace is currently limited as a result of market conditions generally. our ability to efficiently manage capital and economic reserve levels may be impacted, thereby impacting profitability and return on capital. our profitability may decline if mortality rates, morbidity rates or persistency rates differ significantly from our pricing expectations. we set prices for many of our insurance and annuity products based upon expected claims and payment patterns, using assumptions for mortality rates, or likelihood of death, and morbidity rates, or likelihood of sickness, of our policyholders. in addition to the potential effect of natural or man-made disasters, significant changes in mortality or morbidity could emerge gradually over time, due to changes in the natural environment, the health habits of the insured population, treatment patterns for disease or disability, the economic environment, or other factors. pricing of our insurance and deferred annuity products are also based in part upon expected persistency of these products, which is the probability that a policy or contract will remain in force from one period to the next. persistency within our individual annuities business may be significantly impacted by the value of guaranteed minimum benefits contained in many of our variable annuity products being higher than current account values in light of equity market declines. results may also vary based on differences between actual and expected premium deposits and withdrawals for these products. the development of a secondary market for life insurance, including life settlements or viaticals and investor owned life insurance, could adversely affect the profitability of existing business and our pricing assumptions for new business. significant deviations in actual experience from our pricing assumptions could have an adverse effect on the profitability of our products. although some of our products permit us to increase premiums or adjust other charges and credits during the life of the policy or contract, the adjustments permitted under the terms of the policies or contracts may not be sufficient to maintain profitability. many of our products do not permit us to increase premiums or adjust other charges and credits or limit those adjustments during the life of the policy or contract. we may be required to accelerate the amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs, or dac, or valuation of business acquired, or voba, or recognize impairment in the value of our goodwill or certain investments, which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. deferred policy acquisition costs, or dac, represent the costs that vary with and are related primarily to the acquisition of new and renewal insurance and annuity contracts, and we amortize these costs over the expected lives of the contracts. valuation of business acquired, or voba, represents the present value of future profits embedded in acquired insurance, annuity and investment-type contracts and is amortized over the expected effective lives of the acquired contracts. management, on an ongoing basis, tests the dac and voba recorded on our balance sheet to determine if these amounts are recoverable under current assumptions. in addition, we regularly review the estimates and assumptions underlying dac and voba for those products for which we amortize dac and voba in proportion to gross profits or gross margins. given changes in facts and circumstances, these tests and reviews could lead to further reductions in dac and/or voba that could have an adverse effect on the results of our operations and our financial condition. significant or sustained equity market declines as well as investment losses has resulted and could result in further acceleration of amortization of the dac and voba related to variable annuity and variable universal life contracts, resulting in a charge to income. goodwill represents the excess of the amounts we paid to acquire subsidiaries and other businesses over the fair value of their net assets at the date of acquisition. goodwill is assessed annually for potential impairment, or more frequently if conditions warrant, by comparing the carrying value (equity attributed to a business to support its risk) of a business to its estimated fair value at that date. in the fourth quarter of 2008, the significant equity, real estate and other market declines resulted in declines in the fair value, or increases in the level of equity required to support, certain of our businesses. as a result, in the fourth quarter of 2008 we recognized an impairment of goodwill of $337 million of which $97 million related to our individual annuities business, $123 48 million related to our international investments business, and $117 million related to our real estate and relocation business, which amounts reflected the entire balance of goodwill associated with these businesses. as of december 31, 2008, we had a remaining goodwill balance of $702 million, including $444 million related to our retirement business and $241 million related to our asset management business. further market declines or other events impacting the fair value of these businesses, or increases in the level of equity required to support these businesses, could result in additional goodwill impairments, resulting in a charge to income. in the fourth quarter of 2008, declines in financial markets impacted the fair value of certain equity method investments, particularly in our international investments business, which resulted in a charge to income for an impairment of these investments of $316 million. further declines in the fair value of these investments, which have a remaining carrying value of approximately $300 million as of december 31, 2008, may require that we review the remaining carrying value of these investments for potential impairment, and such review could result in additional impairments and charges to income. our valuation of fixed maturity, equity and trading securities may include methodologies, estimations and assumptions that are subject to differing interpretations and could result in changes to investment valuations that may materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. during periods of market disruption, such as the unprecedented current market conditions, it may be difficult to value certain of our securities, such as sub-prime mortgage backed securities, if trading becomes less frequent and/or market data becomes less observable. there are and may continue to be certain asset classes that were in active markets with significant observable data that have or may become illiquid due to the current financial environment or market conditions. as a result, valuations may include inputs and assumptions that are less observable or require greater estimation and judgment as well as valuation methods which are more complex. these values may not be ultimately realizable in a market transaction, and such values may change very rapidly as market conditions change and valuation assumptions are modified. decreases in value may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. the decision on whether to record an other-than-temporary impairment or write-down is determined in part by management assessment of the financial condition and prospects of a particular issuer, projections of future cash flows and recoverability of the particular security as well as an evaluation of the company ability and intent to hold the securities to recovery. given current market conditions and liquidity concerns, beginning in the third quarter of 2008, our determinations of whether a decline in value is other-than-temporary have placed greater emphasis on our analysis of the underlying credit and our ability and intent to hold the investment for a period of time to allow for a recovery of value, versus the extent and duration of a decline in value. management conclusions on such assessments may ultimately prove to be incorrect as facts and circumstances change. for a discussion of certain fixed maturity securities where the estimated fair value has declined and remained below amortized cost by more than 15% but less than 20% and by more than 20%, respectively, see realized investment gains and losses and general account investments unrealized losses from fixed maturity securities. we have experienced and may experience additional downgrades in our claims paying or credit ratings. a downgrade or potential downgrade in our claims-paying or credit ratings could limit our ability to market products, increase the number or value of policies being surrendered, increase our borrowing costs and/or hurt our relationships with creditors or trading counterparties. claims-paying ratings, which are sometimes referred to as financial strength ratings, represent the opinions of rating agencies regarding the financial ability of an insurance company to meet its obligations under an insurance policy, and are important factors affecting public confidence in an insurer and its competitive position in marketing products, including prudential insurance and our other insurance company subsidiaries. credit ratings represent the opinions of rating agencies regarding an entity ability to repay its indebtedness, and prudential financial credit ratings are important to our ability to raise capital through the issuance of debt and to the cost of such financing. a downgrade in our claims-paying or credit ratings could limit our ability to market products, reduce our competitiveness, increase the number or value of policies being surrendered, increase our borrowing costs, adversely affect the availability of financial guarantees, such as letters of credit, cause 49 additional collateral requirements under certain agreements (including our securities lending agreements), and/or hurt our relationships with creditors or trading counterparties. in addition, actions we might take to access third party financing or to realign our capital structure may in turn cause rating agencies to reevaluate our ratings. in view of the difficulties experienced recently by many financial institutions, the rating agencies have heightened the level of scrutiny that they apply to such institutions, have increased the frequency and scope of their credit reviews, have requested additional information from the companies that they rate, and may adjust upward the capital and other requirements employed in the rating agency models for maintenance of certain ratings levels, such as the financial strength ratings currently held by our life insurance subsidiaries. the outcome of such reviews may have adverse ratings consequences, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation and financial condition. in late september and early october, 2008, a.m. best company, inc., fitch ratings ltd., moody investors service, and standard &amp; poor s, respectively, each revised its outlook for the u.s. life insurance sector to negative from stable, citing, among other things, the significant deterioration and volatility in the credit and equity markets, economic and political uncertainty, and the expected impact of realized and unrealized investment losses on life insurers capital levels and profitability. on november 21, 2008, moody affirmed the long-term senior debt rating of prudential financial at a3 and affirmed the financial strength ratings of our life insurance subsidiaries at aa3. moody also revised its outlook on our ratings to negative from stable. on february 10, 2009 moody placed the long-term ratings of prudential financial and our life insurance subsidiaries on review for possible downgrade. the short-term ratings of prudential financial and prudential funding were affirmed with a stable outlook. on december 2, 2008, fitch lowered prudential financial long-term senior debt rating to a- from a and lowered the financial strength ratings of our life insurance subsidiaries to aa- from aa, with ratings outlook revised from stable to negative. on february 19, 2009, fitch lowered prudential financial long-term senior debt rating to bbb from a- and the short-term rating to f2 from f1. fitch also downgraded the financial strength ratings of our life insurance subsidiaries to a+ from aa- and the short-term rating of prudential funding, llc to f1 from f1+. the outlook for all ratings remains negative. on december 11, 2008, a.m. best affirmed the financial strength rating of a+ for our life insurance subsidiaries and affirmed the credit rating of a- for prudential financial long-term senior debt. the outlook for the financial strength ratings remained stable and the outlook for the long-term senior debt credit rating was revised to stable from positive. on february 17, 2009, s&amp;p lowered prudential financial long-term senior debt rating to a from a+ and affirmed the aa ratings of our life insurance subsidiaries. the long-term ratings outlook was revised from stable to negative. on february 26, 2009, s&amp;p lowered the financial strength ratings of our life insurance subsidiaries to aa- from aa and affirmed prudential financial long-term senior debt ratings as a. the outlook for both ratings was revised from negative to stable. as a result of the ratings action taken by fitch on february 19, 2009, prudential financial is no longer eligible to participate in the commercial paper funding facility sponsored by the federal reserve bank of new york, although prudential funding, llc continues to be eligible. we cannot predict what additional actions rating agencies may take, or what actions we may take in response to the actions of rating agencies, which could adversely affect our business. as with other companies in the financial services industry, our ratings could be downgraded at any time and without notice by any rating agency. ratings downgrades and changes in credit spreads may require us to post collateral, thereby affecting our liquidity, and we may be unable to effectively implement certain capital management activities as a result, or for other reasons. a downgrade in the credit or financial strength ratings of prudential financial or its rated subsidiaries could result in additional collateral requirements or other required payments under certain agreements, which are eligible to be satisfied in cash or by posting securities held by the subsidiaries subject to the agreements. a 50 ratings downgrade of three ratings levels from the ratings levels at december 31, 2008 would result in estimated collateral posting requirements or payments under such agreements of approximately $200 million. in addition, a ratings downgrade by a.m. best to a- for our domestic life insurance companies would require prudential insurance to post a letter of credit in the amount of $1.6 billion that we estimate would result in annual cash outflows of approximately $130 million, or collateral posting in the form of cash or securities to be held in a trust. in addition, agreements in connection with capital management activities for our universal life insurance products would require us to post cash collateral based on tests that consider the level of 10-year credit default swap spreads on prudential financial senior debt. as of december 31, 2008, when estimates of prudential financial 10-year credit default swap spreads were 575 basis points, we posted $125 million of collateral under this agreement. we estimate that the collateral posting requirements could be $400 million at an effective 10-year credit default swap spread of 2,000 basis points, based on indications of forward libor rates as of december 31, 2008. the naic has adopted a model regulation entitled valuation of life insurance policies, commonly known as regulation xxx, and a supporting guideline entitled the application of the valuation of life insurance policies, commonly known as guideline axxx. the regulation and supporting guideline require insurers to establish statutory reserves for term and universal life insurance policies with long-term premium guarantees that are consistent with the statutory reserves required for other individual life insurance policies with similar guarantees. many market participants believe that this level of reserves is excessive, and we have implemented reinsurance and capital management actions to mitigate the impact of regulation xxx and guideline axxx on our term and universal life insurance business. however, we may not be able to implement actions to mitigate the impact of regulation xxx or guideline axxx on future sales of term or universal life insurance products, thereby potentially resulting in an adverse impact on returns on capital associated with these products, and possibly requiring us to reduce our sales of these products or implement measures that may be disruptive to our business. as we continue to underwrite term and universal life business, we expect to have borrowing needs in 2009 to finance statutory reserves required under regulation xxx and guideline axxx. however, based on current market conditions, we may not be able to finance these needs. we are currently reviewing both internal and external sources of funding to address these needs. losses due to defaults by others, including issuers of investment securities or reinsurance, bond insurers and derivative instrument counterparties, downgrades in the ratings of securities we hold or of bond insurers, and insolvencies of insurers in jurisdictions where we write business, could adversely affect the value of our investments, the realization of amounts contractually owed to us, result in assessments or additional statutory capital requirements or reduce our profitability. issuers and borrowers whose securities or loans we hold, customers, trading counterparties, counterparties under swaps and other derivative contracts, reinsurers, clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses and other financial intermediaries and guarantors, including bond insurers, may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, insolvency, lack of liquidity, adverse economic conditions, operational failure, fraud or other reasons. such defaults, instances of which have occurred in recent months, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. a downgrade in the ratings of bond insurers could also result in declines in the value of our fixed maturity investments supported by guarantees from bond insurers. in addition, we use derivative instruments to hedge various risks, including certain guaranteed minimum benefits contained in many of our variable annuity products. we enter into a variety of derivative instruments, including options, forwards, interest rate, credit default and currency swaps with a number of counterparties. our obligations under our variable annuity products are not changed by our hedging activities and we are liable for our obligations even if our derivative counterparties do not pay us. this is a more pronounced risk to us in view of the recent stresses suffered by financial institutions. such defaults could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. under state insurance guaranty association laws and similar laws in international jurisdictions, we are subject to assessments, based on the share of business we write in the relevant jurisdiction, for certain obligations of insolvent insurance companies to policyholders and claimants. 51 amounts that we expect to collect under current and future contracts, including proceeds we expect to realize from the intended put of our wachovia securities joint venture interests to wells fargo, are subject to counterparty risk. intense competition could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our market share or profitability. in each of our businesses we face intense competition from domestic and foreign insurance companies, asset managers and diversified financial institutions, both for the ultimate customers for our products and, in many businesses, for distribution through non-affiliated distribution channels. we compete based on a number of factors including brand recognition, reputation, quality of service, quality of investment advice, investment performance of our products, product features, scope of distribution and distribution arrangements, price, perceived financial strength and claims-paying and credit ratings. a decline in our competitive position as to one or more of these factors could adversely affect our profitability and assets under management. many of our competitors are large and well established and some have greater market share or breadth of distribution, offer a broader range of products, services or features, assume a greater level of risk, have lower profitability expectations or have higher claims-paying or credit ratings than we do. we could be subject to claims by competitors that our products infringe their patents, which could adversely affect our sales, profitability and financial position. the proliferation and growth of non-affiliated distribution channels puts pressure on our captive sales channels to increase their productivity and reduce their costs in order to remain competitive, and we run the risk that the marketplace will make a more significant or rapid shift to non-affiliated or direct distribution alternatives than we anticipate or are able to achieve ourselves, potentially adversely affecting our market share and results of operations. competition for personnel in all of our businesses is intense, including for prudential agents, life planners and life advisors, other face-to-face sales personnel, desirable non-affiliated distribution channels and our investment managers. the loss of personnel could have an adverse effect on our business and profitability. the adverse market and economic conditions that began in the second half of 2007 and that have continued and worsened since then can be expected to result in changes in the competitive landscape. for example, the financial distress experienced by certain financial services industry participants as a result of such conditions may lead to favorable acquisition opportunities, although our ability or that of our competitors to pursue such opportunities may be limited due to lower earnings, reserve increases, and a lack of access to debt capital markets and other sources of financing. such conditions may also lead to changes by us or our competitors in product offerings, product pricing and business mix that could affect our and their relative sales volumes, market shares and profitability. it is also possible that such conditions may put u.s. companies like us with financial operations in non-u.s. locations at a competitive disadvantage relative to domestic companies operating in those locations and may impact sales in those locations. additionally, the competitive landscape in which we operate may be further affected by the government sponsored programs in the u.s. and similar governmental actions outside of the u.s. in response to the severe dislocations in financial markets. changes in u.s. federal income tax law or in the income tax laws of other jurisdictions in which we operate could make some of our products less attractive to consumers and increase our tax costs. current u.s. federal income tax laws generally permit certain holders to defer taxation on the build-up of value of annuities and life insurance products until payments are actually made to the policyholder or other beneficiary and to exclude from taxation the death benefit paid under a life insurance contract. congress from time to time considers legislation that could make our products less attractive to consumers, including legislation that would reduce or eliminate the benefit of this deferral on some annuities and insurance products, as well as other types of changes that could reduce or eliminate the attractiveness of annuities and life insurance products to consumers, such as repeal of the estate tax. for example, the economic growth and tax relief reconciliation act of 2001 and the jobs and growth tax relief reconciliation act of 2003 generally provided for lower income tax, capital gains and dividend tax 52 rates that had the effect of reducing the benefits of tax deferral on the build-up of value of annuities and life insurance products. continuation of these reduced rates, which are due to sunset in 2011, may hinder our sales and result in the increased surrender of insurance and annuity products. congress, as well as state and local governments, also considers from time to time legislation that could increase the amount of corporate taxes we pay. for example, changes in the law relating to tax reserving methodologies for term life or universal life insurance policies with secondary guarantees could result in higher corporate taxes. if such legislation is adopted our consolidated net income could decline. the u.s. treasury department and the internal revenue service intend to address through regulations the methodology to be followed in determining the dividends received deduction, or drd, related to variable life insurance and annuity contracts. the drd reduces the amount of dividend income subject to tax and is a significant component of the difference between our actual tax expense and expected amount determined using the federal statutory tax rate of 35%. a change in the drd, including the possible retroactive or prospective elimination of this deduction through regulations or legislation, could increase our actual tax expense and reduce our consolidated net income. the products we sell have different tax characteristics, in some cases generating tax deductions. the level of profitability of certain of our products are significantly dependent on these characteristics and our ability to continue to generate taxable income, which are taken into consideration when pricing products and are a component of our capital management strategies. accordingly, a change in tax law, our ability to generate taxable income, or other factors impacting the availability of the tax characteristics generated by our products, could impact product pricing and returns. we have substantial international operations and our international operations face political, legal, operational and other risks that could adversely affect those operations or our profitability. a substantial portion of our revenues and income from continuing operations is derived from our operations in foreign countries, primarily japan and korea. these operations are subject to restrictions on transferring funds out of the countries in which these operations are located. some of our foreign insurance and investment management operations are, and are likely to continue to be, in emerging markets where this risk as well as risks of discriminatory regulation, labor issues in connection with workers associations and trade unions, price controls, currency exchange controls, nationalization or expropriation of assets, are heightened. if our business model is not successful in a particular country, we may lose all or most of our investment in building and training our sales force in that country. many of our insurance products sold in international markets provide for the buildup of cash values for the policyholder at contractually fixed guaranteed interest rates, including in japan. actual returns on the underlying investments do not necessarily match the guaranteed interest rates and there may be times when the spread between the actual investment returns and these guaranteed rates of return to the policyholder is negative and in which this negative spread may not be offset by the mortality, morbidity and expense charges we earn on the products. our international businesses are subject to the tax laws and regulations of the countries in which they are organized and in which they operate. foreign governments from time to time consider legislation that could increase the amount of taxes that we pay or impact the sales of our products. for example, during 2007, mexico enacted an alternative flat tax that became effective in 2008, while china, germany, italy and the united kingdom reduced corporate tax rates for 2008. in march 2007, the japanese national tax authority, or nta, indicated that it would change the tax treatment of certain term life products sold to corporations, which resulted in a significant decrease in the sale of increasing term life insurance to corporations in japan. on december 26, 2007, the nta confirmed in an official announcement its intention to revise the corporate tax deductibility of insurance premiums paid with respect to certain increasing term insurance products. the nta then released a revised tax circular that reduced, but did not eliminate, the corporate tax deductibility of insurance premiums paid with respect to increasing term insurance products sold after february 28, 2008. in 2008, korea enacted a corporate income tax rate reduction from 27.5% to 24.2% for fiscal years beginning on or after january 1, 2009 and to 22% for fiscal years beginning on or after january 1, 2010. 53 our international operations are regulated in the jurisdictions in which they are located or operate. these regulations may apply heightened scrutiny to non-domestic companies, which can reduce our flexibility as to intercompany transactions, investments and other aspects of business operations and adversely affect our liquidity and profitability. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect our profitability and cash flow. we are exposed to foreign currency exchange risks in our general account investment portfolios, other proprietary investment portfolios and through our operations in foreign countries and our hedging programs. currency fluctuations may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. our businesses are heavily regulated and changes in regulation may reduce our profitability. our businesses are subject to comprehensive regulation and supervision. the purpose of this regulation is primarily to protect our customers and not necessarily our shareholders. many of the laws and regulations to which we are subject, including those to which our international businesses are subject, are regularly re-examined, and existing or future laws and regulations may become more restrictive or otherwise adversely affect our operations. this is particularly the case under current market conditions. it appears likely that the continuing financial markets dislocation will lead to extensive changes in existing laws and regulations, and regulatory frameworks, applicable to our businesses in the u.s. and internationally. prudential financial is subject to the rules and regulations of the sec and the nyse relating to public reporting and disclosure, securities trading, accounting and financial reporting, and corporate governance matters. the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and rules and regulations adopted in furtherance of that act have substantially increased the requirements in these and other areas for public companies such as prudential financial. many insurance regulatory and other governmental or self-regulatory bodies have the authority to review our products and business practices and those of our agents and employees and to bring regulatory or other legal actions against us if, in their view, our practices, or those of our agents or employees, are improper. these actions can result in substantial fines, penalties or prohibitions or restrictions on our business activities and could adversely affect our business, reputation, results of operations or financial condition. for a discussion of material pending litigation and regulatory matters, see legal proceedings. congress from time to time considers pension reform legislation that could decrease the attractiveness of certain of our retirement products and services to retirement plan sponsors and administrators, or have an unfavorable effect on our ability to earn revenues from these products and services. in this regard, the pension protection act of 2006 ( ppa ) makes significant changes in employer pension funding obligations associated with defined benefit pension plans which are likely to increase sponsors costs of maintaining these plans. these changes could hinder our sales of defined benefit pension products and services and cause sponsors to discontinue existing plans for which we provide asset management, administrative, or other services, but could increase the attractiveness of certain group annuity products we offer in connection with terminating pension plans. the bush administration also had proposed several tax-favored savings initiatives. these initiatives could hinder sales and persistency of our products and services that support employment based retirement plans. insurance regulators, as well as industry participants, have also begun to consider potentially significant changes in the way in which statutory reserves and statutory capital are determined, particularly for products with embedded options and guarantees. new regulatory capital requirements have already gone into effect for variable annuity products. the timing of, and extent of, such changes to the statutory reporting framework are uncertain; however, the result could be increases to statutory reserves and capital, and an adverse effect on our products, sales and operating costs. in view of recent events involving certain financial institutions, it is likely that the u.s. federal government will heighten its oversight of companies in the financial services industry such as us, including possibly through a federal system of insurance regulation. we cannot predict whether this or other proposals will be adopted, or what impact, if any, such proposals or, if enacted, such laws, could have on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 54 compliance with applicable laws and regulations is time consuming and personnel-intensive, and changes in these laws and regulations may materially increase our direct and indirect compliance and other expenses of doing business, thus having a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. see business regulation for further discussion of the impact of regulations on our businesses. legal and regulatory actions are inherent in our businesses and could adversely affect our results of operations or financial position or harm our businesses or reputation. we are, and in the future may be, subject to legal and regulatory actions in the ordinary course of our businesses, including in businesses that we have divested or placed in wind-down status. some of these proceedings have been brought on behalf of various alleged classes of complainants. in certain of these matters, the plaintiffs are seeking large and/or indeterminate amounts, including punitive or exemplary damages. substantial legal liability in these or future legal or regulatory actions could have an adverse affect on us or cause us reputational harm, which in turn could harm our business prospects. material pending litigation and regulatory matters affecting us, and certain risks to our businesses presented by such matters, are discussed under legal proceedings. our litigation and regulatory matters are subject to many uncertainties, and given their complexity and scope, their outcome cannot be predicted. our reserves for litigation and regulatory matters may prove to be inadequate. it is possible that our results of operations or cash flow in a particular quarterly or annual period could be materially affected by an ultimate unfavorable resolution of pending litigation and regulatory matters depending, in part, upon the results of operations or cash flow for such period. in light of the unpredictability of the company litigation and regulatory matters, it is also possible that in certain cases an ultimate unfavorable resolution of one or more pending litigation or regulatory matters could have a material adverse effect on the company financial position. the occurrence of natural or man-made disasters could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. the occurrence of natural disasters, including hurricanes, floods, earthquakes, tornadoes, fires, explosions, pandemic disease and man-made disasters, including acts of terrorism and military actions, could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition, including in the following respects: catastrophic loss of life due to natural or man-made disasters could cause us to pay benefits at higher levels and/or materially earlier than anticipated and could lead to unexpected changes in persistency rates. a natural or man-made disaster could result in losses in our investment portfolio or the failure of our counterparties to perform, or cause significant volatility in global financial markets. a terrorist attack affecting financial institutions in the united states or elsewhere could negatively impact the financial services industry in general and our business operations, investment portfolio and profitability in particular. as previously reported, in august 2004, the u.s. department of homeland security identified our newark, new jersey facilities, along with those of several other financial institutions in new york and washington, d.c., as possible targets of a terrorist attack. pandemic disease, caused by a virus such as h5n1 (the avian flu virus), could have a severe adverse effect on prudential financial business. the potential impact of such a pandemic on prudential financial results of operations and financial position is highly speculative, and would depend on numerous factors, including: the probability of the virus mutating to a form that can be passed from human to human; the rate of contagion if and when that occurs; the regions of the world most affected; the effectiveness of treatment for the infected population; the rates of mortality and morbidity among various segments of the insured versus the uninsured population; the collectability of reinsurance; the possible macroeconomic effects of a pandemic on the company asset portfolio; the effect on lapses and surrenders of existing policies, as well as sales of new policies; and many other variables. there can be no assurance that our business continuation plans and insurance coverages would be effective in mitigating any negative effects on our operations or profitability in the event of a terrorist attack or other disaster. 55 our risk management policies and procedures and our minority investments in joint ventures may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk, which could adversely affect our businesses or result in losses. our policies and procedures to monitor and manage risks, including hedging programs that utilize derivative financial instruments, may not be fully effective and may leave us exposed to unidentified and unanticipated risks. the company uses models in its hedging programs and many other aspects of its operations, including but not limited to the estimation of actuarial reserves, the amortization of deferred acquisition costs and the value of business acquired, and the valuation of certain other assets and liabilities. these models rely on assumptions and projections that are inherently uncertain. management of operational, legal and regulatory risks requires, among other things, policies and procedures to record properly and verify a large number of transactions and events, and these policies and procedures may not be fully effective. past or future misconduct by our employees or employees of our vendors could result in violations of law by us, regulatory sanctions and/or serious reputational or financial harm and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. a failure of our computer systems or a compromise of their security could also subject us to regulatory sanctions or other claims, harm our reputation, interrupt our operations and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. in our investments in which we hold a minority interest, including our wachovia securities joint venture, we lack management and operational control over its operations, which may prevent us from taking or causing to be taken actions to protect or increase the value of those investments. we face risks arising from acquisitions, divestitures and restructurings, including client losses, surrenders and withdrawals, difficulties in integrating and realizing the projected results of acquisitions and contingent liabilities with respect to dispositions. we face a number of risks arising from acquisition transactions, including the risk that, following the acquisition or reorganization of a business, we could experience client losses, surrenders or withdrawals or other results materially different from those we anticipate, as well as difficulties in integrating and realizing the projected results of acquisitions and restructurings and managing the litigation and regulatory matters to which acquired entities are party. we have retained insurance or reinsurance obligations and other contingent liabilities in connection with our divestiture or winding down of various businesses, including with respect to the retail securities brokerage and securities clearing operations that we contributed to the joint venture with wachovia corporation, and our reserves for these obligations and liabilities may prove to be inadequate. these risks may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. changes in our discount rate, expected rate of return and expected compensation increase assumptions for our pension and other postretirement benefit plans may result in increased expenses and reduce our profitability. we determine our pension and other postretirement benefit plan costs based on assumed discount rates, expected rates of return on plan assets and expected increases in compensation levels and trends in health care costs. changes in these assumptions may result in increased expenses and reduce our profitability. our ability to pay shareholder dividends, to engage in share repurchases and to meet obligations may be adversely affected by limitations imposed on inter-affiliate distributions and transfers by prudential insurance and our other subsidiaries. prudential financial is the holding company for all our operations, and dividends, returns of capital and interest income from its subsidiaries are the principal source of funds available to prudential financial to pay shareholder dividends, to make share repurchases and to meet its other obligations. these sources of funds are complemented by prudential financial access to the financial markets and bank facilities. as described under business regulation and in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources, our domestic and foreign insurance and various other subsidiary companies, including prudential insurance, are subject to regulatory limitations on the payment of dividends and 56 on other transfers of funds to prudential financial. in addition to these regulatory limitations, the terms of the ihc debt contain restrictions potentially limiting dividends by prudential insurance applicable to the financial services businesses in the event the closed block business is in financial distress and under other circumstances. these restrictions on prudential financial subsidiaries may limit such subsidiaries from making dividend payments to prudential financial in an amount sufficient to fund prudential financial cash requirements and shareholder dividends. from time to time, the national association of insurance commissioners, or naic, and various state and foreign insurance regulators have considered, and may in the future consider, proposals to further limit dividend payments that an insurance company may make without regulatory approval. difficult market conditions also affect our ability to pay shareholder dividends and to engage in share repurchases. we announced on october 9, 2008, that, in light of recent market volatility and extraordinary events and developments affecting financial markets generally, we were suspending purchases of common stock under 2008 existing share repurchase program, effective october 10, 2008. we do not anticipate reinstituting a share repurchase program in 2009. regulatory requirements, provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and our shareholder rights plan could delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that shareholders might consider in their best interests. various states in which our insurance companies are domiciled, including new jersey, must approve any direct or indirect change of control of insurance companies organized in those states. under most states statutes, an entity is presumed to have control of an insurance company if it owns, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of the voting stock of that insurance company or its parent company. federal, and in some cases, state, banking authorities would also have to approve the indirect change of control of our banking operations. the federal securities laws could also require reapproval by customers of our investment advisory contracts to manage mutual funds, including mutual funds included in annuity products, upon a change in control. in addition, the new jersey business corporation act prohibits certain business combinations with interested shareholders. these regulatory and other restrictions may delay a potential merger or sale of prudential financial, even if the board of directors decides that it is in the best interests of shareholders to merge or be sold. prudential financial certificate of incorporation and by-laws also contain provisions that may delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that shareholders might consider in their best interests. these provisions may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock and include: a restriction on the filling of vacancies on the board of directors by shareholders; restrictions on the calling of special meetings by shareholders; a requirement that shareholders may take action without a meeting only by unanimous written consent; advance notice procedures for the nomination of candidates to the board of directors and shareholder proposals to be considered at shareholder meetings; and supermajority voting requirements for the amendment of certain provisions of the certificate of incorporation and by-laws. prudential financial shareholders rights plan also creates obstacles that may delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that shareholders might consider in their best interests. holders of our common stock are subject to risks due to the issuance of our class b stock, a second class of common stock. the businesses of prudential financial are separated into the financial services businesses and the closed block business, and our common stock reflects the performance of the financial services businesses and the class b stock reflects the performance of the closed block business. there are a number of risks to holders of our common stock by virtue of this dual common stock structure, including: even though we allocate all our consolidated assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses and cash flow between the financial services businesses and the closed block business for financial statement purposes, there is no legal separation between the financial services businesses and the closed block business. holders of common stock have no interest in a separate legal entity representing the financial services businesses; holders of the class b stock have no interest in a separate legal entity representing the closed block business; and therefore holders of each class of common stock are subject to all of the risks associated with an investment in the company. 57 the financial results of the closed block business, including debt service on the ihc debt, will affect prudential financial consolidated results of operations, financial position and borrowing costs. the market value of our common stock may not reflect solely the performance of the financial services businesses. we cannot pay cash dividends on our common stock for any period if we choose not to pay dividends on the class b stock in an aggregate amount at least equal to the lesser of the cb distributable cash flow or the target dividend amount on the class b stock for that period. see market for registrant common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities convertibility for the definition of these terms. any net losses of the closed block business, and any dividends or distributions on, or repurchases of the class b stock, would reduce the assets of prudential financial legally available for dividends on the common stock. net income for the financial services businesses and the closed block business includes general and administrative expenses charged to each of the respective businesses based on the company methodology for the allocation of such expenses. cash flows to the financial services businesses from the closed block business related to administrative expenses are determined by a policy servicing fee arrangement that is based upon insurance and policies in force and statutory cash premiums. the difference between the administrative expenses allocated to the closed block business and these cash flow amounts are recorded, on an after tax basis, as direct equity adjustments to the equity balances of the businesses and included in the determination of earnings per share for each business. a change in cash flow amounts between the businesses that is inconsistent with changes in general and administrative expenses we incur will affect the earnings per share of the common stock and class b stock. holders of common stock and class b stock vote together as a single class of common stock under new jersey law, except as otherwise required by law and except that the holders of the class b stock have class voting or consent rights with respect to specified matters directly affecting the class b stock. shares of class b stock are entitled to a higher proportionate amount upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of prudential financial, than shares of common stock. we may exchange the class b stock for shares of common stock at any time, and the class b stock is mandatorily exchangeable in the event of a sale of all or substantially all of the closed block business or a change of control of prudential financial. under these circumstances, shares of class b stock would be exchanged for shares of common stock with an aggregate average market value equal to 120% of the then appraised fair market value of the class b stock. for a description of change of control and fair market value, see market for registrant common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities convertibility. holders of class b stock may at their discretion, beginning in 2016, and at any time in the event of specified regulatory events, convert their shares of class b stock into shares of common stock with an aggregate average market value equal to 100% of the then appraised fair market value of the class b stock. any exchange or conversion could occur at a time when either or both of the common stock and class b stock may be considered overvalued or undervalued. accordingly, any such exchange or conversion may be disadvantageous to holders of common stock. our board of directors has adopted certain policies regarding inter-business transfers and accounting and tax matters, including the allocation of earnings, with respect to the financial services businesses and closed block business. although the board of directors may change any of these policies, any such decision is subject to the board of directors general fiduciary duties, and we have agreed with investors in the class b stock and the insurer of the ihc debt that, in most cases, the board of directors may not change these policies without their consent. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 228 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management, market risk and derivative instruments risk management includes the identification and measurement of various forms of risk, the establishment of risk thresholds and the creation of processes intended to maintain risks within these thresholds while optimizing returns on the underlying assets or liabilities. we consider risk management an integral part of managing our core businesses. market risk is the risk of change in the value of financial instruments as a result of absolute or relative changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, equity prices or commodity prices. to varying degrees, the investment and trading activities supporting all of our products and services generate exposure to market risk. the market risk incurred and our strategies for managing this risk varies by product. with respect to non-variable life insurance products, fixed rate annuities, the fixed rate options in our variable life insurance and annuity products, and other finance businesses, we incur market risk primarily in the form of interest rate risk. we manage this risk through asset/liability management strategies that seek to closely approximate the interest rate sensitivity, but not necessarily the exact cash flow characteristics, of the assets with the estimated interest rate sensitivity of the product liabilities. our overall objective in these strategies is to limit the net change in value of assets and liabilities arising from interest rate movements within the context of market conditions and other relative opportunities. while it is more difficult to measure the interest sensitivity of our insurance liabilities than that of the related assets, to the extent that we can measure such sensitivities we believe that interest rate movements will generate asset value changes that substantially offset changes in the value of the liabilities relating to the underlying products. for variable annuities and variable life insurance products, excluding the fixed rate options in these products, mutual funds and most separate accounts, our main exposure to the market is the risk that asset-based fees decrease as a result of declines in assets under management due to changes in investment prices. we also run the risk that asset management fees calculated by reference to performance could be lower. the risk of decreased asset-based and asset management fees could also impact our estimates of total gross profits used as a basis for amortizing deferred policy acquisition and other costs. while a decrease in our estimates of total gross profits would accelerate amortization and decrease net income in a given period, it would not affect our cash flow or liquidity position. for variable annuity and variable life insurance products with minimum guaranteed death benefits and variable annuity products with living benefits such as guaranteed minimum income, withdrawal, and accumulation benefits, we also face the risk that declines in the value of underlying investments as a result of interest rate, equity market, or market volatility changes may increase our net exposure to the guarantees under these contracts. as part of our risk management strategy, we utilize product design elements such as asset allocation requirements, an automatic rebalancing element and minimum purchase age requirements, in addition to externally purchased hedging instruments such as interest rate and equity based derivatives to hedge or limit our market risk exposure to the benefit features of certain of our variable annuity contracts. these strategies exclude our guaranteed minimum income benefits and guaranteed minimum death benefits, which include risks we have deemed suitable to retain. see note 19 to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of our use of interest rate and equity based derivatives. see note 9 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information about the guaranteed minimum death benefits associated with our variable life and variable annuity contracts, and the guaranteed minimum income, withdrawal, and accumulation benefits associated with the variable annuity contracts we issue. for a discussion of asset-based fees associated with our variable life products and our variable annuity contracts, our estimates of total gross profits used as a basis for amortizing deferred policy acquisition and other costs, and the impact of our guaranteed minimum death and other benefits on the results of our individual life and individual annuities segments, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations results of operations for financial services businesses by segment u.s. individual life and group insurance division individual life and management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations results of operations for financial services businesses by segment u.s. retirement solutions and investment management division individual annuities. 228 in addition, certain products supported by general account investments expose us to the risk that changes in interest rates will reduce the spread between the amounts that we are required to pay under the contracts and the rate of return we are able to earn on our general account investments supporting the contracts. market fluctuations or changes in market conditions could also cause a change in consumer sentiment adversely affecting sales and persistency of our long-term savings, protection and other investment products. for additional information regarding the potential impacts of interest rate and other market fluctuations as well as general economic and market conditions on our businesses and profitability see item 1a. risk factors. the sources of our exposure to market risk can be divided into two categories, other than trading activities conducted primarily in our insurance and annuity operations, and trading activities conducted primarily in our derivatives trading operations. as part of our management of both other than trading and trading market risks, we use a variety of risk management tools and techniques. these include sensitivity and value-at-risk, or var, measures, position and other limits based on type of risk, and various hedging methods. other than trading activities we hold the majority of our assets for other than trading activities in our segments that offer insurance, retirement and annuities products. we incorporate asset/liability management techniques and other risk management policies and limits into the process of investing our assets. we use derivatives for hedging and other purposes in the asset/liability management process. insurance and annuities products asset/liability management we seek to maintain interest rate and equity exposures within established ranges, which we periodically adjust based on market conditions and the design of related products sold to customers. our risk managers establish investment risk limits for exposures to any issuer, geographic region, type of security or industry sector and oversee efforts to manage interest rate and equity exposure risk, as well as credit, liquidity and other risks, all within policy constraints set by management and approved by the investment committee of the board of directors. for additional information regarding the management of our general account investments and our asset mix strategies, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations realized investment gains and losses and general account investments general account investments management of investments. we use duration and convexity analyses to measure price sensitivity to interest rate changes. duration measures the relative sensitivity of the fair value of a financial instrument to changes in interest rates. convexity measures the rate of change of duration with respect to changes in interest rates. we seek to manage our interest rate exposure by legal entity by matching the relative sensitivity of asset and liability values to interest rate changes, or controlling duration mismatch of assets and liabilities. we have target duration mismatch constraints by segment for each insurance entity. in certain markets, primarily outside the u.s., capital market limitations that hinder our ability to closely approximate the duration of some of our liabilities are considered in setting the constraint limits. as of december 31, 2008 and 2007, the difference between the pre-tax duration of assets and the target duration of liabilities in our duration managed portfolios was within our constraint limits. we consider risk-based capital and tax implications as well as current market conditions in our asset/liability management strategies. we also perform portfolio stress testing as part of our u.s. regulatory cash flow and stress scenario testing for major product lines that are subject to risk from changes in interest rates. in this testing, we evaluate the impact of altering our interest-sensitive assumptions under various adverse interest rate environments. these interest-sensitive assumptions relate to the timing and amount of redemptions and prepayments of fixed-income securities and lapses and surrenders of insurance products and the potential impact of any guaranteed minimum interest rates. we evaluate any shortfalls that this cash flow testing reveals to determine if we need to increase statutory reserves or adjust portfolio management strategies. 229 market risk related to interest rates our other than trading assets that subject us to interest rate risk include primarily fixed maturity securities, commercial mortgage and other loans and policy loans. in the aggregate, the carrying value of these assets represented 73% of our consolidated assets, other than assets that we held in separate accounts, as of december 31, 2008 and 76% as of december 31, 2007. with respect to other than trading liabilities, we are exposed to interest rate risk through policyholder account balances relating to interest-sensitive life insurance, annuity and other investment-type contracts, collectively referred to as investment contracts, and through outstanding short-term and long-term debt. we assess interest rate sensitivity for other than trading financial assets, financial liabilities and derivatives using hypothetical test scenarios that assume either upward or downward 100 basis point parallel shifts in the yield curve from prevailing interest rates, reflecting changes in either credit spreads or the risk-free rate. the following tables set forth the net estimated potential loss in fair value from a hypothetical 100 basis point upward shift as of december 31, 2008 and 2007, because this scenario results in the greatest net exposure to interest rate risk of the hypothetical scenarios tested at those dates. while the test scenario is for illustrative purposes only and does not reflect our expectations regarding future interest rates or the performance of fixed-income markets, it is a near-term, reasonably possible hypothetical change that illustrates the potential impact of such events. these test scenarios do not measure the changes in value that could result from non-parallel shifts in the yield curve, which we would expect to produce different changes in discount rates for different maturities. as a result, the actual loss in fair value from a 100 basis point change in interest rates could be different from that indicated by these calculations. notional amount of derivatives as of december 31, 2008 hypothetical change in fair value fair value hypothetical fair value after + 100 basis point parallel yield curve shift (in millions) financial assets with interest rate risk: fixed maturities(1) $ 174,724 $ 163,212 $ (11,512 ) commercial mortgage and other loans 30,570 29,474 (1,096 ) policy loans 11,833 10,981 (852 ) derivatives: swaps $ 92,094 1,855 393 (1,462 ) futures 7,345 (50 ) (301 ) (251 ) options 5,371 1,895 1,758 (137 ) forwards 9,996 (143 ) (188 ) (45 ) variable annuity and other living benefit feature embedded derivatives(2) (3,229 ) (2,255 ) 974 financial liabilities with interest rate risk: short-term and long-term debt (27,051 ) (25,227 ) 1,824 debt of consolidated variable interest entities(3) (167 ) (167 ) investment contracts (69,933 ) (67,882 ) 2,051 bank customer liabilities (1,354 ) (1,347 ) 7 net estimated potential loss $ (10,499 ) 230 notional amount of derivatives as of december 31, 2007 hypothetical change in fair value fair value hypothetical fair value after + 100 basis point parallel yield curve shift (in millions) financial assets with interest rate risk: fixed maturities(1) $ 179,940 $ 169,374 $ (10,566 ) commercial mortgage and other loans 30,621 29,371 (1,250 ) policy loans 10,751 10,055 (696 ) derivatives: swaps $ 59,132 (524 ) (944 ) (420 ) futures 4,812 (7 ) 19 26 options 4,759 627 557 (70 ) forwards 8,851 72 71 (1 ) variable annuity and other living benefit feature embedded derivatives(2) (168 ) 17 185 financial liabilities with interest rate risk: short-term and long-term debt (29,737 ) (28,597 ) 1,140 debt of consolidated variable interest entities(3) (445 ) (445 ) investment contracts (65,868 ) (64,624 ) 1,244 bank customer liabilities (1,334 ) (1,329 ) 5 net estimated potential loss $ (10,403 ) (1) includes trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities and other fixed maturities classified as trading securities under u.s. gaap, but are held for other than trading activities in our segments that offer insurance, retirement and annuities products. (2) the hypothetical change in fair value related to our variable annuity and other living benefit feature embedded derivatives reflects only the gross fair value change on the embedded derivatives, and excludes any offsetting impact of derivative instruments purchased to hedge such changes in fair value. (3) included in other liabilities together with all liabilities of consolidated variable interest entities. see note 4 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding consolidated variable interest entities. the tables above do not include approximately $152 billion of insurance reserve and deposit liabilities as of december 31, 2008 and $130 billion as of december 31, 2007 which are not considered financial liabilities. we believe that the interest rate sensitivities of these insurance liabilities would serve as an offset to the net interest rate risk of the financial assets and liabilities, including investment contracts, which are set forth in these tables. our net estimated potential loss in fair value as of december 31, 2008 increased $96 million from december 31, 2007. the estimated changes in fair values of our financial assets shown above relate primarily to assets invested to support our insurance liabilities, but do not include separate account assets associated with products for which investment risk is borne primarily by the separate account contractholders rather than by us. market risk related to equity prices we actively manage investment equity price risk against benchmarks in respective markets. we benchmark our return on equity holdings against a blend of market indices, mainly the s&amp;p 500 and russell 2000 for u.s. equities. for foreign equities we benchmark against the tokyo price index, or topix, and the msci eafe, a market index of european, australian, and far eastern equities. we target price sensitivities that approximate those of the benchmark indices. we estimate our investment equity price risk from a hypothetical 10% decline in equity benchmark market levels and measure this risk in terms of the decline in fair market value of equity securities we hold. using this methodology, our estimated investment equity price risk as of december 31, 2008 was $680 million, representing a hypothetical decline in fair market value of equity securities we held at that date from $6.803 billion to $6.123 billion. our estimated investment equity price risk using this methodology as of december 31, 2007 was $958 million, representing a hypothetical decline in fair market value of equity securities we held at that date from $9.580 billion to $8.622 billion. in calculating these amounts, we exclude separate account equity securities related to products for which the investment risk is borne primarily by the separate account contractholder rather than by us. 231 in addition to equity securities, as indicated above, we hold equity-based derivatives primarily to hedge the equity price risk embedded in the living benefit features in some of our variable annuity products. as of december 31, 2008, our equity-based derivatives had notional values of $7.306 billion, and were reported at fair value as a $1.908 billion asset, and the living benefit features accounted for as derivatives were reported at fair value as a $3.229 billion liability. as of december 31, 2007, our equity-based derivatives had notional values of $4.615 billion, and were reported at fair value as a $617 million asset, and the living benefits features accounted for as derivatives were reported at fair value as a $168 million liability. our estimated equity price risk associated with the equity-based derivatives, net of the related living benefit features, was less than $10 million as of both december 31, 2008 and 2007, estimated based on a hypothetical 10% decline in equity benchmark market levels. while these scenarios are for illustrative purposes only and do not reflect our expectations regarding future performance of equity markets or of our equity portfolio, they represent near term reasonably possible hypothetical changes that illustrate the potential impact of such events. these scenarios consider only the direct impact on fair value of declines in equity benchmark market levels and not changes in asset-based fees recognized as revenue, changes in our estimates of total gross profits used as a basis for amortizing deferred policy acquisition and other costs, or changes in any other assumptions such as market volatility or mortality, utilization or persistency rates in our variable annuity contracts that could also impact the fair value of our living benefit features. in addition, these scenarios do not reflect the impact of basis risk, such as potential differences in the performance of the investment funds underlying the variable annuity products relative to the market indices we use as a basis for developing our hedging strategy. the impact of basis risk could result in larger differences between the change in fair value of the equity-based derivatives and the related living benefit features, in comparison to the scenarios above. market risk related to foreign currency exchange rates we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk in our domestic general account investment portfolios, other proprietary investment portfolios and through our operations in foreign countries and foreign currency liability issuances. our exposure to foreign currency risk within the domestic general account investment portfolios supporting our u.s. insurance operations and other domestic proprietary investment portfolios arises primarily from investments that are denominated in foreign currencies. we generally hedge substantially all domestic general account foreign currency-denominated fixed-income investments and other domestic proprietary foreign currency investments into u.s. dollars in order to mitigate the risk that the cash flows or fair value of these investments fluctuates as a result of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. we generally do not hedge all of the foreign currency risk of our investments in equity securities of unaffiliated foreign entities. our operations in foreign countries create the following three additional sources of foreign currency risk: first, we reflect the operating results of our foreign operations in our financial statements based on the average exchange rates prevailing during the period. we hedge some of these foreign currency operating results as part of our overall risk management strategy. we generally hedge our anticipated exposure to adjusted operating income fluctuations resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates relating to our international operations primarily in japan, korea, taiwan and europe. second, we translate our equity investment in foreign operations into u.s. dollars using the foreign currency exchange rate at the financial statement period-end date. to mitigate potential losses due to fluctuations in these exchange rates, for our equity investments in our international operations other than in japan and taiwan, we generally hedge a significant portion of this exposure through the use of foreign currency forward contracts. for our equity investments in our japanese and taiwanese operations, we generally hedge this exposure through a combination of issuing foreign denominated liabilities outside these operations and by holding u.s. dollar denominated securities in the investment portfolios of these operations. third, our international insurance operations may hold investments denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of those operations on an unhedged basis in addition to the aforementioned equity hedges resulting from foreign subsidiaries investing in u.s. dollar denominated investments. most significantly, our japanese operations hold u.s. dollar denominated investments in their investment 232 portfolios in excess of our equity investment in such operations. for a discussion of our japanese operations u.s. dollar denominated investment holdings, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations realized investment gains and losses and general account investments general account investments portfolio composition, and management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations results of operations for financial services businesses by segment international insurance and investments division. we manage our investment foreign currency exchange rate risks, described above, within specified limits. foreign currency exchange risks for our domestic general account investment portfolio and the unhedged portion of our equity investment in foreign subsidiaries are managed using var-based analysis. this statistical technique estimates, at a specified confidence level, the potential pre-tax loss in portfolio market value that could occur over an assumed time horizon due to adverse market movements. the estimated var as of december 31, 2008 for foreign currency exchange risks in our domestic general account portfolio and the unhedged portion of equity investment in foreign subsidiaries, measured at a 95% confidence level and using a one-month time horizon, was $108 million, representing a hypothetical decline in fair market value of these foreign currency assets from $1.033 billion to $925 million. the estimated var as of december 31, 2007 for foreign currency exchange risks in our domestic general account portfolio and the unhedged portion of equity investment in foreign subsidiaries, measured at a 95% confidence level and using a one-month time horizon, was $46 million, representing a hypothetical decline in fair market value of these foreign currency assets from $1.798 billion to $1.752 billion. the average var for foreign currency exchange risks in our domestic general account portfolio and the unhedged portion of equity investment in foreign subsidiaries, measured monthly at a 95% confidence level over a one month time horizon, was $70 million during 2008 and $35 million during 2007. these calculations use historical price volatilities and correlation data at a 95% confidence level. we discuss limitations of var models below. the estimated var for instruments used to hedge our anticipated exposure to adjusted operating income fluctuations resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates relating to our international operations, measured at a 95% confidence level and using a one-month time horizon, was $148 million as of december 31, 2008 and $73 million as of december 31, 2007. the increased var for foreign currency exchange risks primarily reflects increased volatility in exchange rates for japanese yen and korean won. derivatives derivatives are financial instruments whose values are derived from interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, financial indices, or the prices of securities or commodities. derivative financial instruments may be exchange-traded or contracted in the over-the-counter market and include swaps, futures, options and forward contracts. we are also a party to financial instruments that may contain derivative instruments that are embedded in the financial instruments. see note 19 to the consolidated financial statements for a description of our derivative activities as of december 31, 2008 and 2007. under insurance statutes, our insurance companies may use derivative financial instruments to hedge actual or anticipated changes in their assets or liabilities, to replicate cash market instruments or for certain income-generating activities. these statutes generally prohibit the use of derivatives for speculative purposes. we use derivative financial instruments primarily to seek to reduce market risk from changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, as well as equity prices, and to alter interest rate or foreign currency exposures arising from mismatches between assets and liabilities. in addition, we use derivative financial instruments to mitigate risk associated with some of our benefit features of our variable annuity contracts. the notional amount of derivative instruments increased $37 billion in 2008, from $78 billion as of december 31, 2007 to $115 billion as of december 31, 2008, driven by an increase in interest rate derivatives, primarily due to an increase in duration management and variable annuity hedging activities. we use credit derivatives to enhance the return on our investment portfolio by creating credit exposure similar to an investment in public fixed maturity cash instruments, and in limited instances purchase credit protection using credit derivatives in order to hedge specific credit exposures in our investment portfolio. for additional information regarding our exposure to credit derivatives, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations realized investment gains and losses and general account investments general account investments fixed maturity securities credit derivative exposure to public fixed maturities. 233 trading activities we engage in trading activities primarily in connection with our derivatives trading operations. we maintain trading positions in various foreign exchange instruments and commodities, primarily to facilitate transactions for our clients. market risk affects the values of our trading positions through fluctuations in absolute or relative interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, securities and commodity prices. we seek to use short security positions and forwards, futures, options and other derivatives to limit exposure to interest rate and other market risks. we also trade derivative financial instruments that allow our clients to manage exposure to interest rate, currency and other market risks. our derivative transactions involve both exchange-listed and over-the-counter contracts and are generally short-term in duration. we act both as a broker, buying and selling exchange-listed contracts for our customers, and as a dealer, by entering into futures and security transactions as a principal. as a broker, we assume counterparty and credit risks that we seek to mitigate by using margin or other credit enhancements and by establishing trading limits and credit lines. as a dealer, we are subject to market risk as well as counterparty and credit risk. we manage the market risk associated with trading activities through hedging activities and formal policies, risk and position limits, counterparty and credit limits, daily position monitoring, and other forms of risk management. in the second quarter of 2007, the company announced its decision to exit the equity sales, trading and research operations of the prudential equity group. see note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. value-at-risk var is one of the tools we use to monitor and manage our exposure to the market risk of our trading activities. we calculate a var that encompasses our trading activities using a 95% confidence level. the var method incorporates the risk factors to which the market value of our trading activities is exposed, which consist of interest rates, including credit spreads, foreign currency exchange rates, and commodity prices, estimates of volatilities from historical data, the sensitivity of our trading activities to changes in those market factors and the correlations of those factors. the total var for our trading activities, which considers our combined exposure to interest rate risk, foreign currency exchange rate risk, and commodities price risk, expressed in terms of adverse changes to fair value at a 95% confidence level over a one-day time horizon, was $1 million as of december 31, 2008 and $1 million as of december 31, 2007. the largest component of this total var as of december 31, 2008 and 2007 was related to commodities price risk. the total average daily var for our trading activities considering our exposure to interest rate risk, foreign currency exchange rate risk, and commodities price risk, expressed in terms of adverse changes to fair value with a 95% confidence level over a one-day time horizon, was $1 million during 2008 and $1 million during 2007. the largest component of both periods total average daily var was related to commodities price risk. limitations of var models although var models are a recognized tool for risk management, they have inherent limitations, including reliance on historical data that may not be indicative of future market conditions or trading patterns. accordingly, var models should not be viewed as a predictor of future results. we may incur losses that could be materially in excess of the amounts indicated by the models on a particular trading day or over a period of time, and there have been instances when results have fallen outside the values generated by our var models. a var model does not estimate the greatest possible loss. the results of these models and analysis thereof are subject to the judgment of our risk management personnel. 234risk factors 42 risk factors you should carefully consider the following risks. these risks could materially affect our business, results of operations or financial condition, cause the trading price of our common stock to decline materially or cause our actual results to differ materially from those expected or those expressed in any forward looking statements made by or on behalf of the company. these risks are not exclusive, and additional risks to which we are subject include, but are not limited to, the factors mentioned under forward-looking statements above and the risks of our businesses described elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k. some of our businesses and our results of operations were materially adversely affected by adverse conditions in the global financial markets and adverse economic conditions generally that began in the second half of 2007 and continued into 2009. our businesses, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected, possibly materially, if these conditions recur or current market or economic conditions deteriorate. our results of operations were materially adversely affected by adverse conditions in the global financial markets and the economy generally, both in the u.s. and elsewhere around the world that began in the second half of 2007 and continued into 2009. the global financial markets experienced extreme stress. volatility and disruption in the global financial markets reached unprecedented levels for the post world war ii period. the availability and cost of credit were materially affected. these factors, combined with economic conditions in the u.s., including depressed home and commercial real estate prices and increasing foreclosures, falling equity market values, declining business and consumer confidence and rising unemployment, precipitated a severe economic recession and fears of even more severe and prolonged adverse economic conditions. due to the economic environment, the global fixed-income markets experienced both extreme volatility and limited market liquidity conditions, which affected a broad range of asset classes and sectors. as a result, the market for fixed income instruments experienced decreased liquidity, increased price volatility, credit downgrade events, and increased probability of default. global equity markets also experienced heightened volatility. these events had and, to the extent they persist or recur, may have an adverse effect on us. our revenues are likely to decline in such circumstances, the cost of meeting our obligations to our customers may increase, and our profit margins would likely erode. in addition, in the event of a prolonged or severe economic downturn, we could incur significant losses in our investment portfolio. the demand for our products could be adversely affected in an economic downturn characterized by higher unemployment, lower family income, lower consumer spending, lower corporate earnings and lower business investment. we also may experience a higher incidence of claims and lapses or surrenders of policies. our policyholders may choose to defer or stop paying insurance premiums. we cannot predict definitively whether or when such actions, which could impact our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, may occur. beginning in the second half of 2007 and continuing into 2009, markets in the united states and elsewhere experienced extreme and unprecedented volatility and disruption, with adverse consequences to our liquidity, access to capital and cost of capital. a recurrence of market conditions such as those we recently experienced may significantly affect our ability to meet liquidity needs, our access to capital and our cost of capital, including capital that may be required by our subsidiaries. under such conditions, we may seek additional debt or equity capital but be unable to obtain such. adverse capital market conditions have affected and may affect in the future the availability and cost of borrowed funds and could impact our ability to refinance existing borrowings, thereby ultimately impacting our 42 table of contents profitability and ability to support or grow our businesses. we need liquidity to pay our operating expenses, interest on our debt and dividends on our capital stock and replace certain maturing debt obligations. without sufficient liquidity, we could be forced to curtail certain of our operations, and our business could suffer. the principal sources of our liquidity are insurance premiums, annuity considerations, deposit funds and cash flow from our investment portfolio and assets, consisting mainly of cash or assets that are readily convertible into cash. sources of liquidity in normal markets also include a variety of short- and long-term instruments, including securities lending and repurchase agreements, commercial paper, medium and long-term debt and capital securities. disruptions, uncertainty and volatility in the financial markets limited and, to the extent they persist or recur, may limit in the future our access to capital required to operate our business, most significantly our insurance and annuities operations. these market conditions may in the future limit our ability to replace, in a timely manner, maturing debt obligations and access the capital necessary to grow our business, replace capital withdrawn by customers or raise new capital required by our subsidiaries as a result of volatility in the markets. as a result, under such conditions we may be forced to delay raising capital, issue shorter tenor securities than would be optimal, bear an unattractive cost of capital or be unable to raise capital at any price, which could decrease our profitability and significantly reduce our financial flexibility. actions we might take to access financing may in turn cause rating agencies to reevaluate our ratings. our ability to borrow under our commercial paper programs is also dependent upon market conditions. future deterioration of our capital position at a time when we are unable to access the long-term debt or commercial paper markets could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. our internal sources of liquidity may prove to be insufficient. we may seek additional debt or equity financing to satisfy our needs. the availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the overall availability of credit to the financial services industry, and our credit ratings and credit capacity. we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. further, any future equity offerings would dilute the ownership interest of existing shareholders. the risk based capital, or rbc, ratio is a primary measure by which we evaluate the capital adequacy of prudential insurance, which includes businesses in both the financial services businesses and the closed block business. we have managed prudential insurance rbc ratio to a level consistent with a aa ratings objective; however, rating agencies take into account a variety of factors in assigning ratings to our insurance subsidiaries in addition to rbc levels. rbc is determined by statutory rules that consider risks related to the type and quality of the invested assets, insurance-related risks associated with prudential insurance products, interest rate risks and general business risks. the rbc ratio calculations are intended to assist insurance regulators in measuring the adequacy of prudential insurance statutory capitalization. in addition, rbc ratios may also impact our credit and claims paying ratings. we estimate that as of december 31, 2009 the rbc for prudential insurance and our other domestic life insurance subsidiaries would exceed the minimum level required by applicable insurance regulations. disruptions in the capital markets could adversely affect prudential financial and its subsidiaries ability to access sources of liquidity, as well as threaten to reduce our capital below a level that is consistent with our existing ratings objectives. therefore, we may need to take actions, which may include but are not limited to: (1) further access external sources of capital, including the debt or equity markets, as noted above; (2) reduce or eliminate future shareholder dividends on our common stock; (3) utilize further proceeds from our outstanding retail medium term notes for general corporate purposes by accelerating repayments of additional funding agreements from prudential insurance; (4) undertake additional capital management activities, including reinsurance transactions; (5) transfer ownership of certain subsidiaries of prudential financial to prudential insurance; (6) take additional actions related to derivatives; (7) limit or curtail sales of certain products and/or restructure existing products; (8) undertake further asset sales or internal asset transfers; and (9) seek temporary or permanent changes to regulatory rules. certain of these actions may require regulatory approval and/or agreement of counterparties which are outside of our control or have economic costs associated with them. we maintain committed unsecured revolving credit facilities that, as of december 31, 2009, totaled $4.34 billion. we rely on these credit facilities as a potential source of liquidity which could be critical in enabling us to meet our obligations as they come due, particularly during periods when alternative sources of liquidity are 43 table of contents limited such as in the recent market environment. our ability to borrow under these facilities is conditioned on our satisfaction of covenants and other requirements contained in the facilities, such as prudential insurance maintenance of total adjusted capital of at least $5.5 billion based on statutory accounting principles prescribed under new jersey law and prudential financial maintenance of consolidated net worth of at least $12.5 billion, which for this purpose is based on u.s. gaap stockholders equity, excluding net unrealized gains and losses on investments. our failure to satisfy these and other requirements contained in the credit facilities would restrict our access to the facilities when needed and, consequently, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. our asset management operations include real estate held in prudential insurance separate accounts, for the benefit of clients, which enter into forward commitments which typically are funded from separate account assets and cash flows and related funding sources. owing to the recent adverse credit and real estate capital market conditions, which have also impacted fund liquidity, these separate accounts could experience challenges funding commitments in the normal course. in that case, prudential insurance might be called upon or required to provide interim funding solutions, which could affect the availability of liquidity for other purposes. market fluctuations and general economic, market and political conditions may adversely affect our business and profitability. even under relatively favorable market conditions, our insurance and annuities products and certain of our investment products, as well as our investment returns and our access to and cost of financing, are sensitive to fixed income, equity, real estate and other market fluctuations and general economic, market and political conditions. these fluctuations and conditions could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and liquidity, including in the following respects: the profitability of many of our insurance and annuities products depends in part on the value of the separate accounts supporting these products, which fluctuate substantially depending on the foregoing conditions. market conditions resulting in reductions in the value of assets we manage have an adverse effect on the revenues and profitability of our asset management services, which depend on fees related primarily to the value of assets under management, and could further decrease the value of our proprietary investments. a change in market conditions, including prolonged periods of high inflation, could cause a change in consumer sentiment adversely affecting sales and persistency of our long-term savings and protection products. similarly, changing economic conditions and unfavorable public perception of financial institutions can influence customer behavior, including but not limited to increasing claims in certain product lines. sales of our investment-based and asset management products and services may decline, and lapses and surrenders of variable life and annuity products and withdrawals of assets from other investment products may increase if a market downturn, increased market volatility or other market conditions result in customers becoming dissatisfied with their investments or products. a market decline could further result in guaranteed minimum benefits contained in many of our variable annuity products being higher than current account values or our pricing assumptions would support, requiring us to materially increase reserves for such products and may cause customers to retain contracts in force in order to benefit from the guarantees, thereby increasing their cost to us. our valuation of the liabilities for the minimum benefits contained in many of our variable annuity products requires us to consider the market perception of our risk of non-performance, and a decrease in our own credit spreads resulting from ratings upgrades or other events or market conditions could cause the recorded value of these liabilities to increase, which in turn could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. market conditions determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection we purchase. accordingly, we may be forced to incur additional expenses for reinsurance or may not be able to obtain sufficient reinsurance on acceptable terms which could adversely affect the profitability of future business or our willingness to write future business. 44 table of contents hedging instruments we hold to manage foreign exchange, product, and other risks might not perform as intended or expected resulting in higher realized losses and unforeseen cash needs. market conditions can limit availability of hedging instruments and also further increase the cost of executing product related hedges and such costs may not be recovered in the pricing of the underlying products being hedged. our hedging strategies rely on the performance of counterparties to such hedges. these counterparties may fail to perform for various reasons resulting in unhedged exposures and losses on uncollateralized positions. we have significant investment and derivative portfolios, including but not limited to corporate and asset-backed securities, equities and commercial real estate. economic conditions as well as adverse capital market conditions, including but not limited to a lack of buyers in the marketplace, volatility, credit spread changes, benchmark interest rate changes, and declines in value of underlying collateral will impact the credit quality, liquidity and value of our investments and derivatives, potentially resulting in higher capital charges and unrealized or realized losses, the latter especially if we were to need to sell a significant amount of investments under such conditions. for example, a widening of credit spreads increases the net unrealized loss position of our investment portfolio and may ultimately result in increased realized losses. values of our investments and derivatives can also be impacted by reductions in price transparency, changes in assumptions or inputs we use in estimating fair value and changes in investor confidence and preferences, potentially resulting in higher realized or unrealized losses. volatility can make it difficult to value certain of our securities if trading becomes less frequent. valuations may include assumptions or estimates that may have significant period to period changes which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition and in certain cases under u.s. gaap such period to period changes in the value of investments are not recognized in our results of operations or consolidated statements of financial condition. opportunities for investment of available funds, including proceeds received from the sale of the company interest in the wachovia securities (wells fargo advisors) retail brokerage joint venture, at appropriate returns may be limited, with a possible negative impact on our overall results. regardless of market conditions, certain investments we hold, including private bonds and commercial mortgages, are relatively illiquid. if we needed to sell these investments, we may have difficulty doing so in a timely manner at a price that we could otherwise realize. fluctuations in our operating results and the impact on our investment portfolio may impact the company tax profile and its ability to optimally utilize tax attributes. interest rate fluctuations could adversely affect our businesses and profitability. our insurance and annuities products and certain of our investment products, and our investment returns, are sensitive to interest rate fluctuations, and changes in interest rates could adversely affect our investment returns and results of operations, including in the following respects: some of our products expose us to the risk that changes in interest rates will reduce the spread between the amounts that we are required to pay under the contracts and the rate of return we are able to earn on our general account investments supporting the contracts. when interest rates decline, we have to reinvest the cash income from our investments in lower yielding instruments. since many of our policies and contracts have guaranteed minimum interest or crediting rates or limit the resetting of interest rates, the spreads could decrease and potentially become negative. when interest rates rise, we may not be able to replace the assets in our general account with the higher yielding assets needed to fund the higher crediting rates necessary to keep these products and contracts competitive. this risk is heightened in market and economic conditions such as we have recently experienced, in which many desired securities may be unavailable. changes in interest rates may reduce net investment income and thus our spread income which is a substantial portion of our profitability. changes in interest rates can also result in potential losses in our investment activities in which we borrow funds and purchase investments to earn additional spread income on the borrowed funds. a decline in market interest rates could also reduce our returns from investment of equity. 45 table of contents when interest rates rise, policy loans and surrenders and withdrawals of life insurance policies and annuity contracts may increase as policyholders seek to buy products with perceived higher returns, requiring us to sell investment assets potentially resulting in realized investment losses, or requiring us to accelerate the amortization of dac or voba (both defined below). a decline in interest rates accompanied by unexpected prepayments of certain investments could result in reduced investments and a decline in our profitability. an increase in interest rates accompanied by unexpected extensions of certain lower yielding investments could result in a decline in our profitability. changes in the relationship between long-term and short-term interest rates could adversely affect the profitability of some of our products. changes in interest rates could increase our costs of financing. our mitigation efforts with respect to interest rate risk are primarily focused on maintaining an investment portfolio with diversified maturities that has a weighted average duration that is approximately equal to the duration of our estimated liability cash flow profile. however, there are practical and capital market limitations on our ability to accomplish this, especially in some of our asian operations, and our estimate of the liability cash flow profile may be inaccurate. due to these and other factors we may need to liquidate investments prior to maturity at a loss in order to satisfy liabilities or be forced to reinvest funds in a lower rate environment. although we take measures to manage the economic risks of investing in a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to effectively mitigate, and may choose based on factors, including economic considerations, not to fully mitigate, the interest rate risk of our assets relative to our liabilities. if our reserves for future policyholder benefits and claims are inadequate, we may be required to increase our reserves, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we establish and carry reserves to pay future policyholder benefits and claims. our reserves do not represent an exact calculation of liability, but rather are actuarial or statistical estimates based on models that include many assumptions and projections which are inherently uncertain and involve the exercise of significant judgment, including as to the levels of and/or timing of receipt or payment of premiums, benefits, claims, expenses, interest credits, investment results (including equity market returns), retirement, mortality, morbidity and persistency. we cannot determine with precision the ultimate amounts that we will pay for, or the timing of payment of, actual benefits, claims and expenses or whether the assets supporting our policy liabilities, together with future premiums, will be sufficient for payment of benefits and claims. if we conclude that our reserves, together with future premiums, are insufficient to cover future policy benefits and claims, we would be required to increase our reserves and incur income statement charges for the period in which we make the determination, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. for certain of our products, market performance and interest rates impact the level of statutory reserves and statutory capital we are required to hold, and may have an adverse effect on returns on capital associated with these products. for example, equity market declines in the fourth quarter of 2008 caused a significant increase in the level of statutory reserves and statutory capital we are required to hold in relation to our individual annuities business. capacity for reserve funding structures available in the marketplace may be limited as a result of market conditions generally. our ability to efficiently manage capital and economic reserve levels may be impacted, thereby impacting profitability and return on capital. our profitability may decline if mortality rates, morbidity rates or persistency rates differ significantly from our pricing expectations. we set prices for many of our insurance and annuity products based upon expected claims and payment patterns, using assumptions for mortality rates, or likelihood of death, and morbidity rates, or likelihood of sickness, of our policyholders. in addition to the potential effect of natural or man-made disasters, significant changes in mortality or morbidity could emerge gradually over time, due to changes in the natural environment, the health habits of the insured population, treatment patterns for disease or disability, the economic environment, or other factors. pricing of our insurance and deferred annuity products are also based in part upon 46 table of contents expected persistency of these products, which is the probability that a policy or contract will remain in force from one period to the next. persistency within our individual annuities business may be significantly impacted by the value of guaranteed minimum benefits contained in many of our variable annuity products being higher than current account values in light of equity market declines. results may also vary based on differences between actual and expected premium deposits and withdrawals for these products. the development of a secondary market for life insurance, including life settlements or viaticals and investor owned life insurance, and to a lesser extent third-party investor strategies in the annuities market, could adversely affect the profitability of existing business and our pricing assumptions for new business. significant deviations in actual experience from our pricing assumptions could have an adverse effect on the profitability of our products. although some of our products permit us to increase premiums or adjust other charges and credits during the life of the policy or contract, the adjustments permitted under the terms of the policies or contracts may not be sufficient to maintain profitability. many of our products do not permit us to increase premiums or adjust other charges and credits or limit those adjustments during the life of the policy or contract. we may be required to accelerate the amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs, or dac, or valuation of business acquired, or voba, or recognize impairment in the value of our goodwill or certain investments, or be required to establish a valuation allowance against deferred income tax assets, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. deferred policy acquisition costs, or dac, represent the costs that vary with and are related primarily to the acquisition of new and renewal insurance and annuity contracts, and we amortize these costs over the expected lives of the contracts. valuation of business acquired, or voba, represents the present value of future profits embedded in acquired insurance, annuity and investment-type contracts and is amortized over the expected effective lives of the acquired contracts. management, on an ongoing basis, tests the dac and voba recorded on our balance sheet to determine if these amounts are recoverable under current assumptions. in addition, we regularly review the estimates and assumptions underlying dac and voba for those products for which we amortize dac and voba in proportion to gross profits or gross margins. given changes in facts and circumstances, these tests and reviews could lead to reductions in dac and/or voba that could have an adverse effect on the results of our operations and our financial condition. significant or sustained equity market declines as well as investment losses could result in acceleration of amortization of the dac and voba related to variable annuity and variable universal life contracts, resulting in a charge to income. goodwill represents the excess of the amounts we paid to acquire subsidiaries and other businesses over the fair value of their net assets at the date of acquisition. goodwill is assessed annually for potential impairment, or more frequently if conditions warrant, by comparing the carrying value (equity attributed to a business to support its risk) of a business to its estimated fair value at that date. as of december 31, 2009, we had a goodwill balance of $709 million, including $444 million related to our retirement reporting unit, $242 million related to our asset management reporting unit and $23 million related to our international insurance reporting unit. further market declines or other events impacting the fair value of these businesses, or increases in the level of equity required to support these businesses, could result in goodwill impairments, resulting in a charge to income. as of december 31, 2009, we had operating equity method investments primarily within our international investments business, of $325 million. declines in the fair value of these investments may require that we review the remaining carrying value of these investments for potential impairment, and such review could result in impairments and charges to income. deferred income tax represents the tax effect of the differences between the book and tax basis of assets and liabilities. deferred tax assets are assessed periodically by management to determine if they are realizable. factors in management determination include the performance of the business including the ability to generate capital gains from a variety of sources and tax planning strategies. if based on available information, it is more likely than not that the deferred income tax asset will not be realized then a valuation allowance must be established with a corresponding charge to net income. such charges could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. 47 table of contents our valuation of fixed maturity, equity and trading securities may include methodologies, estimations and assumptions that are subject to differing interpretations and could result in changes to investment valuations that may materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. during periods of market disruption, it may be difficult to value certain of our securities, such as sub-prime mortgage backed securities, if trading becomes less frequent and/or market data becomes less observable. there are and may continue to be cases where certain asset classes that were in active markets with significant observable data have become inactive or for which data becomes unobservable due to the current financial environment or market conditions. as a result, valuations may include inputs and assumptions that are less observable or require greater estimation and judgment as well as valuation methods which are more complex. these values may not be ultimately realizable in a market transaction, and such values may change very rapidly as market conditions change and valuation assumptions are modified. decreases in value may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. the decision on whether to record an other-than-temporary impairment or write-down is determined in part by management assessment of the financial condition and prospects of a particular issuer, projections of future cash flows and recoverability of the particular security. management conclusions on such assessments are highly judgmental and include assumptions and projections of future cash flows which may ultimately prove to be incorrect as assumptions, facts and circumstances change. for a discussion of certain fixed maturity securities where the estimated fair value has declined and remained below amortized cost by more than 20%, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations realized investment gains and losses and general account investments unrealized losses from fixed maturity securities. we have experienced and may experience additional downgrades in our claims-paying or credit ratings. a downgrade or potential downgrade in our claims-paying or credit ratings could limit our ability to market products, increase the number or value of policies being surrendered, increase our borrowing costs and/or hurt our relationships with creditors or trading counterparties and restrict our access to alternative sources of liquidity. claims-paying ratings, which are sometimes referred to as financial strength ratings, represent the opinions of rating agencies regarding the financial ability of an insurance company to meet its obligations under an insurance policy, and are important factors affecting public confidence in an insurer and its competitive position in marketing products, including prudential insurance and our other insurance company subsidiaries. credit ratings represent the opinions of rating agencies regarding an entity ability to repay its indebtedness, and prudential financial credit ratings are important to our ability to raise capital through the issuance of debt and to the cost of such financing. a downgrade in our claims-paying or credit ratings could potentially, among other things, limit our ability to market products, reduce our competitiveness, increase the number or value of policy surrenders and withdrawals, increase our borrowing costs and potentially make it more difficult to borrow funds, adversely affect the availability of financial guarantees, such as letters of credit, cause additional collateral requirements under certain agreements, allow counterparties to terminate derivative agreements, and/or hurt our relationships with creditors or trading counterparties. in addition, actions we might take to access third party financing or to realign our capital structure may in turn cause rating agencies to reevaluate our ratings. in view of the difficulties experienced recently by many financial institutions, the rating agencies have heightened the level of scrutiny that they apply to such institutions, have increased the frequency and scope of their credit reviews, have requested additional information from the companies that they rate, and may adjust upward the capital and other requirements employed in the rating agency models for maintenance of certain ratings levels, such as the financial strength ratings currently held by our life insurance subsidiaries. the outcome of such reviews may have adverse ratings consequences, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation and financial condition. for a description of the company claims paying and credit ratings and the significant changes to those ratings and rating outlooks in 2009, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations ratings. prudential insurance has been a member of the federal home loan bank of new york, or fhlbny, since june 2008. membership allows prudential insurance to participate in fhlbny product line of financial 48 table of contents services, including collateralized advances, collateralized funding agreements and general asset/liability management that can be used for liquidity management and as an alternative source of funding. under fhlbny guidelines, if prudential insurance claims-paying ratings decline below certain levels and the fhlbny does not receive written assurances from the new jersey department of banking and insurance regarding prudential insurance solvency, new borrowings from the fhlbny would be limited to a term of 90 days or less. although prudential insurance ratings are currently at or above the required minimum levels, there can be no assurance that the ratings will remain at these levels in the future. we cannot predict what additional actions rating agencies may take, or what actions we may take in response to the actions of rating agencies, which could adversely affect our business. as with other companies in the financial services industry, our ratings could be downgraded at any time and without notice by any rating agency. ratings downgrades and changes in credit spreads may require us to post collateral, thereby affecting our liquidity, and we may be unable to effectively implement certain capital management activities as a result, or for other reasons. a downgrade in the credit or financial strength ratings of prudential financial or its rated subsidiaries could result in additional collateral requirements or other required payments under certain agreements, including derivative agreements, which are eligible to be satisfied in cash or by posting securities held by the subsidiaries subject to the agreements. a ratings downgrade of three ratings levels from the ratings levels at december 31, 2009 would result in estimated collateral posting requirements or payments under such agreements of approximately $185 million. in addition, a ratings downgrade by a.m. best to a- for our domestic life insurance companies would require prudential insurance to post a letter of credit in the amount of approximately $1.3 billion, based on the level of statutory reserves related to an acquired business, that we estimate would result in annual cash outflows of approximately $18 million, or collateral posting in the form of cash or securities to be held in a trust. in addition, agreements in connection with capital management activities for our universal life insurance products would require us to post cash collateral based on tests that consider the level of 10-year credit default swap spreads on prudential financial senior debt. as of december 31, 2009, no collateral amounts were required to be paid. the naic has adopted a model regulation entitled valuation of life insurance policies, commonly known as regulation xxx, and a supporting guideline entitled the application of the valuation of life insurance policies, commonly known as guideline axxx. the regulation and supporting guideline require insurers to establish statutory reserves for term and universal life insurance policies with long-term premium guarantees that are consistent with the statutory reserves required for other individual life insurance policies with similar guarantees. many market participants believe that this level of reserves is excessive, and we have implemented reinsurance and capital management actions to mitigate the impact of regulation xxx and guideline axxx on our term and universal life insurance business. as we continue to underwrite term and universal life business, we expect to have borrowing needs in 2010 to finance statutory reserves required under regulation xxx and guideline axxx. several strategies are currently under review to reduce the strain of increased axxx and xxx statutory reserves associated with our term and universal life products. the activities we may undertake to mitigate or address these needs include obtaining letters of credit, entering into reinsurance transactions or executing other capital market strategies; however, our ability to successfully execute these strategies may depend on market conditions. based on current market conditions and absent any successful mitigation efforts, we currently believe that our financing need for 2010 could be up to $900 million for xxx and axxx combined; however this need is expected to be met with a combination of the activities described above. if we are unsuccessful in satisfying or mitigating this strain as a result of market conditions or otherwise, this financing need could require us to increase prices and or/reduce our sales of term or universal life products and/or have a negative impact on our capital position. 49 table of contents losses due to defaults by others, including issuers of investment securities or reinsurance, bond insurers and derivative instrument counterparties, downgrades in the ratings of securities we hold or of bond insurers, insolvencies of insurers in jurisdictions where we write business and other factors affecting our counterparties or the value of their securities could adversely affect the value of our investments, the realization of amounts contractually owed to us, result in assessments or additional statutory capital requirements or reduce our profitability or sources of liquidity. issuers and borrowers whose securities or loans we hold, customers, vendors, trading counterparties, counterparties under swaps and other derivative contracts, reinsurers, clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses and other financial intermediaries and guarantors, including bond insurers, may default on their obligations to us or be unable to perform service functions that are significant to our business due to bankruptcy, insolvency, lack of liquidity, adverse economic conditions, operational failure, fraud or other reasons. such defaults, instances of which have occurred in recent months, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. a downgrade in the ratings of bond insurers could also result in declines in the value of our fixed maturity investments supported by guarantees from bond insurers. in addition, we use derivative instruments to hedge various risks, including certain guaranteed minimum benefits contained in many of our variable annuity products. we enter into a variety of derivative instruments, including options, forwards, interest rate, credit default and currency swaps with a number of counterparties. our obligations under our variable annuity products are not changed by our hedging activities and we are liable for our obligations even if our derivative counterparties do not pay us. this is a more pronounced risk to us in view of the recent stresses suffered by financial institutions. such defaults could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. under state insurance guaranty association laws and similar laws in international jurisdictions, we are subject to assessments, based on the share of business we write in the relevant jurisdiction, for certain obligations of insolvent insurance companies to policyholders and claimants. amounts that we expect to collect under current and future contracts, including, but not limited to reinsurance contracts, are subject to counterparty risk. we use reinsurance as part of our capital management with respect to our closed block business. ratings downgrades or financial difficulties of reinsurers may require us to utilize additional capital with respect to the business. the eligible collateral that prudential insurance is required to pledge to the fhlbny in support of its borrowings includes qualifying mortgage-related assets, such as commercial mortgage-backed securities. the major rating agencies have downgraded the credit ratings of certain commercial mortgage-backed securities and may continue to do so. if future downgrades affect the commercial mortgage-backed securities pledged by prudential insurance to the fhlbny, those securities would no longer constitute eligible collateral under fhlbny guidelines. this could require prudential insurance to repay outstanding borrowings or to pledge replacement collateral to the fhlbny, which could materially reduce the company borrowing capacity from the fhlbny and/or prevent use of that replacement collateral for asset-based financing transactions. intense competition, including the impact of government sponsored programs and other actions on us and our competitors, could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our market share or profitability. in each of our businesses we face intense competition from domestic and foreign insurance companies, asset managers and diversified financial institutions, both for the ultimate customers for our products and, in many businesses, for distribution through non-affiliated distribution channels. we compete based on a number of factors including brand recognition, reputation, quality of service, quality of investment advice, investment performance of our products, product features, scope of distribution and distribution arrangements, price, perceived financial strength and claims-paying and credit ratings. a decline in our competitive position as to one or more of these factors could adversely affect our profitability and assets under management. many of our competitors are large and well established and some have greater market share or breadth of distribution, offer a 50 table of contents broader range of products, services or features, assume a greater level of risk, have lower profitability expectations or have higher claims-paying or credit ratings than we do. we could be subject to claims by competitors that our products, benefits, features, or the administration thereof, infringe their patents, which could adversely affect our sales, profitability and financial position. the proliferation and growth of non-affiliated distribution channels puts pressure on our captive sales channels to increase their productivity and reduce their costs in order to remain competitive, and we run the risk that the marketplace will make a more significant or rapid shift to non-affiliated or direct distribution alternatives than we anticipate or are able to achieve ourselves, potentially adversely affecting our market share and results of operations. competition for personnel in all of our businesses is intense, including for prudential agents, life planners and life advisors, other face-to-face sales personnel, desirable non-affiliated distribution channels and our investment managers. the loss of personnel could have an adverse effect on our business and profitability. the adverse market and economic conditions that began in the second half of 2007 and continued into 2009 have resulted in changes in the competitive landscape. for example, the financial distress experienced by certain financial services industry participants as a result of such conditions, including government mandated sales of certain businesses, may lead to favorable acquisition opportunities, although our ability or that of our competitors to pursue such opportunities may be limited due to lower earnings, reserve increases, and a lack of access to debt capital markets and other sources of financing. such conditions may also lead to changes by us or our competitors in product offerings, product pricing and business mix that could affect our and their relative sales volumes, market shares and profitability. it is also possible that such conditions may put u.s. companies like us with financial operations in non-u.s. locations at a competitive disadvantage relative to domestic companies operating in those locations and may impact sales in those locations. additionally, the competitive landscape in which we operate may be further affected by the government sponsored programs in the u.s. and similar governmental actions outside of the u.s. in response to the dislocations in financial markets. competitors receiving governmental financing or other assistance or subsidies, including governmental guarantees of their obligations, may obtain pricing or other competitive advantages. governmental actions in response to the recent financial crisis could subject us to substantial additional regulation. the u.s. federal government and other governments around the world have taken and are considering taking actions to address the recent financial crisis, which are significant. we cannot predict with any certainty whether these actions will be effective or the effect they may have on the financial markets or on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. governmental actions in response to the recent financial crisis could subject us to substantial additional regulation in the united states and internationally. actions taken and being considered by the u.s. federal government to address the recent financial crisis include mortgage and credit card program modification requirements that could impact our business and investments, particularly our mortgage and consumer debt related investments. during 2009, the obama administration and congress announced proposals to reform the national regulation of financial services and financial institutions. depending on the manner of adoption of these or other proposals, we could become subject to increased federal regulation. on december 11, 2009, the house of representatives approved h.r. 4173, the wall street reform and consumer protection act of 2009. h.r. 4173, if enacted, could affect the company in a number of ways. in particular, prudential financial would become subject to regulation as a thrift holding company by the board of governors of the federal reserve system (the frb ), which could exercise its authority in a manner different from current regulation by the office of thrift supervision, including the imposition of capital or other prudential requirements on prudential financial. in addition, prudential financial, or one of its subsidiaries, could be designated as a financial company subject to stricter prudential standards imposed by a newly established financial services oversight council, composed principally of federal regulators and with the frb acting as its agent, if this council were to determine that material financial distress at the company or the scope of the company activities could pose a threat to financial stability or the economy. if so designated, we would become subject to unspecified stricter prudential standards, including stricter requirements and limitations relating to capital, leverage, liquidity, debt to income ratios, and counterparty exposure, as well as overall risk management requirements and a requirement to maintain a plan for rapid and orderly dissolution in the event of severe financial distress. moreover, if so 51 table of contents designated, failure by the company to satisfy the capitalization requirements imposed could or would result, depending on the degree of under-capitalization, in additional restrictions on or requirements with respect to our business activities, such as restrictions on dividends or stock repurchases, asset growth or transactions with affiliates or requirements to develop and/or implement a capital restoration plan, obtain prior approval for acquisitions or new business lines, divest business lines, replace directors or officers or implement restrictions on senior management compensation. in addition to heightened regulation of certain financial institutions, h.r. 4173, if enacted, would authorize the frb to recommend the imposition of stricter prudential standards to activities and practices identified as posing heightened systemic risk. it is possible that any standards so imposed could have significant effects on the company business. we cannot predict whether prudential financial, any of its subsidiaries, or any of the company activities might be designated for stricter standards, if the bill provisions became law. nor can we predict what standards might be imposed, or what impact such standards would have on our business, financial condition or results of operations. if enacted, h.r. 4173 would also establish a federal insurance office within the department of the treasury to be headed by a director appointed by the secretary of the treasury. while not having a general supervisory or regulatory authority over the business of insurance, the director of this office would perform various functions with respect to insurance (other than health insurance), including serving as a non-voting member of the financial services oversight council referred to above and participating in that council decisions regarding insurers (potentially including the company) to be designated for stricter regulation. the director would also be required to conduct a study on how to modernize and improve the system of insurance regulation in the united states, including by increased national uniformity through either a federal charter or effective action by the states. if enacted, h.r. 4173, would also subject the company to a risk-based assessment imposed by the federal deposit insurance company ( fdic ) to create a systemic resolution fund to pay for the special dissolution of financial companies for which a determination has been made that such resolution is necessary to prevent harm to the financial stability of the united states. it is not possible to quantify what that assessment might be, although it could be significant. prudential financial is among the class of companies that theoretically could be subject to the special dissolution regime, which would authorize the fdic to act as prudential financial receiver in a proceeding defined by h.r. 4173 in lieu of a proceeding under the federal bankruptcy code. in addition, if enacted, h.r. 4173 would create a new framework for regulation of over-the-counter ( otc ) derivatives markets that could impact prudential global funding ( pgf ) activities. if the cftc and the sec did not exercise their discretion to exclude pgf from the class of regulated derivatives dealers because of the limited nature of its activities, pgf would be compelled to meet capital, margin, clearing and execution rules otherwise imposed by the bill, which could significantly impact the cost of its operations. another section of h.r. 4173, the investor protection act, if enacted, would, among other things, require the sec to impose on registered broker-dealers that provide retail investors personalized investment advice about securities a new standard of conduct the same as the overall standard for investment advisers (i.e. a fiduciary standard). the investor protection act would also require broker-dealers selling proprietary or a limited range of products to make certain disclosures and obtain customer consents or acknowledgements. we cannot predict the precise nature of the regulations the sec would implement were h.r. 4173 enacted, but they could impact the manner in which certain of our businesses operate. the senate has not approved comparable legislation, although proposals include provisions addressing special resolution authority for failing financial institutions, systemic risk regulation, and increased derivatives oversight, which could impact prudential. we cannot predict the form in which proposals will finally be adopted (if at all) or their applicability to or effect on our business, financial condition or results of operation. on february 1, 2010, the obama administration released the general explanations of the administration revenue proposals, which includes proposed legislation that would impose a financial crisis responsibility 52 table of contents fee ( fcrf ) on certain financial institutions with over $50 billion in consolidated assets as of january 14, 2010. as proposed, the fcrf would apply to insurance companies or other companies that own insured depositories, which would include the company. the fcrf would be imposed at a rate of approximately 15 basis points on the worldwide consolidated liabilities of companies subject to the fcrf, which includes a broad set of liabilities with a few exceptions, including certain policy-related liabilities of insurance companies. the fcrf would be imposed effective as of july 1, 2010. the amount of the fcrf that would be imposed upon the company under this proposal, in the event it is enacted into law, is unclear, but could be substantial. additionally, in january 2010, the administration announced its intention to propose legislation that would prohibit a bank or financial institution that contains a bank from owning, investing in or sponsoring a hedge fund or private equity fund, or engaging in proprietary trading operations unrelated to serving customers for its own profit. depending on how it is drafted, this proposal, if enacted, could apply to the company. the impact, if any, that such an adopted proposal would have on the business, financial condition or results of operation of the company is unclear. we cannot predict the form in which these proposals will finally be adopted (if at all) or their applicability to or effect on our business, financial condition or results of operation. in addition to these proposals and initiatives in the united states, regulators and law makers around the world are actively reviewing the causes of the financial crisis and exploring steps to avoid similar problems in the future. in many respects, this work is being led by the financial stability board (fsb), consisting of representatives of national financial authorities of the g20 nations. the g20 and the fsb have issued a series of papers and recommendations intended to produce significant changes in how financial companies, particularly companies that are members of large and complex financial groups, should be regulated. these proposals address such issues as financial group supervision, capital and solvency standards, systemic economic risk, corporate governance including executive compensation, and a host of related issues associated with responses to the financial crisis. the law makers and regulatory authorities in a number of jurisdictions in which we do business have already begun introducing legislative and regulatory changes consistent with g20 and fsb recommendations, including proposals governing consolidated regulation of insurance holding companies by the financial services agency (fsa) in japan, proposals governing executive compensation by the financial regulators in germany (bafin) and the united kingdom (fsa), and proposals to permit u.s.-style class action litigation in the united kingdom with respect to financial services claims. changes in u.s. federal income tax law or in the income tax laws of other jurisdictions in which we operate could make some of our products less attractive to consumers and increase our tax costs. current u.s. federal income tax laws generally permit certain holders to defer taxation on the build-up of value of annuities and life insurance products until payments are actually made to the policyholder or other beneficiary and to exclude from taxation the death benefit paid under a life insurance contract. congress from time to time considers legislation that could make our products less attractive to consumers, including legislation that would reduce or eliminate the benefit of this deferral on some annuities and insurance products, as well as other types of changes that could reduce or eliminate the attractiveness of annuities and life insurance products to consumers, such as repeal of the estate tax. under current law, the estate tax is completely eliminated for 2010. thereafter, the tax is reinstated using the exclusion limit and rates in effect in 2001. it is unclear if congress will keep current law in place or take action to reinstate the estate tax, possibly retroactively to the beginning of 2010. this uncertainty makes estate planning difficult and may impact sales of our products. congress, as well as state and local governments, also considers from time to time legislation that could increase the amount of corporate taxes we pay. for example, changes in the law relating to tax reserving methodologies for term life or universal life insurance policies with secondary guarantees or other products could result in higher corporate taxes. if such legislation were adopted, our consolidated net income could decline. the u.s. treasury department and the internal revenue service have indicated that they intend to address through regulations the methodology to be followed in determining the dividends received deduction, or drd, related to variable life insurance and annuity contracts. the drd reduces the amount of dividend income subject to tax and is a significant component of the difference between our actual tax expense and the expected amount 53 table of contents determined using the federal statutory tax rate of 35%. a change in the drd, including the possible retroactive or prospective elimination of this deduction through regulations or legislation, could increase our actual tax expense and reduce our consolidated net income. on february 1, 2010, the obama administration released the general explanations of the administration revenue proposals or revenue proposals. although the administration has not released proposed statutory language, the revenue proposals includes proposals which if enacted, would affect the taxation of life insurance companies and certain life insurance products. in particular, the proposals would affect the treatment of corporate owned life insurance policies, or colis, by limiting the availability of certain interest deductions for companies that purchase those policies. the proposals would also change the method used to determine the amount of dividend income received by a life insurance company on assets held in separate accounts used to support products, including variable life insurance and variable annuity contracts that are eligible for the drd. if proposals of this type were enacted, the company sale of coli, variable annuities, and variable life products could be adversely affected and the company actual tax expense could increase, thereby reducing earnings. the revenue proposals also includes proposals that would change the method by which multinational corporations could claim credits for the foreign taxes they pay and that would change the timing of the deduction for interest expense that is allocable to foreign-source income. more specifically, it is likely that the proposals would impose additional restrictions on the company ability to claim foreign tax credits on un-repatriated earnings. the proposals would also require u.s. multinationals to defer the deduction for interest expense that is allocable to foreign source income until that income is subject to u.s. tax. unused deductions would be carried forward to future years. if proposals of this type were enacted, the company actual tax expense could increase, thereby reducing earnings. the federal government currently provides a tax free subsidy to the company for providing certain retiree prescription drug benefits (the medicare part d subsidy ). both the house and senate finance committee health reform bills include a provision that would reduce the tax deductibility of retiree health care costs to the extent the company receives a medicare part d subsidy. in effect, the provision would make the medicare part d subsidy taxable. while the outcome of health care legislation is uncertain, if a proposal of this type were enacted, the company would incur a one-time charge to reflect the change in law. thereafter, the company actual tax expense would increase, thereby reducing earnings. congress failed to extend a number of tax provisions that expired at the end of 2009. one such provision provides tax deferral for investment income earned by a foreign insurance operation until the income is repatriated to the u.s. although the president and congress have indicated an intention to extend retroactively all expired provisions, the failure of congress to do so will subject the company to current u.s. tax on investment income earned by its foreign insurance operations in addition to the local jurisdictions taxes. if this provision is not extended, the company actual tax expense would increase, thereby reducing earnings. the large federal deficit, as well as the budget constraints faced by many states and localities, increases the likelihood that congress and state and local governments will raise revenue by enacting legislation increasing the taxes paid by individuals and corporations. this can be accomplished either by raising rates or otherwise changing the tax rules. while higher tax rates increase the benefits of tax deferral on the build up of value of annuities and life insurance, making our products more attractive to consumers, legislation that reduces or eliminates deferral would have a potential negative effect on our products. in addition, changes in the tax rules that result in higher corporate taxes will increase the company actual tax expense, thereby reducing earnings. the products we sell have different tax characteristics, in some cases generating tax deductions. the level of profitability of certain of our products are significantly dependent on these characteristics and our ability to continue to generate taxable income, which are taken into consideration when pricing products and are a component of our capital management strategies. accordingly, a change in tax law, our ability to generate taxable income, or other factors impacting the availability or value of the tax characteristics generated by our products, could impact product pricing and returns or require us to reduce our sales of these products or implement other actions that could be disruptive to our businesses. 54 table of contents we have substantial international operations and our international operations face political, legal, operational and other risks that could adversely affect those operations or our profitability. a substantial portion of our revenues and income from continuing operations is derived from our operations outside the u.s., primarily japan and korea. these operations are subject to restrictions on transferring funds out of the countries in which these operations are located. some of our foreign insurance and investment management operations are, and are likely to continue to be, in emerging markets where this risk as well as risks of discriminatory regulation, labor issues in connection with workers associations and trade unions, price controls, currency exchange controls, nationalization or expropriation of assets, are heightened. if our business model is not successful in a particular country, we may lose all or most of our investment in building and training our sales force in that country. many of our insurance products sold in international markets provide for the buildup of cash values for the policyholder at contractually fixed guaranteed interest rates, including in japan. actual returns on the underlying investments do not necessarily match the guaranteed interest rates and there may be times when the spread between the actual investment returns and these guaranteed rates of return to the policyholder is negative and in which this negative spread may not be offset by the mortality, morbidity and expense charges we earn on the products. our international businesses are subject to the tax laws and regulations of the countries in which they are organized and in which they operate. foreign governments from time to time consider legislation that could increase the amount of taxes that we pay or impact the sales of our products. our international operations are regulated in the jurisdictions in which they are located or operate. these regulations may apply heightened scrutiny to non-domestic companies, which can reduce our flexibility as to intercompany transactions, investments and other aspects of business operations and adversely affect our liquidity, profitability, and regulatory capital. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect our profitability and cash flow. as a u.s.-based company with significant business operations outside the u.s., particularly in japan, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange risks that could reduce u.s. dollar equivalent earnings and equity of these operations as well as negatively impact our general account and other proprietary investment portfolios. we seek to mitigate these risks by employing various hedging strategies including entering into derivative contracts and holding u.s. dollar denominated assets within our japanese subsidiaries. currency fluctuations, including the effect of changes in the value of u.s. dollar investments that vary from the amounts ultimately needed to hedge our exposure to changes in the u.s. dollar equivalent of earnings and equity of these operations, may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. additionally, u.s. dollar denominated investments held in our japanese subsidiaries could result, in the event of a significant strengthening of the yen, in additional liquidity or capital needs for our international insurance operations. our businesses are heavily regulated and changes in regulation may reduce our profitability. our businesses are subject to comprehensive regulation and supervision. the purpose of this regulation is primarily to protect our customers and not necessarily our shareholders. many of the laws and regulations to which we are subject, including those to which our international businesses are subject, are regularly re-examined, and existing or future laws and regulations may become more restrictive or otherwise adversely affect our operations. this is particularly the case under current market conditions. it appears likely that the continuing financial markets dislocation will lead to extensive changes in existing laws and regulations, and regulatory frameworks, applicable to our businesses in the u.s. and internationally. prudential financial is subject to the rules and regulations of the sec and the nyse relating to public reporting and disclosure, securities trading, accounting and financial reporting, and corporate governance matters. the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and rules and regulations adopted in furtherance of that act have substantially increased the requirements in these and other areas for public companies such as prudential financial. changes in accounting requirements could have an impact on our reported results of operations and our reported financial position. 55 table of contents many insurance regulatory and other governmental or self-regulatory bodies have the authority to review our products and business practices and those of our agents and employees and to bring regulatory or other legal actions against us if, in their view, our practices, or those of our agents or employees, are improper. these actions can result in substantial fines, penalties or prohibitions or restrictions on our business activities and could adversely affect our business, reputation, results of operations or financial condition. for a discussion of material pending litigation and regulatory matters, see legal proceedings. congress from time to time considers pension reform legislation that could decrease the attractiveness of certain of our retirement products and services to retirement plan sponsors and administrators, or have an unfavorable effect on our ability to earn revenues from these products and services. in this regard, the pension protection act of 2006 ( ppa ) made significant changes in employer pension funding obligations associated with defined benefit pension plans which are likely to increase sponsors costs of maintaining these plans. over time, these changes could hinder our sales of defined benefit pension products and services and cause sponsors to discontinue existing plans for which we provide asset management, administrative, or other services, but could increase the attractiveness of certain group annuity products we offer in connection with terminating pension plans. certain tax-favored savings initiatives that have been proposed could hinder sales and persistency of our products and services that support employment based retirement plans. insurance regulators, as well as industry participants, have begun to implement significant changes in the way in which statutory reserves and statutory capital are determined particularly for products with embedded options and guarantees, and are considering further potentially significant changes in these requirements. regulatory capital requirements based on scenario testing have already gone into effect for variable annuity products, and new reserving requirements for these products were implemented as of the end of 2009. the timing and extent of further changes to the statutory reporting framework are uncertain. the financial services agency, which is the insurance regulator in japan, recently proposed revisions to the solvency margin requirements which will operate to change the manner in which an insurance company core capital will be calculated. under the proposals, certain financial assets will now be excluded from the core capital calculation and certain investment risk factors, including derivatives and foreign exchange, will be revised. these changes are expected to become effective for the fiscal year ending march 31, 2012; however, it is anticipated that companies may begin to publicly disclose both the old and new solvency margin calculations in the third quarter of 2010. while we believe that the solvency margins of our japanese insurance subsidiaries would continue to satisfy regulatory requirements, it is possible that a reduction in the reported ratios arising from changes in the calculation requirements could affect our claims paying ratings or customer perception of our financial strength. as discussed above, governmental actions in response to the recent financial crisis could subject us to substantial additional regulation. significant regulatory changes are under consideration in the united states as well as in other jurisdiction in response to the crisis. compliance with applicable laws and regulations is time consuming and personnel-intensive, and changes in these laws and regulations may materially increase our direct and indirect compliance and other expenses of doing business, thus having a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. see business regulation for further discussion of the impact of regulations on our businesses. legal and regulatory actions are inherent in our businesses and could adversely affect our results of operations or financial position or harm our businesses or reputation. we are, and in the future may be, subject to legal and regulatory actions in the ordinary course of our businesses, including in businesses that we have divested or placed in wind-down status. some of these proceedings have been brought on behalf of various alleged classes of complainants. in certain of these matters, the plaintiffs are seeking large and/or indeterminate amounts, including punitive or exemplary damages. substantial legal liability in these or future legal or regulatory actions could have an adverse affect on us or cause us reputational harm, which in turn could harm our business prospects. material pending litigation and regulatory matters affecting us, and certain risks to our businesses presented by such matters, are discussed under legal proceedings. our litigation and regulatory matters are subject to 56 table of contents many uncertainties, and given their complexity and scope, their outcome cannot be predicted. our reserves for litigation and regulatory matters may prove to be inadequate. it is possible that our results of operations or cash flow in a particular quarterly or annual period could be materially affected by an ultimate unfavorable resolution of pending litigation and regulatory matters depending, in part, upon the results of operations or cash flow for such period. in light of the unpredictability of the company litigation and regulatory matters, it is also possible that in certain cases an ultimate unfavorable resolution of one or more pending litigation or regulatory matters could have a material adverse effect on the company financial position. the occurrence of natural or man-made disasters could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. the occurrence of natural disasters, including hurricanes, floods, earthquakes, tornadoes, fires, explosions, pandemic disease and man-made disasters, including acts of terrorism and military actions, could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition, including in the following respects: catastrophic loss of life due to natural or man-made disasters could cause us to pay benefits at higher levels and/or materially earlier than anticipated and could lead to unexpected changes in persistency rates. a natural or man-made disaster could result in losses in our investment portfolio or the failure of our counterparties to perform, or cause significant volatility in global financial markets. a terrorist attack affecting financial institutions in the united states or elsewhere could negatively impact the financial services industry in general and our business operations, investment portfolio and profitability in particular. as previously reported, in august 2004, the u.s. department of homeland security identified our newark, new jersey facilities, along with those of several other financial institutions in new york and washington, d.c., as possible targets of a terrorist attack. pandemic disease, caused by a virus such as h5n1, the avian flu virus, or h1n1, the swine flu virus, could have a severe adverse effect on prudential financial business. the potential impact of such a pandemic on prudential financial results of operations and financial position is highly speculative, and would depend on numerous factors, including: in the case of the avian flu virus, the probability of the virus mutating to a form that can be passed easily from human to human; the effectiveness of vaccines and the rate of contagion; the regions of the world most affected; the effectiveness of treatment for the infected population; the rates of mortality and morbidity among various segments of the insured versus the uninsured population; the collectability of reinsurance; the possible macroeconomic effects of a pandemic on the company asset portfolio; the effect on lapses and surrenders of existing policies, as well as sales of new policies; and many other variables. there can be no assurance that our business continuation plans and insurance coverages would be effective in mitigating any negative effects on our operations or profitability in the event of a terrorist attack or other disaster. climate change, and its regulation, may affect the prospects of companies and other entities whose securities we hold and other counterparties, including reinsurers, and affect the value of investments, including real estate investments we hold or manage for others. our initial evaluation is that the near term effects of climate change and climate change regulation on the company are not material, but we cannot predict the long term impacts on us from climate change or its regulation. our risk management policies and procedures and our minority investments in joint ventures may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk, which could adversely affect our businesses or result in losses. our policies and procedures to monitor and manage risks, including hedging programs that utilize derivative financial instruments, may not be fully effective and may leave us exposed to unidentified and unanticipated risks. the company uses models in its hedging programs and many other aspects of its operations, including but not limited to the estimation of actuarial reserves, the amortization of deferred acquisition costs and the value of business acquired, and the valuation of certain other assets and liabilities. these models rely on assumptions and projections that are inherently uncertain. management of operational, legal and regulatory risks requires, among 57 table of contents other things, policies and procedures to record properly and verify a large number of transactions and events, and these policies and procedures may not be fully effective. past or future misconduct by our employees or employees of our vendors could result in violations of law by us, regulatory sanctions and/or serious reputational or financial harm and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. a failure of our computer systems or a compromise of their security could also subject us to regulatory sanctions or other claims, harm our reputation, interrupt our operations and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. in our investments in which we hold a minority interest, we lack management and operational control over operations, which may prevent us from taking or causing to be taken actions to protect or increase the value of those investments. we face risks arising from acquisitions, divestitures and restructurings, including client losses, surrenders and withdrawals, difficulties in integrating and realizing the projected results of acquisitions and contingent liabilities with respect to dispositions. we face a number of risks arising from acquisition transactions, including the risk that, following the acquisition or reorganization of a business, we could experience client losses, surrenders or withdrawals or other results materially different from those we anticipate, as well as difficulties in integrating and realizing the projected results of acquisitions and restructurings and managing the litigation and regulatory matters to which acquired entities are party. we have retained insurance or reinsurance obligations and other contingent liabilities in connection with our divestiture or winding down of various businesses, and our reserves for these obligations and liabilities may prove to be inadequate. these risks may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. changes in our discount rate, expected rate of return and expected compensation increase assumptions for our pension and other postretirement benefit plans may result in increased expenses and reduce our profitability. we determine our pension and other postretirement benefit plan costs based on assumed discount rates, expected rates of return on plan assets and expected increases in compensation levels and trends in health care costs. changes in these assumptions may result in increased expenses and reduce our profitability. our ability to pay shareholder dividends, to engage in share repurchases and to meet obligations may be adversely affected by limitations imposed on inter-affiliate distributions and transfers by prudential insurance and our other subsidiaries. prudential financial is the holding company for all our operations, and dividends, returns of capital and interest income from its subsidiaries are the principal source of funds available to prudential financial to pay shareholder dividends, to make share repurchases and to meet its other obligations. these sources of funds may be complemented by prudential financial access, if available, to the financial markets and bank facilities. as described under business regulation and in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources, our domestic and foreign insurance and various other subsidiary companies, including prudential insurance, are subject to regulatory limitations on the payment of dividends and on other transfers of funds to prudential financial. in addition to these regulatory limitations, the terms of the ihc debt contain restrictions potentially limiting dividends by prudential insurance applicable to the financial services businesses in the event the closed block business is in financial distress and under other circumstances. finally, our management of prudential insurance and other subsidiaries to have capitalization consistent with their ratings objectives itself may constrain their payment of dividends. these restrictions on prudential financial subsidiaries may limit or prevent such subsidiaries from making dividend payments to prudential financial in an amount sufficient to fund prudential financial cash requirements and shareholder dividends. from time to time, the national association of insurance commissioners, or naic, and various state and foreign insurance regulators have considered, and may in the future consider, proposals to further limit dividend payments that an insurance company may make without regulatory approval. difficult market conditions could also affect our ability to pay shareholder dividends. our practice is to declare and pay dividends annually and the decision concerning common stock dividends is ordinarily made in the fourth quarter of the year. 58 table of contents regulatory requirements, provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and our shareholder rights plan could delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that shareholders might consider in their best interests. various states in which our insurance companies are domiciled, including new jersey, must approve any direct or indirect change of control of insurance companies organized in those states. under most states statutes, an entity is presumed to have control of an insurance company if it owns, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of the voting stock of that insurance company or its parent company. federal, and in some cases, state, banking authorities would also have to approve the indirect change of control of our banking operations. the federal securities laws could also require reapproval by customers of our investment advisory contracts to manage mutual funds, including mutual funds included in annuity products, upon a change in control. in addition, the new jersey business corporation act prohibits certain business combinations with interested shareholders. these regulatory and other restrictions may delay a potential merger or sale of prudential financial, even if the board of directors decides that it is in the best interests of shareholders to merge or be sold. prudential financial certificate of incorporation and by-laws also contain provisions that may delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that shareholders might consider in their best interests. these provisions may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock and include: a restriction on the filling of vacancies on the board of directors by shareholders; restrictions on the calling of special meetings by shareholders; a requirement that shareholders may take action without a meeting only by unanimous written consent; advance notice procedures for the nomination of candidates to the board of directors and shareholder proposals to be considered at shareholder meetings; and supermajority voting requirements for the amendment of certain provisions of the certificate of incorporation and by-laws. prudential financial shareholders rights plan also creates obstacles that may delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that shareholders might consider in their best interests. holders of our common stock are subject to risks due to the issuance of our class b stock, a second class of common stock. the businesses of prudential financial are separated into the financial services businesses and the closed block business, and our common stock reflects the performance of the financial services businesses and the class b stock reflects the performance of the closed block business. there are a number of risks to holders of our common stock by virtue of this dual common stock structure, including: even though we allocate all our consolidated assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses and cash flow between the financial services businesses and the closed block business for financial statement purposes, there is no legal separation between the financial services businesses and the closed block business. holders of common stock have no interest in a separate legal entity representing the financial services businesses; holders of the class b stock have no interest in a separate legal entity representing the closed block business; and therefore holders of each class of common stock are subject to all of the risks associated with an investment in the company. the financial results of the closed block business, including debt service on the ihc debt, will affect prudential financial consolidated results of operations, financial position and borrowing costs. the market value of our common stock may not reflect solely the performance of the financial services businesses. we cannot pay cash dividends on our common stock for any period if we choose not to pay dividends on the class b stock in an aggregate amount at least equal to the lesser of the cb distributable cash flow or the target dividend amount on the class b stock for that period. see market for registrant common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities convertibility for the definition of these terms. any net losses of the closed block business, and any dividends or distributions on, or repurchases of the class b stock, would reduce the assets of prudential financial legally available for dividends on the common stock. net income for the financial services businesses and the closed block business includes general and administrative expenses charged to each of the respective businesses based on the company methodology for the allocation of such expenses. cash flows to the financial services businesses from the closed block business related to administrative expenses are determined by a policy servicing fee 59 table of contents arrangement that is based upon insurance and policies in force and statutory cash premiums. the difference between the administrative expenses allocated to the closed block business and these cash flow amounts are recorded, on an after tax basis, as direct equity adjustments to the equity balances of the businesses and included in the determination of earnings per share for each business. a change in cash flow amounts between the businesses that is inconsistent with changes in general and administrative expenses we incur will affect the earnings per share of the common stock and class b stock. holders of common stock and class b stock vote together as a single class of common stock under new jersey law, except as otherwise required by law and except that the holders of the class b stock have class voting or consent rights with respect to specified matters directly affecting the class b stock. shares of class b stock are entitled to a higher proportionate amount upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of prudential financial, than shares of common stock. we may exchange the class b stock for shares of common stock at any time, and the class b stock is mandatorily exchangeable in the event of a sale of all or substantially all of the closed block business or a change of control of prudential financial. under these circumstances, shares of class b stock would be exchanged for shares of common stock with an aggregate average market value equal to 120% of the then appraised fair market value of the class b stock. for a description of change of control and fair market value, see market for registrant common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities convertibility . holders of class b stock may at their discretion, beginning in 2016, and at any time in the event of specified regulatory events, convert their shares of class b stock into shares of common stock with an aggregate average market value equal to 100% of the then appraised fair market value of the class b stock. any exchange or conversion could occur at a time when either or both of the common stock and class b stock may be considered overvalued or undervalued. accordingly, any such exchange or conversion may be disadvantageous to holders of common stock. our board of directors has adopted certain policies regarding inter-business transfers and accounting and tax matters, including the allocation of earnings, with respect to the financial services businesses and closed block business. although the board of directors may change any of these policies, any such decision is subject to the board of directors general fiduciary duties, and we have agreed with investors in the class b stock and the insurer of the ihc debt that, in most cases, the board of directors may not change these policies without their consent. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 230 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management, market risk and derivative instruments risk management includes the identification and measurement of various forms of risk, the establishment of risk thresholds and the creation of processes intended to maintain risks within these thresholds while optimizing returns on the underlying assets or liabilities. we consider risk management an integral part of managing our core businesses. market risk is the risk of change in the value of financial instruments as a result of absolute or relative changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, equity prices or commodity prices. to varying degrees, the investment and trading activities supporting all of our products and services generate exposure to market risk. the market risk incurred and our strategies for managing this risk varies by product. with respect to non-variable life insurance products, fixed rate annuities, the fixed rate options in our variable life insurance and annuity products, and other finance businesses, we incur market risk primarily in the form of interest rate risk. we manage this risk through asset/liability management and derivative strategies that seek to closely approximate the interest rate sensitivity, but not necessarily the exact cash flow characteristics, of the assets with the estimated interest rate sensitivity of the product liabilities. our overall objective in these strategies is to limit the net change in value of assets and liabilities arising from interest rate movements within the context of market conditions and other relative opportunities. while it is more difficult to measure the interest sensitivity of our insurance liabilities than that of the related assets, to the extent that we can measure such sensitivities we believe that interest rate movements will generate asset value changes that substantially offset changes in the value of the liabilities relating to the underlying products. certain products supported by general account investments also expose us to the risk that changes in interest rates will reduce the spread between the amounts that we are required to pay under the contracts and the rate of return we are able to earn on our general account investments supporting the contracts. for variable annuities and variable life insurance products, excluding the fixed rate options in these products, mutual funds and most separate accounts, we are exposed to the risk that asset-based fees may decrease as a result of declines in assets under management due to changes in investment prices. we also run the risk that asset management fees calculated by reference to performance could be lower. the risk of decreased asset-based and asset management fees could also impact our estimates of total gross profits used as a basis for amortizing deferred policy acquisition and other costs. while a decrease in our estimates of total gross profits would accelerate amortization and decrease net income in a given period, it would not affect our cash flow or liquidity position. for variable annuity and variable life insurance products with minimum guaranteed death benefits and variable annuity products with living benefits such as guaranteed minimum income, withdrawal, and accumulation benefits, we also face the risk that declines in the value of underlying investments as a result of interest rate, equity market, or market volatility changes may increase our net exposure to the guarantees under these contracts. as part of our risk management strategy, we utilize product design elements such as asset allocation requirements, an automatic rebalancing element and minimum purchase age requirements, in addition to externally purchased hedging instruments such as interest rate and equity based derivatives to hedge or limit our market risk exposure to the benefit features of certain of our variable annuity contracts. see note 21 to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of our use of interest rate and equity based derivatives. see note 11 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information about the guaranteed minimum death benefits associated with our variable life and variable annuity contracts, and the guaranteed minimum income, withdrawal, and accumulation benefits associated with the variable annuity contracts we issue. for a discussion of asset-based fees associated with our variable life products and our variable annuity contracts, our estimates of total gross profits used as a basis for amortizing deferred policy acquisition and other costs, and the impact of our guaranteed minimum death and other benefits on the results of our individual life and individual annuities segments, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations results of operations for financial services businesses by segment u.s. individual life and group insurance division individual life and management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations results of operations for financial services businesses by segment u.s. retirement solutions and investment management division individual annuities. 230 table of contents for risk management purposes we perform stress scenario testing to monitor the impact of extreme, but realistic adverse market events on our capital adequacy and liquidity. this testing allows us to assess the sensitivity of our businesses to market factors and identify any concentrations of risk. the regulatory capital levels and liquidity of our insurance companies in particular are closely monitored to ensure they remain consistent with our rating objectives. changes to these ratings could impact our borrowing costs, our ability to access alternative sources of liquidity, and our ability to market certain products. for additional information regarding our liquidity and capital resources see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources. market fluctuations or changes in market conditions could also cause a change in consumer sentiment adversely affecting sales and persistency of our long-term savings, protection and other investment products. for additional information regarding the potential impacts of interest rate and other market fluctuations as well as general economic and market conditions on our businesses and profitability see item 1a. risk factors. the sources of our exposure to market risk can be divided into two categories, other than trading activities conducted primarily in our insurance and annuity operations, and trading activities conducted primarily in our derivatives trading operations. as part of our management of both other than trading and trading market risks, we use a variety of risk management tools and techniques. these include sensitivity and value-at-risk, or var, measures, position and other limits based on type of risk, and various hedging methods. other than trading activities we hold the majority of our assets for other than trading activities in our segments that offer insurance, retirement and annuities products. we incorporate asset/liability management techniques and other risk management policies and limits into the process of investing our assets. we use derivatives for hedging and other purposes in the asset/liability management process. insurance and annuities products asset/liability management we seek to maintain interest rate and equity exposures within established ranges, which we periodically adjust based on market conditions and the design of related products sold to customers. our risk managers establish investment risk limits for exposures to any issuer, geographic region, type of security or industry sector and oversee efforts to manage interest rate and equity exposure risk, as well as credit, liquidity and other risks, all within policy constraints set by management and approved by the investment committee of the board of directors. for additional information regarding the management of our general account investments and our asset mix strategies, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations realized investment gains and losses and general account investments general account investments management of investments. we use duration and convexity analyses to measure price sensitivity to interest rate changes. duration measures the relative sensitivity of the fair value of a financial instrument to changes in interest rates. convexity measures the rate of change of duration with respect to changes in interest rates. we use asset/liability management and derivative strategies to manage our interest rate exposure by legal entity by matching the relative sensitivity of asset and liability values to interest rate changes, or controlling duration mismatch of assets and liabilities. we have target duration mismatch constraints by segment for each insurance entity. in certain markets, primarily outside the u.s., capital market limitations that hinder our ability to acquire assets that closely approximate the duration of some of our liabilities are considered in setting the constraint limits. as of december 31, 2009 and 2008, the difference between the pre-tax duration of assets and the target duration of liabilities in our duration managed portfolios was within our constraint limits. we consider risk-based capital and tax implications as well as current market conditions in our asset/liability management strategies. we also perform portfolio stress testing as part of our u.s. regulatory cash flow for major product lines that are subject to risk from changes in interest rates. in this testing, we evaluate the impact of altering our interest-sensitive assumptions under various adverse interest rate environments. these interest-sensitive assumptions relate to the timing and amount of redemptions and prepayments of fixed-income securities and lapses and surrenders of insurance products and the potential impact of any guaranteed minimum interest rates. we evaluate any shortfalls that this cash flow testing reveals to determine if we need to increase statutory reserves or adjust portfolio management strategies. 231 table of contents market risk related to interest rates our other than trading assets that subject us to interest rate risk include primarily fixed maturity securities, commercial mortgage and other loans and policy loans. in the aggregate, the carrying value of these assets represented 78% of our consolidated assets, other than assets that we held in separate accounts, as of december 31, 2009 and 73% as of december 31, 2008. with respect to other than trading liabilities, we are exposed to interest rate risk through policyholder account balances relating to interest-sensitive life insurance, annuity and other investment-type contracts, collectively referred to as investment contracts, and through outstanding short-term and long-term debt. we assess interest rate sensitivity for other than trading financial assets, financial liabilities and derivatives using hypothetical test scenarios that assume either upward or downward 100 basis point parallel shifts in the yield curve from prevailing interest rates, reflecting changes in either credit spreads or the risk-free rate. the following tables set forth the net estimated potential loss in fair value from a hypothetical 100 basis point upward shift as of december 31, 2009 and 2008, because this scenario results in the greatest net exposure to interest rate risk of the hypothetical scenarios tested at those dates. while the test scenario is for illustrative purposes only and does not reflect our expectations regarding future interest rates or the performance of fixed-income markets, it is a near-term, reasonably possible hypothetical change that illustrates the potential impact of such events. these test scenarios do not measure the changes in value that could result from non-parallel shifts in the yield curve, which we would expect to produce different changes in discount rates for different maturities. as a result, the actual loss in fair value from a 100 basis point change in interest rates could be different from that indicated by these calculations. as of december 31, 2009 notional fair value hypothetical fair value after +100 basis point parallel yield curve shift hypothetical change in fair value (in millions) financial assets with interest rate risk: fixed maturities(1) $ 196,473 $ 183,631 $ (12,842 ) commercial mortgage and other loans 30,693 29,553 (1,140 ) policy loans 11,837 11,142 (695 ) derivatives: swaps $ 114,601 (259 ) (1,876 ) (1,617 ) futures 3,987 (1 ) (100 ) (99 ) options 4,809 623 534 (89 ) forwards 13,507 (15 ) (26 ) (11 ) variable annuity and other living benefit feature embedded derivatives(2) (55 ) 534 589 financial liabilities with interest rate risk: short-term and long-term debt (24,054 ) (22,284 ) 1,770 debt of consolidated variable interest entities(3) (239 ) (239 ) investment contracts (74,353 ) (72,198 ) 2,155 bank customer liabilities (1,538 ) (1,526 ) 12 net estimated potential loss $ (11,967 ) 232 table of contents as of december 31, 2008 notional fair value hypothetical fair value after +100 basis point parallel yield curve shift hypothetical change in fair value (in millions) financial assets with interest rate risk: fixed maturities(1) $ 174,724 $ 163,212 $ (11,512 ) commercial mortgage and other loans 30,570 29,474 (1,096 ) policy loans 12,697 11,782 (915 ) derivatives: swaps $ 100,331 1,853 393 (1,460 ) futures 7,345 (50 ) (301 ) (251 ) options 5,371 1,895 1,758 (137 ) forwards 9,996 (143 ) (188 ) (45 ) variable annuity and other living benefit feature embedded derivatives(2) (3,229 ) (2,255 ) 974 financial liabilities with interest rate risk: short-term and long-term debt (27,051 ) (25,227 ) 1,824 debt of consolidated variable interest entities(3) (167 ) (167 ) investment contracts (69,933 ) (67,882 ) 2,051 bank customer liabilities (1,354 ) (1,347 ) 7 net estimated potential loss $ (10,560 ) (1) includes trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities and other fixed maturities classified as trading securities under u.s. gaap, but are held for other than trading activities in our segments that offer insurance, retirement and annuities products. (2) the hypothetical change in fair value related to our variable annuity and other living benefit feature embedded derivatives reflects only the gross fair value change on the embedded derivatives, and excludes any offsetting impact of derivative instruments purchased to hedge such changes in fair value. (3) included in other liabilities together with all liabilities of consolidated variable interest entities. see note 5 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding consolidated variable interest entities. the tables above do not include approximately $154 billion of insurance reserve and deposit liabilities as of december 31, 2009 and $152 billion as of december 31, 2008 which are not considered financial liabilities. we believe that the interest rate sensitivities of these insurance liabilities would serve as an offset to the net interest rate risk of the financial assets and liabilities, including investment contracts, which are set forth in these tables. our net estimated potential loss in fair value as of december 31, 2009 increased $1,407 million from december 31, 2008, primarily reflecting an increase in our fixed maturity securities portfolio in 2009. the increase in our fixed maturity securities portfolio in 2009 was primarily due to a net increase in fair value driven by credit spread tightening, portfolio growth as a result of reinvestment of net investment income, the impact of foreign currency, and the acquisition of yamato life. the estimated changes in fair values of our financial assets shown above relate primarily to assets invested to support our insurance liabilities, but do not include separate account assets associated with products for which investment risk is borne primarily by the separate account contractholders rather than by us. market risk related to equity prices we actively manage investment equity price risk against benchmarks in respective markets. we benchmark our return on equity holdings against a blend of market indices, mainly the s&amp;p 500 and russell 2000 for u.s. equities. for foreign equities we benchmark against the tokyo price index, or topix, and the msci eafe, a market index of european, australian, and far eastern equities. we target price sensitivities that approximate those of the benchmark indices. we estimate our investment equity price risk from a hypothetical 10% decline in equity benchmark market levels and measure this risk in terms of the decline in fair market value of equity securities we hold. using this methodology, our estimated investment equity price risk as of december 31, 2009 was $809 million, representing a hypothetical decline in fair market value of equity securities we held at that date from $8.091 billion to $7.282 billion. our estimated investment equity price risk using this methodology as of december 31, 2008 was $680 million, representing a hypothetical decline in fair market value of equity securities 233 table of contents we held at that date from $6.803 billion to $6.123 billion. in calculating these amounts, we exclude separate account equity securities related to products for which the investment risk is borne primarily by the separate account contractholder rather than by us. in addition to equity securities, as indicated above, we hold equity-based derivatives primarily to hedge the equity price risk embedded in the living benefit features in some of our variable annuity products. as of december 31, 2009, our equity-based derivatives had notional values of $7.126 billion, and were reported at fair value as a $532 million asset, and the living benefit features accounted for as embedded derivatives were reported at fair value as a $55 million liability. as of december 31, 2008, our equity-based derivatives had notional values of $7.353 billion, and were reported at fair value as a $1.908 billion asset, and the living benefits features accounted for as embedded derivatives were reported at fair value as a $3.229 billion liability. our estimated equity price risk associated with living benefit features accounted for as embedded derivatives, net of the related equity-based derivatives used in our living benefits hedging program, was a $61 million benefit as of december 31, 2009 and a less than $10 million benefit as of december 31, 2008, estimated based on a hypothetical 10% decline in equity benchmark market levels. the higher sensitivity level as of december 31, 2009 primarily reflects the impact of our own risk on non-performance on the embedded derivative liabilities, which does not have an offsetting impact on the hedge assets. see note 20 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information on the impact of our own risk of non-performance on the valuation of the living benefit features accounted for as embedded derivatives. in addition, we expanded our hedging program in the second quarter of 2009 to include a portion of the market exposure related to the overall capital position of our variable annuity business, including the impact of certain statutory reserve exposures. these capital hedges primarily consist of equity-based total return swaps, as well as interest rate derivatives, that are designed to partially offset changes in our capital position resulting from market driven changes in certain living and death benefit features of our variable annuity products. our estimated equity price risk associated with these capital hedges as of december 31, 2009 was a $104 million benefit, estimated based on a hypothetical 10% decline in equity benchmark market levels, which would partially offset an overall decline in our capital position related to the equity market decline. while these scenarios are for illustrative purposes only and do not reflect our expectations regarding future performance of equity markets or of our equity portfolio, they represent near term reasonably possible hypothetical changes that illustrate the potential impact of such events. these scenarios consider only the direct impact on fair value of declines in equity benchmark market levels and not changes in asset-based fees recognized as revenue, changes in our estimates of total gross profits used as a basis for amortizing deferred policy acquisition and other costs, or changes in any other assumptions such as market volatility or mortality, utilization or persistency rates in our variable annuity contracts that could also impact the fair value of our living benefit features. in addition, these scenarios do not reflect the impact of basis risk, such as potential differences in the performance of the investment funds underlying the variable annuity products relative to the market indices we use as a basis for developing our hedging strategy. the impact of basis risk could result in larger differences between the change in fair value of the equity-based derivatives and the related living benefit features, in comparison to the scenarios above. market risk related to foreign currency exchange rates we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk in our domestic general account investment portfolios, other proprietary investment portfolios and through our operations in foreign countries and foreign currency liability issuances. our exposure to foreign currency risk within the domestic general account investment portfolios supporting our u.s. insurance operations and other domestic proprietary investment portfolios arises primarily from investments that are denominated in foreign currencies. we generally hedge substantially all domestic general account foreign currency-denominated fixed-income investments and other domestic proprietary foreign currency investments into u.s. dollars in order to mitigate the risk that the cash flows or fair value of these investments fluctuates as a result of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. we generally do not hedge all of the foreign currency risk of our investments in equity securities of unaffiliated foreign entities. 234 table of contents our operations in foreign countries create the following three additional sources of foreign currency risk: first, we reflect the operating results of our foreign operations in our financial statements based on the average exchange rates prevailing during the period. we hedge some of these foreign currency operating results as part of our overall risk management strategy. we generally hedge our anticipated exposure to adjusted operating income fluctuations resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates relating to our international operations primarily in japan, korea, taiwan and europe. second, we translate our equity investment in foreign operations into u.s. dollars using the foreign currency exchange rate at the financial statement period-end date. to mitigate potential losses due to fluctuations in these exchange rates, for our equity investments in our international operations other than in japan and taiwan, we generally hedge a significant portion of this exposure through the use of foreign currency forward contracts. for our equity investments in our japanese and taiwanese operations, we generally hedge this exposure through a combination of issuing foreign denominated liabilities outside these operations and by holding u.s. dollar denominated securities in the investment portfolios of these operations. third, our international insurance operations may hold investments denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of those operations on an unhedged basis in addition to the aforementioned equity hedges resulting from foreign subsidiaries investing in u.s. dollar denominated investments. most significantly, our japanese operations hold u.s. dollar denominated investments in their investment portfolios in excess of our equity investment in such operations. for a discussion of our japanese operations u.s. dollar denominated investment holdings, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations realized investment gains and losses and general account investments general account investments portfolio composition, and management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations results of operations for financial services businesses by segment international insurance and investments division. we manage our investment foreign currency exchange rate risks, described above, within specified limits. foreign currency exchange risks for our domestic general account investment portfolio and the unhedged portion of our equity investment in foreign subsidiaries are managed using var-based analysis. this statistical technique estimates, at a specified confidence level, the potential pre-tax loss in portfolio market value that could occur over an assumed time horizon due to adverse market movements. the estimated var as of december 31, 2009 for foreign currency exchange risks in our domestic general account portfolio and the unhedged portion of equity investment in foreign subsidiaries, measured at a 95% confidence level and using a one-month time horizon, was $95 million, representing a hypothetical decline in fair market value of these foreign currency assets from $3.188 billion to $3.093 billion. the estimated var as of december 31, 2008 for foreign currency exchange risks in our domestic general account portfolio and the unhedged portion of equity investment in foreign subsidiaries, measured at a 95% confidence level and using a one-month time horizon, was $108 million, representing a hypothetical decline in fair market value of these foreign currency assets from $1.033 billion to $925 million. despite a reduction in our hedging activities related to our equity investment in foreign subsidiaries, primarily related to our korean insurance subsidiary, the estimated one-month var as of december 31, 2009 decreased in comparison to the prior year due to a significant reduction in exchange rate volatility in 2009. this decrease in volatility drove the reduction in our hedging activities, which resulted in an increase in unhedged foreign currency assets as of december 31, 2009. the average var for foreign currency exchange risks in our domestic general account portfolio and the unhedged portion of equity investment in foreign subsidiaries, measured monthly at a 95% confidence level over a one month time horizon, was $114 million during 2009 and $70 million during 2008. the average one-month var for 2009 increased in comparison to 2008 due to the reduction in hedging activities discussed above and the higher level of exchange rate volatility experience during the first half of 2009. these calculations use historical price volatilities and correlation data at a 95% confidence level. we discuss limitations of var models below. the estimated var for instruments used to hedge our anticipated exposure to adjusted operating income fluctuations resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates relating to our international operations, measured at a 95% confidence level and using a one-month time horizon, was $129 million as of december 31, 2009 and $148 million as of december 31, 2008. the decreased var for foreign currency exchange risks primarily reflects decreased volatility in exchange rates for japanese yen and korean won. 235 table of contents derivatives derivatives are financial instruments whose values are derived from interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, financial indices, or the prices of securities or commodities. derivative financial instruments may be exchange-traded or contracted in the over-the-counter market and include swaps, futures, options and forward contracts. we are also a party to financial instruments that may contain derivative instruments that are embedded in the financial instruments. see note 21 to the consolidated financial statements for a description of our derivative activities as of december 31, 2009 and 2008. under insurance statutes, our insurance companies may use derivative financial instruments to hedge actual or anticipated changes in their assets or liabilities, to replicate cash market instruments or for certain income-generating activities. these statutes generally prohibit the use of derivatives for speculative purposes. we use derivative financial instruments primarily to seek to reduce market risk from changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, as well as equity prices, and to alter interest rate or foreign currency exposures arising from mismatches between assets and liabilities. in addition, we use derivative financial instruments to mitigate risk associated with some of our benefit features of our variable annuity contracts. the notional amount of derivative instruments increased $14 billion in 2009, from $123 billion as of december 31, 2008 to $137 billion as of december 31, 2009, driven by an increase in interest rate derivatives, primarily related to our variable annuity hedging activities, and an increase in investment-only, fee-based stable value products sold in our retirement segment, which are accounted for as derivatives. we use credit derivatives to enhance the return on our investment portfolio by creating credit exposure similar to an investment in public fixed maturity cash instruments, and in limited instances purchase credit protection using credit derivatives in order to hedge specific credit exposures in our investment portfolio. for additional information regarding our exposure to credit derivatives, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations realized investment gains and losses and general account investments general account investments fixed maturity securities credit derivative exposure to public fixed maturities. trading activities we engage in trading activities primarily in connection with our derivatives trading operations. we maintain trading positions in various foreign exchange instruments and commodities, primarily to facilitate transactions for our clients. market risk affects the values of our trading positions through fluctuations in absolute or relative interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, securities and commodity prices. we seek to use security positions and forwards, futures, options and other derivatives to limit exposure to interest rate and other market risks. we also trade derivative financial instruments that allow our clients to manage exposure to interest rate, currency and other market risks. our derivative transactions involve both exchange-listed and over-the-counter contracts and are generally short-term in duration. we act both as a broker, buying and selling exchange-listed contracts for our customers, and as a dealer, by entering into futures and security transactions as a principal. as a broker, we assume counterparty and credit risks that we seek to mitigate by using margin or other credit enhancements and by establishing trading limits and credit lines. as a dealer, we are subject to market risk as well as counterparty and credit risk. we manage the market risk associated with trading activities through hedging activities and formal policies, risk and position limits, counterparty and credit limits, daily position monitoring, and other forms of risk management. value-at-risk var is one of the tools we use to monitor and manage our exposure to the market risk of our trading activities. we calculate a var that encompasses our trading activities using a 95% confidence level. the var method incorporates the risk factors to which the market value of our trading activities is exposed, which consist of interest rates, including credit spreads, foreign currency exchange rates, and commodity prices, estimates of volatilities from historical data, the sensitivity of our trading activities to changes in those market factors and the correlations of those factors. the total var for our trading activities, which considers our combined exposure to interest rate risk, foreign currency exchange rate risk, and commodities price risk, expressed in terms of adverse changes to fair value at a 95% confidence level over a one-day time horizon, was $2 million as of december 31, 2009 and $1 million as of december 31, 2008. the largest component of this total var as of december 31, 2009 and 2008 was related to commodities price risk. the total average daily var for our trading activities 236 table of contents considering our exposure to interest rate risk, foreign currency exchange rate risk, and commodities price risk, expressed in terms of adverse changes to fair value with a 95% confidence level over a one-day time horizon, was $1 million during 2009 and $1 million during 2008. the largest component of both periods total average daily var was related to commodities price risk. limitations of var models although var models are a recognized tool for risk management, they have inherent limitations, including reliance on historical data that may not be indicative of future market conditions or trading patterns. accordingly, var models should not be viewed as a predictor of future results. we may incur losses that could be materially in excess of the amounts indicated by the models on a particular trading day or over a period of time, and there have been instances when results have fallen outside the values generated by our var models. a var model does not estimate the greatest possible loss. the results of these models and analysis thereof are subject to the judgment of our risk management personnel. 237 table of contentsrisk factors 48 risk factors you should carefully consider the following risks. these risks could materially affect our business, results of operations or financial condition, cause the trading price of our common stock to decline materially or cause our actual results to differ materially from those expected or those expressed in any forward looking statements made by or on behalf of the company. these risks are not exclusive, and additional risks to which we are subject include, but are not limited to, the factors mentioned under forward-looking statements above and the risks of our businesses described elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k. market fluctuations and general economic, market and political conditions may adversely affect our business and profitability. some of our businesses and our results of operations were materially adversely affected by adverse conditions in the global financial markets and adverse economic conditions generally that began in the second half of 2007. while conditions in the global financial markets have improved, with favorable results for many of our businesses, our businesses, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected, possibly materially, if these conditions recur. even under relatively favorable market conditions, our insurance and annuities products and certain of our investment products, as well as our investment returns and our access to and cost of financing, are sensitive to fixed income, equity, real estate and other market fluctuations and general economic, market and political conditions. these fluctuations and conditions could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and liquidity, including in the following respects: the profitability of many of our insurance and annuities products depends in part on the value of the separate accounts supporting these products, which fluctuate substantially depending on the foregoing conditions. market conditions resulting in reductions in the value of assets we manage or lower transaction volume have an adverse effect on the revenues and profitability of our asset management services, which depend on fees related primarily to the value of assets under management or transaction volume, and could further decrease the value of our proprietary investments. a change in market conditions, including prolonged periods of high inflation, could cause a change in consumer sentiment adversely affecting sales and persistency of our long-term savings and protection products. a prolonged period of low interest rates could cause persistency of these products to vary from that anticipated and adversely affect profitability (as further described below). similarly, changing economic conditions and unfavorable public perception of financial institutions can influence customer behavior, including but not limited to increasing claims or surrenders in certain product lines. sales of our investment-based and asset management products and services may decline, and lapses and surrenders of variable life and annuity products and withdrawals of assets from other investment products may increase if a market downturn, increased market volatility or other market conditions result in customers becoming dissatisfied with their investments or products. a market decline could further result in guaranteed minimum benefits contained in many of our variable annuity products being higher than current account values or our pricing assumptions would support, requiring us to materially increase reserves for such products, and may cause customers to retain contracts in force in order to benefit from the guarantees, thereby increasing their cost to us. any increased cost may or may not be more than offset by the favorable impact of greater persistency from prolonged fee streams. our valuation of the liabilities for the minimum benefits contained in many of our variable annuity products requires us to consider the market perception of our risk of non-performance, and a 48 table of contents decrease in our own credit spreads resulting from ratings upgrades or other events or market conditions could cause the recorded value of these liabilities to increase, which in turn could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. market conditions determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection we purchase. accordingly, we may be forced to incur additional expenses for reinsurance or may not be able to obtain sufficient reinsurance on acceptable terms which could adversely affect the profitability of future business or our willingness to write future business. hedging instruments we hold to manage foreign exchange, product, and other risks might not perform as intended or expected resulting in higher realized losses and unforeseen cash needs. market conditions can limit availability of hedging instruments and also further increase the cost of executing product related hedges and such costs may not be recovered in the pricing of the underlying products being hedged. our hedging strategies rely on the performance of counterparties to such hedges. these counterparties may fail to perform for various reasons resulting in unhedged exposures and losses on uncollateralized positions. we have significant investment and derivative portfolios, including but not limited to corporate and asset-backed securities, equities and commercial real estate. economic conditions as well as adverse capital market conditions, including but not limited to a lack of buyers in the marketplace, volatility, credit spread changes, benchmark interest rate changes, changes in foreign currency exchange rates and declines in value of underlying collateral will impact the credit quality, liquidity and value of our investments and derivatives, potentially resulting in higher capital charges and unrealized or realized losses, the latter especially if we were to need to sell a significant amount of investments under such conditions. for example, a widening of credit spreads increases the net unrealized loss position of our investment portfolio and may ultimately result in increased realized losses. values of our investments and derivatives can also be impacted by reductions in price transparency, changes in assumptions or inputs we use in estimating fair value and changes in investor confidence and preferences, potentially resulting in higher realized or unrealized losses. volatility can make it difficult to value certain of our securities if trading becomes less frequent. valuations may include assumptions or estimates that may have significant period to period changes which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition, and in certain cases under u.s. gaap such period to period changes in the value of investments are not recognized in our results of operations or consolidated statements of financial condition. opportunities for investment of available funds at appropriate returns may be limited, including due to the current low interest rate environment, a diminished securitization market or other factors, with a possible negative impact on our overall results. the consequences of holding cash for long periods of time may result in increased purchase of derivatives for duration management purposes. the increased use of derivatives may increase the volatility of our u.s. gaap results and our statutory capital. regardless of market conditions, certain investments we hold, including private bonds and commercial mortgages, are relatively illiquid. if we needed to sell these investments, we may have difficulty doing so in a timely manner at a price that we could otherwise realize. fluctuations in our operating results and the impact on our investment portfolio may impact the company tax profile and its ability to optimally utilize tax attributes. adverse capital market conditions have in the past, and could in the future, significantly affect our ability to meet liquidity needs, our access to capital and our cost of capital, including capital that may be required by our subsidiaries. under such conditions, we may seek additional debt or equity capital but be unable to obtain such. adverse capital market conditions have affected and may affect in the future the availability and cost of borrowed funds and could impact our ability to refinance existing borrowings, thereby ultimately impacting our profitability and ability to support or grow our businesses. we need liquidity to pay our operating expenses, interest on our debt and dividends on our capital stock and replace certain maturing debt obligations. without sufficient liquidity, we could be forced to curtail certain of our operations, and our business could suffer. the principal sources of our liquidity are insurance premiums, annuity considerations, deposit funds and cash flow 49 table of contents from our investment portfolio and assets, consisting mainly of cash or assets that are readily convertible into cash. sources of liquidity in normal markets also include a variety of short- and long-term instruments, including securities lending and repurchase agreements, commercial paper, medium and long-term debt and capital securities. disruptions, uncertainty and volatility in the financial markets limited and, to the extent they persist or recur, may limit in the future our access to capital required to operate our business, most significantly our insurance and annuities operations. these market conditions may in the future limit our ability to replace, in a timely manner, maturing debt obligations and access the capital necessary to grow our business, replace capital withdrawn by customers or raise new capital required by our subsidiaries as a result of volatility in the markets. as a result, under such conditions we may be forced to delay raising capital, issue shorter tenor securities than would be optimal, bear an unattractive cost of capital or be unable to raise capital at any price, which could decrease our profitability and significantly reduce our financial flexibility. actions we might take to access financing may in turn cause rating agencies to reevaluate our ratings. our ability to borrow under our commercial paper programs is also dependent upon market conditions. future deterioration of our capital position at a time when we are unable to access the long-term debt or commercial paper markets could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. our internal sources of liquidity may prove to be insufficient. we may seek additional debt or equity financing to satisfy our needs. the availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the overall availability of credit to the financial services industry, and our credit ratings and credit capacity. we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. further, any future equity offerings would dilute the ownership interest of existing shareholders. the risk based capital, or rbc, ratio is a primary measure by which we and state insurance regulators evaluate the capital adequacy of prudential insurance and our other domestic life insurance subsidiaries, which includes businesses in both the financial services businesses and the closed block business. we manage prudential insurance and our other domestic life insurance subsidiaries rbc ratios to a level consistent with their ratings objectives; however, rating agencies take into account a variety of factors in assigning ratings to our insurance subsidiaries in addition to rbc levels. rbc is determined by statutory rules that consider risks related to the type and quality of the invested assets, insurance-related risks associated with prudential insurance products, interest rate risks and general business risks. the rbc ratio calculations are intended to assist insurance regulators in measuring the adequacy of prudential insurance statutory capitalization. adverse financial performance in the closed block business in prudential insurance, including adverse investment performance, will adversely affect prudential insurance rbc ratios, although dividends to closed block policyholders may be subsequently adjusted to reflect such performance. the failure of prudential insurance and our other domestic insurance subsidiaries to meet applicable rbc requirements or minimum statutory capital and surplus requirements could subject those subsidiaries to further examination or corrective action by state insurance regulators. the failure to maintain the rbc ratios of prudential insurance and our other domestic insurance subsidiaries at desired levels could also adversely impact our competitive position. in addition, rbc ratios may impact our credit and claims paying ratings. our international insurance companies are subject to conceptually similar measures of capital adequacy, including solvency margins for our japanese insurance companies, and we face similar risks as those described for our domestic companies in the event that we are unable to maintain these measures at adequate levels. u.s. and international insurance regulators may change capital requirements, as described herein. disruptions in the capital markets could adversely affect prudential financial and its subsidiaries ability to access sources of liquidity, as well as threaten to reduce our capital below a level that is consistent with our existing ratings objectives. therefore, we may need to take actions, which may include but are not limited to: (1) further access external sources of capital, including the debt or equity markets; (2) reduce or eliminate future shareholder dividends on our common stock; (3) undertake additional capital management activities, including reinsurance transactions; (4) limit or curtail sales of certain products and/or restructure existing products; (5) undertake further asset sales or internal asset transfers; (6) seek temporary or permanent changes to regulatory rules; and (7) maintain greater levels of cash balances or for longer periods thereby reducing investment returns. certain of these actions may require regulatory approval and/or agreement of counterparties which are outside of our control or have economic costs associated with them. 50 table of contents our asset management operations include real estate held in prudential insurance separate accounts, for the benefit of clients, which enter into forward commitments which typically are funded from separate account assets and cash flows and related separate account funding sources. adverse credit and real estate capital market conditions affecting fund liquidity and the availability of funding could produce challenges in funding commitments in the normal course. in such cases, prudential insurance might be called upon or required to provide interim funding solutions, which could affect the availability of liquidity for other purposes. an inability to access our credit facilities could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we maintain committed unsecured revolving credit facilities that, as of december 31, 2010, totaled $4.108 billion. we rely on these credit facilities as a potential source of liquidity which could be critical in enabling us to meet our obligations as they come due, particularly during periods when alternative sources of liquidity are limited. our ability to borrow under these facilities is conditioned on our satisfaction of covenants and other requirements contained in the facilities, such as prudential insurance maintenance of a prescribed minimum level of total adjusted capital based on statutory accounting principles under new jersey law and prudential financial maintenance of a prescribed minimum level of consolidated net worth calculated in accordance with the applicable credit agreement. our failure to satisfy these and other requirements contained in the credit facilities would restrict our access to the facilities when needed and, consequently, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we have experienced and may experience additional downgrades in our financial strength or credit ratings. a downgrade or potential downgrade in our financial strength or credit ratings could limit our ability to market products, increase the number or value of policies being surrendered, increase our borrowing costs and/or hurt our relationships with creditors, trading counterparties or reinsurers and restrict our access to alternative sources of liquidity. financial strength ratings, which are sometimes referred to as claims-paying ratings, represent the opinions of rating agencies regarding the financial ability of an insurance company to meet its obligations under an insurance policy, and are important factors affecting public confidence in an insurer and its competitive position in marketing products, including prudential insurance and our other insurance company subsidiaries. credit ratings represent the opinions of rating agencies regarding an entity ability to repay its indebtedness, and prudential financial credit ratings are important to our ability to raise capital through the issuance of debt and to the cost of such financing. a downgrade in our financial strength or credit ratings could potentially, among other things, limit our ability to market products, reduce our competitiveness, increase the number or value of policy surrenders and withdrawals, increase our borrowing costs and potentially make it more difficult to borrow funds, adversely affect the availability of financial guarantees, such as letters of credit, cause additional collateral requirements or other required payments under certain agreements, allow counterparties to terminate derivative agreements, and/or hurt our relationships with creditors, distributors, reinsurers or trading counterparties thereby potentially negatively affecting our profitability, liquidity and/or capital. in addition, we consider our own risk of non-performance in determining the fair value of our liabilities, including insurance liabilities that are classified as embedded derivatives under u.s. gaap. therefore, changes in our credit or financial strength ratings may affect the fair value of our liabilities. for a description of material rating actions that have occurred from the beginning of 2010 through the date of this filing, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations ratings. prudential insurance has been a member of the federal home loan bank of new york, or fhlbny, since june 2008. membership allows prudential insurance access to fhlbny financial services, including the ability to obtain collateralized loans, and to issue collateralized funding agreements that can be used as an alternative source of liquidity. under fhlbny guidelines, if prudential insurance financial strength ratings decline below a/a2/a stable by s&amp;p, moody and fitch, respectively, and the fhlbny does not receive written assurances from the new jersey department of banking and insurance regarding prudential insurance solvency, new borrowings from the fhlbny would be limited to a term of 90 days or less. although prudential insurance ratings are currently at or above the required minimum levels, there can be no assurance that the ratings will remain at these levels in the future. 51 table of contents we cannot predict what additional actions rating agencies may take, or what actions we may take in response to the actions of rating agencies, which could adversely affect our business. as with other companies in the financial services industry, our ratings could be downgraded at any time and without notice by any rating agency. in addition, agreements in connection with capital management activities for our universal life insurance products would require us to post cash collateral based on tests that consider the level of 10-year credit default swap spreads on prudential financial senior debt. as of december 31, 2010, no collateral amounts were required to be paid. ratings downgrades and changes in credit spreads may require us to post collateral, thereby affecting our liquidity, and we may be unable to effectively implement certain capital management activities as a result, or for other reasons. a downgrade in the credit or financial strength ratings of prudential financial or its rated subsidiaries could result in additional collateral requirements or other required payments under certain agreements, including derivative agreements, which are eligible to be satisfied in cash or by posting securities held by the subsidiaries subject to the agreements. a ratings downgrade of three ratings levels from the ratings levels at december 31, 2010 (relating to financial strength ratings in certain cases and credit ratings in other cases) would result in estimated collateral posting requirements or payments under such agreements of approximately $198 million as of december 31, 2010. in addition, a ratings downgrade by a.m. best to a- for our domestic life insurance companies would require prudential insurance to post a letter of credit in the amount of approximately $1.7 billion, based on the level of statutory reserves related to the variable annuity business acquired from allstate, that we estimate would result in annual cash outflows of approximately $14 million, or collateral posting in the form of cash or securities to be held in a trust. interest rate fluctuations or prolonged periods of low interest rates could adversely affect our businesses and profitability and require us to increase reserves and statutory capital. our insurance and annuities products and certain of our investment products, and our investment returns, are sensitive to interest rate fluctuations, and changes in interest rates could adversely affect our investment returns and results of operations, including in the following respects: some of our products expose us to the risk that changes in interest rates will reduce the spread between the amounts that we are required to pay under the contracts and the rate of return we are able to earn on our general account investments supporting the contracts. when interest rates decline, we have to reinvest the cash income from our investments in lower yielding instruments, potentially reducing net investment income. since many of our policies and contracts have guaranteed minimum interest or crediting rates or limit the resetting of interest rates, the spreads could decrease and potentially become negative. when interest rates rise, we may not be able to replace the assets in our general account as quickly with the higher yielding assets needed to fund the higher crediting rates necessary to keep these products and contracts competitive. changes in interest rates can also result in potential losses in our investment activities in which we borrow funds and purchase investments to earn additional spread income on the borrowed funds. when interest rates rise, policy loans and surrenders and withdrawals of life insurance policies and annuity contracts may increase as policyholders seek to buy products with perceived higher returns, requiring us to sell investment assets potentially resulting in realized investment losses, or requiring us to accelerate the amortization of dac, dsi or voba (each defined below). in addition, increasing interest rates could cause capital strain for japanese statutory reporting because the carrying value of bonds classified as available for sale would decline while the value of liabilities would generally remain unchanged. a decline in interest rates accompanied by unexpected prepayments of certain investments could result in reduced investments and a decline in our profitability. an increase in interest rates accompanied by unexpected extensions of certain lower yielding investments could result in a decline in our profitability. changes in the relationship between long-term and short-term interest rates could adversely affect the profitability of some of our products. 52 table of contents changes in interest rates could increase our costs of financing. our mitigation efforts with respect to interest rate risk are primarily focused on maintaining an investment portfolio with diversified maturities that has a weighted average duration that is approximately equal to the duration of our estimated liability cash flow profile. however, our estimate of the liability cash flow profile may turn out to be inaccurate. in addition, there are practical and capital market limitations on our ability to accomplish this matching, especially in some of our asian operations. due to these and other factors we may need to liquidate investments prior to maturity at a loss in order to satisfy liabilities or be forced to reinvest funds in a lower rate environment. although we take measures to manage the economic risks of investing in a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to effectively mitigate, and we may sometimes choose based on economic considerations and other factors not to fully mitigate, the interest rate risk of our assets relative to our liabilities. for certain of our products, a delay between the time we make changes in interest rate and other assumptions used for product pricing and the time we are able to reflect these assumptions in products available for sale could negatively impact the long-term profitability of products sold during the intervening period. recent periods have been characterized by low interest rates. a prolonged period during which interest rates remain at levels lower than those anticipated may result in greater costs associated with certain of our product features which guarantee death benefits or income streams for stated periods or for life; higher costs for derivative instruments used to hedge certain of our product risks; or shortfalls in investment income on assets supporting policy obligations, each of which may require us to record charges to increase reserves. in addition to compressing spreads and reducing net investment income, such an environment may cause policies to remain in force for longer periods than we anticipated in our pricing, potentially resulting in greater claims costs than we expected and resulting in lower overall returns on business in force. in addition, certain statutory capital requirements are based on formulas or models that consider interest rates, and a prolonged period of low interest rates may increase the statutory capital we are required to hold as well as the amount of assets we must maintain to support statutory reserves. our ability to pay shareholder dividends, to engage in share repurchases and to meet obligations may be adversely affected by limitations imposed on inter-affiliate distributions and transfers by prudential insurance and our other subsidiaries. prudential financial is the holding company for all our operations, and dividends, returns of capital and interest income from its subsidiaries are the principal source of funds available to prudential financial to pay shareholder dividends, to make share repurchases and to meet its other obligations. these sources of funds may be complemented by prudential financial access, if available, to the financial markets and bank facilities. as described under business regulation and in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources, our domestic and foreign insurance and various other subsidiary companies, including prudential insurance, are subject to regulatory limitations on the payment of dividends and on other transfers of funds to prudential financial. in addition to these regulatory limitations, the terms of the ihc debt contain restrictions potentially limiting dividends by prudential insurance applicable to the financial services businesses in the event the closed block business is in financial distress and under other circumstances. finally, our management of prudential insurance and other subsidiaries to have capitalization consistent with their ratings objectives itself may constrain their payment of dividends. these restrictions on prudential financial subsidiaries may limit or prevent such subsidiaries from making dividend payments to prudential financial in an amount sufficient to fund prudential financial cash requirements and shareholder dividends. from time to time, the national association of insurance commissioners, or naic, and various state and foreign insurance regulators have considered, and may in the future consider, proposals to further limit dividend payments that an insurance company may make without regulatory approval. difficult market conditions could also affect our ability to pay shareholder dividends. our practice is to declare and pay dividends annually and the decision concerning common stock dividends is ordinarily made in the fourth quarter of the year. 53 table of contents losses due to defaults by others, including issuers of investment securities or reinsurance, bond insurers and derivative instrument counterparties, downgrades in the ratings of securities we hold or of bond insurers, insolvencies of insurers in jurisdictions where we write business and other factors affecting our counterparties or the value of their securities could adversely affect the value of our investments, the realization of amounts contractually owed to us, result in assessments or additional statutory capital requirements or reduce our profitability or sources of liquidity. issuers and borrowers whose securities or loans we hold, customers, vendors, trading counterparties, counterparties under swaps and other derivative contracts, reinsurers, clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses and other financial intermediaries and guarantors, including bond insurers, may default on their obligations to us or be unable to perform service functions that are significant to our business due to bankruptcy, insolvency, lack of liquidity, adverse economic conditions, operational failure, fraud or other reasons. such defaults, instances of which have occurred in recent periods, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. a downgrade in the ratings of bond insurers could also result in declines in the value of our fixed maturity investments supported by guarantees from bond insurers. in addition, we use derivative instruments to hedge various risks, including certain guaranteed minimum benefits contained in many of our variable annuity products. we enter into a variety of derivative instruments, including options, forwards, interest rate, credit default and currency swaps with a number of counterparties. amounts that we expect to collect under current and future contracts, including, but not limited to reinsurance contracts, are subject to counterparty risk. our obligations under our products are not changed by our hedging activities and we are liable for our obligations even if our derivative counterparties, including reinsurers, do not pay us. this is a more pronounced risk to us in view of the recent stresses suffered by financial institutions. such defaults could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. under state insurance guaranty association laws and similar laws in international jurisdictions, we are subject to assessments, based on the share of business we write in the relevant jurisdiction, for certain obligations of insolvent insurance companies to policyholders and claimants. we use reinsurance as part of our capital management with respect to our closed block business. ratings downgrades or financial difficulties of reinsurers may require us to utilize additional capital with respect to the business. the eligible collateral that prudential insurance is required to pledge to the fhlbny in support of its borrowings includes qualifying mortgage-related assets, such as commercial mortgage-backed securities. the major rating agencies have downgraded the credit ratings of certain commercial mortgage-backed securities and may continue to do so. if future downgrades affect the commercial mortgage-backed securities pledged by prudential insurance to the fhlbny, those securities would no longer constitute eligible collateral under fhlbny guidelines. this could require prudential insurance to repay outstanding borrowings or to pledge replacement collateral to the fhlbny, which could materially reduce the company borrowing capacity from the fhlbny and/or prevent use of that replacement collateral for asset-based financing transactions. guarantees within certain of our products that protect policyholders may decrease our earnings or increase the volatility of our results of operations or financial position under u.s. gaap if our hedging or risk management strategies prove ineffective or insufficient. certain of our products, including especially our variable annuity products, include guarantees of income streams for stated periods or for life. downturns in equity markets, increased equity volatility, or (as discussed above) reduced interest rates could result in an increase in the valuation of liabilities associated with such products, resulting in increases in reserves and reductions in net income. we use a variety of hedging and risk management strategies, including product features, to mitigate these risks in part. these strategies may, however, not be fully effective. we may also choose not to fully hedge these risks. hedging instruments may not effectively offset the costs of guarantees or may otherwise be insufficient in relation to our obligations. hedging instruments also may not change in value correspondingly with associated liabilities due to equity market or interest rate conditions or other reasons. we sometimes choose to hedge these risks on a basis that does not correspond to their anticipated or actual impact upon our results of operations or financial position under u.s. gaap. for example, as discussed in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and 54 table of contents results of operations results of operations for financial services businesses by segment u.s. retirement solutions and investment management division individual annuities, during the third quarter of 2010 we have begun to hedge certain risks associated with our variable annuity products on a basis that does not fully correspond to the associated u.s. gaap liability. changes from period to period in the valuation of these policy benefits, and in the amount of our obligations effectively hedged, will result in volatility in our results of operations and financial position under u.s. gaap. estimates and assumptions we make in connection with hedging activities may fail to reflect or correspond to our actual long-term exposure in respect of our guarantees. further, the risk of increases in the costs of our guarantees not covered by our hedging and other capital and risk management strategies may become more significant due to changes in policyholder behavior driven by market conditions or other factors. the above factors, individually or collectively, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. our profitability may decline if mortality rates, morbidity rates or persistency rates differ significantly from our pricing expectations. we set prices for many of our insurance and annuity products based upon expected claims and payment patterns, using assumptions for mortality rates, or likelihood of death, and morbidity rates, or likelihood of sickness, of our policyholders. in addition to the potential effect of natural or man-made disasters, significant changes in mortality or morbidity could emerge gradually over time, due to changes in the natural environment, the health habits of the insured population, treatment patterns and technologies for disease or disability, the economic environment, or other factors. pricing of our insurance and deferred annuity products are also based in part upon expected persistency of these products, which is the probability that a policy or contract will remain in force from one period to the next. persistency within our individual annuities business may be significantly impacted by the value of guaranteed minimum benefits contained in many of our variable annuity products being higher than current account values in light of poor equity market performance or extended periods of low interest rates as well as other factors. persistency could be adversely affected generally by developments affecting client perception of us, including perceptions arising from adverse publicity. results may also vary based on differences between actual and expected premium deposits and withdrawals for these products. the development of a secondary market for life insurance, including life settlements or viaticals and investor owned life insurance, and third-party investor strategies in the annuities business, could adversely affect the profitability of existing business and our pricing assumptions for new business. significant deviations in actual experience from our pricing assumptions could have an adverse effect on the profitability of our products. although some of our products permit us to increase premiums or adjust other charges and credits during the life of the policy or contract, the adjustments permitted under the terms of the policies or contracts may not be sufficient to maintain profitability. many of our products do not permit us to increase premiums or adjust other charges and credits or limit those adjustments during the life of the policy or contract. even if permitted under the policy or contract, we may not be able or willing to raise premiums or adjust other charges sufficiently, or at all, for regulatory or competitive reasons. if our reserves for future policyholder benefits and claims are inadequate, we may be required to increase our reserves, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we establish and carry reserves to pay future policyholder benefits and claims. our reserves do not represent an exact calculation of liability, but rather are actuarial or statistical estimates based on data and models that include many assumptions and projections which are inherently uncertain and involve the exercise of significant judgment, including as to the levels of and/or timing of receipt or payment of premiums, benefits, claims, expenses, interest credits, investment results (including equity market returns), retirement, mortality, morbidity and persistency. we cannot determine with precision the ultimate amounts that we will pay for, or the timing of payment of, actual benefits, claims and expenses or whether the assets supporting our policy liabilities, together with future premiums, will be sufficient for payment of benefits and claims. if we conclude that our reserves, together with future premiums, are insufficient to cover future policy benefits and claims, we would be required to increase our reserves and incur income statement charges for the period in which we make the determination, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. for certain of our products, market performance and interest rates (as well as the regulatory environment, as discussed further below) impact the level of statutory reserves and statutory capital we are required to hold, and may have an adverse effect on returns on capital associated with these products. for example, equity market 55 table of contents declines in the fourth quarter of 2008 caused a significant increase in the level of statutory reserves and statutory capital we were required to hold in relation to our individual annuities business. we finance uneconomic reserves associated with our individual life business. marketplace capacity for reserve funding structures may be limited as a result of market conditions generally. our ability to efficiently manage capital and economic reserve levels may be impacted, thereby impacting profitability and return on capital. we may be required to accelerate the amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs, or dac, deferred sales inducements, or dsi, or valuation of business acquired, or voba, or recognize impairment in the value of our goodwill or certain investments, or be required to establish a valuation allowance against deferred income tax assets, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. deferred policy acquisition costs, or dac, represent the costs that vary with and are related primarily to the acquisition of new and renewal insurance and annuity contracts, and we amortize these costs over the expected lives of the contracts. deferred sales inducements, or dsi, represent amounts that are credited to a policyholder account balance as an inducement to purchase the contract, and we amortize these costs over the expected lives of the contracts. valuation of business acquired, or voba, represents the present value of future profits embedded in acquired insurance, annuity and investment-type contracts and is amortized over the expected effective lives of the acquired contracts. management, on an ongoing basis, tests the dac, dsi and voba recorded on our balance sheet to determine if these amounts are recoverable under current assumptions. in addition, we regularly review the estimates and assumptions underlying dac, dsi and voba for those products for which we amortize dac, dsi and voba in proportion to gross profits or gross margins. given changes in facts and circumstances, these tests and reviews could lead to reductions in dac, dsi and/or voba that could have an adverse effect on the results of our operations and our financial condition. significant or sustained equity market declines as well as investment losses could result in acceleration of amortization of the dac, dsi and voba related to variable annuity and variable universal life contracts, resulting in a charge to income. as discussed earlier, the amortization of dac, dsi and voba are also sensitive to changes in interest rates. goodwill represents the excess of the amounts we paid to acquire subsidiaries and other businesses over the fair value of their net assets at the date of acquisition. goodwill is assessed annually for potential impairment, or more frequently if conditions warrant, by comparing the carrying value (equity attributed to a business to support its risk) of a business to its estimated fair value at that date. as of december 31, 2010, we had a goodwill balance of $707 million, including $444 million related to our retirement reporting unit, $239 million related to our asset management reporting unit and $24 million related to our international insurance reporting unit. market declines or other events impacting the fair value of these businesses, or increases in the level of equity required to support these businesses, could result in goodwill impairments, resulting in a charge to income. as of december 31, 2010, we had operating equity method investments within our international investments business, of $318 million. declines in the fair value of these investments may require that we review the remaining carrying value of these investments for potential impairment, and such review could result in impairments and charges to income. deferred income tax represents the tax effect of the differences between the book and tax basis of assets and liabilities. deferred tax assets are assessed periodically by management to determine if they are realizable. factors in management determination include the performance of the business including the geographic and legal entity source of our income, the ability to generate capital gains from a variety of sources, and tax planning strategies. if based on available information, it is more likely than not that the deferred income tax asset will not be realized then a valuation allowance must be established with a corresponding charge to net income. such charges could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. changes in our discount rate, expected rate of return and expected compensation increase assumptions for our pension and other postretirement benefit plans may result in increased expenses and reduce our profitability. we determine our pension and other postretirement benefit plan costs based on assumed discount rates, expected rates of return on plan assets and expected increases in compensation levels and trends in health care costs. changes in these assumptions, including from the impact of a sustained low interest rate environment, may result in increased expenses and reduce our profitability. 56 table of contents our valuation of fixed maturity, equity and trading securities may include methodologies, estimations and assumptions that are subject to differing interpretations and could result in changes to investment valuations that may materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. during periods of market disruption, it may be difficult to value certain of our securities, such as sub-prime mortgage-backed securities, if trading becomes less frequent and/or market data becomes less observable. there may be cases where certain asset classes that were in active markets with significant observable data become inactive or for which data becomes unobservable due to the current financial environment or market conditions. as a result, valuations may include inputs and assumptions that are less observable or require greater estimation and judgment as well as valuation methods which are more complex. these values may not be ultimately realizable in a market transaction, and such values may change very rapidly as market conditions change and valuation assumptions are modified. decreases in value may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. the decision on whether to record an other-than-temporary impairment or write-down is determined in part by management assessment of the financial condition and prospects of a particular issuer, projections of future cash flows and recoverability of the particular security. management conclusions on such assessments are highly judgmental and include assumptions and projections of future cash flows which may ultimately prove to be incorrect as assumptions, facts and circumstances change. for a discussion of certain fixed maturity securities where the estimated fair value has declined and remained below amortized cost by 20% or more, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations realized investment gains and losses and general account investments unrealized losses from fixed maturity securities. we may not be able to mitigate the reserve strain associated with regulation xxx and guideline axxx, potentially resulting in a negative impact on our capital position or in a need to increase prices and/or reduce sales of term or universal life products. the states of domicile of our domestic insurance subsidiaries have in place a regulation entitled valuation of life insurance policies, commonly known as regulation xxx, and a supporting guideline entitled the application of the valuation of life insurance policies, commonly known as guideline axxx. the regulation and supporting guideline require insurers to establish statutory reserves for term and universal life insurance policies with long-term premium guarantees that are consistent with the statutory reserves required for other individual life insurance policies with similar guarantees. many market participants believe that this level of reserves is excessive, and we have implemented reinsurance and capital management actions to mitigate the impact of regulation xxx and guideline axxx on our term and universal life insurance business. as we continue to underwrite term and universal life business, we expect to have borrowing needs to finance statutory reserves required under regulation xxx and guideline axxx. based on current sales expectations, we believe our 2011 reserve growth could be up to $600 million. we are evaluating both internal and external solutions to fund this growth. if we are unsuccessful in executing these solutions as a result of market conditions or otherwise, this could require us to increase prices and or/reduce our sales of term or universal life products and/or have a negative impact on our capital position. we have substantial international operations and our international operations face political, legal, operational and other risks that could adversely affect those operations or our profitability. a substantial portion of our revenues and income from continuing operations is derived from our operations outside the u.s., primarily japan and korea. these operations are subject to restrictions on transferring funds out of the countries in which these operations are located. some of our foreign insurance and investment management operations are, and are likely to continue to be, in emerging markets where this risk as well as risks of discriminatory regulation, labor issues in connection with workers associations and trade unions, price controls, currency exchange controls, nationalization or expropriation of assets, are heightened. if our business model is not successful in a particular country, we may lose all or most of our investment in building and training our sales force in that country. 57 table of contents many of our insurance products sold in international markets provide for the buildup of cash values for the policyholder at contractually fixed guaranteed interest rates, including in japan. actual returns on the underlying investments do not necessarily match the guaranteed interest rates and there may be times when the spread between the actual investment returns and these guaranteed rates of return to the policyholder is negative and in which this negative spread may not be offset by the mortality, morbidity and expense charges we earn on the products. our international businesses are subject to the tax laws and regulations of the countries in which they are organized and in which they operate. foreign governments from time to time consider legislation that could increase the amount of taxes that we pay or impact the sales of our products. our international operations are regulated in the jurisdictions in which they are located or operate. these regulations may apply heightened scrutiny to non-domestic companies, which can reduce our flexibility as to intercompany transactions, investments and other aspects of business operations and adversely affect our liquidity, profitability, and regulatory capital. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect our profitability and cash flow. as a u.s.-based company with significant business operations outside the u.s., particularly in japan, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange risks that could reduce u.s. dollar equivalent earnings and equity of these operations as well as negatively impact our general account and other proprietary investment portfolios. we seek to mitigate these risks by employing various hedging strategies including entering into derivative contracts and holding u.s. dollar denominated assets within our japanese subsidiaries. currency fluctuations, including the effect of changes in the value of u.s. dollar investments that vary from the amounts ultimately needed to hedge our exposure to changes in the u.s. dollar equivalent of earnings and equity of these operations, may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. additionally, u.s. dollar denominated investments held in our japanese subsidiaries could result, in the event of a significant strengthening of the yen, in additional liquidity or capital needs for our international insurance operations. intense competition, including the impact of government sponsored programs and other actions on us and our competitors, could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our market share or profitability. in each of our businesses we face intense competition from domestic and foreign insurance companies, asset managers and diversified financial institutions, both for the ultimate customers for our products and, in many businesses, for distribution through non-affiliated distribution channels. we compete based on a number of factors including brand recognition, reputation, quality of service, quality of investment advice, investment performance of our products, product features, scope of distribution and distribution arrangements, price, perceived financial strength and claims-paying and credit ratings. a decline in our competitive position as to one or more of these factors could adversely affect our profitability and assets under management. many of our competitors are large and well-established and some have greater market share or breadth of distribution, offer a broader range of products, services or features, assume a greater level of risk, have lower profitability expectations or have higher claims-paying or credit ratings than we do. the proliferation and growth of non-affiliated distribution channels puts pressure on our captive sales channels to increase their productivity and reduce their costs in order to remain competitive, and we run the risk that the marketplace will make a more significant or rapid shift to non-affiliated or direct distribution alternatives than we anticipate or are able to achieve ourselves, potentially adversely affecting our market share and results of operations. in certain countries in which we operate internationally, we face competition from government owned entities that benefit from pricing or other competitive advantages. the competitive landscape in which we operate may be further affected by the government sponsored programs in the u.s. and similar governmental actions outside of the u.s. in response to the dislocations in financial markets. competitors that receive governmental financing or other assistance or subsidies, including governmental guarantees of their obligations, or that are not subject to the same regulatory constraints, may have or obtain pricing or other competitive advantages. competition for personnel in all of our businesses is intense, including for executive officers and management personnel, prudential agents, life planners, life advisors and other sales personnel, and our investment managers. we devote significant efforts to talent management and development and are subject to the 58 table of contents risk that executive, management and other personnel will be hired or recruited by competitors. competition for desirable non-affiliated distribution channels is also intense. the loss of key personnel or non-affiliated distribution channels could have an adverse effect on our business and profitability. we may experience difficulty in marketing and distributing products through our current and future distribution channels. although we distribute our products through a wide variety of distribution channels, we do maintain relationships with certain key distributors. for example, a significant amount of our sales in japan through banks is derived through a single japanese mega-bank and a significant portion of our sales in japan through life advisors is derived through a single association relationship. we recently initiated a distribution relationship with a second large japanese bank and will continue to explore other opportunities to expand our distribution capabilities through the bank channel, as well as other complementary distribution channels. we periodically negotiate the terms of these relationships, and there can be no assurance that such terms will remain acceptable to us or such third parties. an interruption in certain key relationships could materially affect our ability to market our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. distributors may elect to reduce or terminate their distribution relationships with us, including for such reasons as adverse developments in our business, adverse rating agency actions or concerns about market-related risks. we are also at risk that key distribution partners may merge, change their business models in ways that affect how our products are sold, or terminate their distribution contracts with us. an increase in bank and broker-dealer consolidation activity could increase competition for access to distributors, result in greater distribution expenses and impair our ability to market products through these channels. consolidation of distributors and/or other industry changes may also increase the likelihood that distributors will try to renegotiate the terms of any existing selling agreements to terms less favorable to us. when our products are distributed through unaffiliated firms, we may not be able to monitor or control the manner of their distribution despite our training and compliance programs. if our products are distributed by such firms in an inappropriate manner, or to customers for whom they are unsuitable, we may suffer reputational and other harms to our business. our businesses are heavily regulated and changes in regulation may reduce our profitability. our businesses are subject to comprehensive regulation and supervision. the purpose of this regulation is primarily to protect our customers and not necessarily our shareholders. many of the laws and regulations to which we are subject, including those to which our international businesses are subject, are regularly re-examined, and existing or future laws and regulations may become more restrictive or otherwise adversely affect our operations. the financial market dislocations we have experienced have produced, and are expected to continue to produce, extensive changes in existing laws and regulations, and regulatory frameworks, applicable to our businesses in the u.s. and internationally. prudential financial is subject to the rules and regulations of the sec and the nyse relating to public reporting and disclosure, securities trading, accounting and financial reporting, and corporate governance matters. the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and rules and regulations adopted in furtherance of that act have substantially increased the requirements in these and other areas for public companies such as prudential financial. many insurance regulatory and other governmental or self-regulatory bodies have the authority to review our products and business practices and those of our agents and employees and to bring regulatory or other legal actions against us if, in their view, our practices, or those of our agents or employees, are improper. these actions can result in substantial fines, penalties or prohibitions or restrictions on our business activities and could adversely affect our business, reputation, results of operations or financial condition. for a discussion of material pending litigation and regulatory matters, see commitments and guarantees, contingent liabilities and litigation and regulatory matters in the notes to consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k. congress from time to time considers pension reform legislation that could decrease the attractiveness of certain of our retirement products and services to retirement plan sponsors and administrators, or have an 59 table of contents unfavorable effect on our ability to earn revenues from these products and services. in this regard, the pension protection act of 2006 ( ppa ) made significant changes in employer pension funding obligations associated with defined benefit pension plans which are likely to increase sponsors costs of maintaining these plans. over time, these changes could hinder our sales of defined benefit pension products and services and cause sponsors to discontinue existing plans for which we provide asset management, administrative, or other services, but could increase the attractiveness of certain group annuity products we offer in connection with terminating pension plans. certain tax-favored savings initiatives that have been proposed could hinder sales and persistency of our products and services that support employment based retirement plans insurance regulators have begun to implement significant changes in the way in which industry participants must determine statutory reserves and statutory capital, particularly for products with embedded options and guarantees such as variable annuities, and are considering further potentially significant changes in these requirements. regulatory capital requirements based on scenario testing have already gone into effect for variable annuity and certain fixed annuity products and products with similar features, and new reserving requirements for these products were implemented as of the end of 2009. the timing and extent of further changes to the statutory reporting framework are uncertain. currently, there are several proposals to amend state insurance holding company laws to increase the scope of the regulation of insurance holding companies (such as prudential financial). these proposals include imposing standards for insurer corporate governance, group-wide supervision of insurance holding companies, adjustments to risk-based capital calculations to account for group-wide risks, and additional regulatory and disclosure requirements for insurance holding companies. in addition, state insurance regulators have focused attention on u.s. insurance solvency regulation pursuant to the naic solvency modernization initiative. at this time, we cannot predict with any degree of certainty what additional capital requirements, compliance costs or other burdens these requirements may impose on prudential financial. the financial services agency, the insurance regulator in japan, has implemented revisions to the solvency margin requirements that will revise risk charges for certain assets and change the manner in which an insurance company core capital is calculated. these changes are effective for the fiscal year ending march 31, 2012; however, it is anticipated that companies may begin to publicly disclose prior to that date both the old and new solvency margin calculations. while we believe that the solvency margins of our japanese insurance subsidiaries would continue to satisfy regulatory requirements and our internal targets, it is possible that a reduction in our reported ratios arising from changes in the calculation requirements could affect customer perception of our financial strength. the capital requirements in korea and taiwan are also undergoing change. compliance with applicable laws and regulations is time consuming and personnel-intensive, and changes in these laws and regulations may materially increase our direct and indirect compliance and other expenses of doing business, thus having a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. see business regulation for further discussion of the impact of regulations on our businesses. the enactment of the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act will subject us to substantial additional federal regulation and we cannot predict the effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. on july 21, 2010, president obama signed into law the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act ( dodd-frank ), which effects comprehensive changes to the regulation of financial services in the united states and subjects us to substantial additional federal regulation. dodd-frank directs existing and newly-created government agencies and bodies to promulgate regulations implementing the law, a process anticipated to occur over the next few years. we cannot predict with any certainty the requirements of the regulations ultimately adopted or how dodd-frank and such regulations will affect the financial markets generally, impact our business, credit or financial strength ratings, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition or advise or require us to hold or raise additional capital. key aspects we have identified to date of dodd-frank potential impact on us include: prudential financial will become subject, as a savings and loan holding company, to regulation by the board of governors of the federal reserve system ( frb ), which will have authority, among other 60 table of contents powers, to impose capital requirements on the company. we cannot predict what capital regulations the frb will promulgate or how the frb will exercise general supervisory authority over us. if designated by the newly established financial stability oversight council ( council ) as a systemically significant company, we would become subject to unspecified stricter prudential standards, including stricter requirements and limitations relating to risk-based capital, leverage, liquidity and credit exposure, as well as overall risk management requirements, management interlock prohibitions and a requirement to maintain a plan for rapid and orderly dissolution in the event of severe financial distress. failure to meet defined measures of financial condition could result in substantial restrictions on our business. we cannot predict whether prudential financial or a subsidiary will be so designated. we will become subject, as a savings and loan holding company (and if designated as a systemically significant company) to stress tests to be promulgated by the frb which could cause us to alter our business practices or affect the perceptions of regulators, rating agencies, customers, counterparties or investors of our financial strength. the council could recommend new or heightened standards and safeguards for activities or practices we and other financial services companies engage in. we cannot predict whether any such recommendations will be made or their effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. as a savings and loan holding company, we will become subject to the volcker rule provisions of dodd-frank prohibiting, subject to the rule exceptions, proprietary trading and the sponsorship of, and investment in, funds (referred to in dodd-frank as hedge funds or private equity funds) that rely on certain exemptions from the investment company act of 1940, as amended (collectively, covered funds ). it is possible that regulations could require us to dispose of covered fund investments, significantly alter our business practices in these operations and/or diminish the attractiveness of our covered fund products to clients. in addition, actions taken by other financial entities in response to the volcker rule could potentially negatively affect the market for, returns from or liquidity of our investments in covered funds affiliated with such other financial entities. dodd-frank creates a new framework for regulation of the over-the-counter ( otc ) derivatives markets which could impact various activities of prudential global funding ( pgf ), prudential financial and our insurance subsidiaries, which use derivatives for various purposes (including hedging interest rate, foreign currency and equity market exposures). final regulations adopted could substantially increase the cost of hedging and related operations, affect the profitability of our products or their attractiveness to our clients or cause us to alter our hedging strategy or implementation thereof or increase and/or change the composition of the risks we do not hedge. dodd-frank establishes a federal insurance office within the department of the treasury which will perform various functions with respect to insurance and will conduct a study on how to modernize and improve the system of insurance regulation in the united states, including by increased national uniformity through either a federal charter or effective action by the states. the frb could require us to legally separate our financial and non-financial activities. while our non-financial activities are relatively minor, the imposition of such a requirement on us could be burdensome and costly to implement. title ii of dodd-frank provides that a financial company such as prudential financial may be subject to a special orderly liquidation process outside the federal bankruptcy code, administered by the fdic as receiver, upon a determination that the company is in default or in danger of default and presents a systemic risk to u.s. financial stability. we cannot predict how creditors of prudential financial or its insurance and non-insurance subsidiaries, including the holders of prudential financial debt, will evaluate this potential or whether it will impact our financing or hedging costs. dodd-frank includes various securities law reforms that may affect our business practices and the liabilities and/or exposures associated therewith. dodd-frank will and could impose various assessments on us, which we are unable to estimate at this time. see business regulation for further discussion of the impact of dodd-frank on our businesses. 61 table of contents foreign governmental actions in response to the recent financial crisis could subject us to substantial additional regulation. in addition to the adoption of dodd-frank in the united states, the financial stability board (fsb), consisting of representatives of national financial authorities of the g20 nations, and the g20 have issued a series of papers and recommendations intended to produce significant changes in how financial companies, particularly companies that are members of large and complex financial groups, should be regulated. the lawmakers and regulatory authorities in a number of jurisdictions in which we do business have already begun introducing legislative and regulatory changes consistent with g20 and fsb recommendations, including proposals governing consolidated regulation of insurance holdings companies by the financial services agency (fsa) in japan, proposals governing executive compensation by the financial regulators in germany (bafin) and the united kingdom (fsa), and proposals to permit u.s.-style class action litigation in the united kingdom with respect to financial services claims. in addition, the prudential regulation of insurance and reinsurance companies across the european economic area (eea) is due for significant change under the solvency ii directive, which was adopted on november 25, 2009 and is expected to come into force in january 2013. this new regime will effect a full revision of the insurance industry solvency framework and prudential regime and may have significant implications for non-european insurance groups, like ourselves, that have established insurance undertakings (whether branches or subsidiaries) within the eea. we cannot predict with any certainty the effect these initiatives may have on the financial markets or on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. changes in accounting requirements could negatively impact our reported results of operations and our reported financial position. accounting standards are continuously evolving and subject to change. for example, it has been proposed that companies like prudential financial be required to report financial results in accordance with international financial reporting standards ( ifrs ) as issued by the international accounting standards board rather than u.s. gaap. regardless of whether the sec requires ifrs, it is expected that u.s. gaap will undergo extensive changes as a result of current standard setting initiatives of the financial accounting standards board. these and other changes in accounting standards may impose special demands on issuers in areas such as corporate governance, internal controls and disclosure. changes in accounting standards, or their interpretation, may negatively effect our reported results of operations and our reported financial condition. changes in u.s. federal income tax law or in the income tax laws of other jurisdictions in which we operate could make some of our products less attractive to consumers and increase our tax costs. current u.s. federal income tax laws generally permit certain holders to defer taxation on the build-up of value of annuities and life insurance products until payments are actually made to the policyholder or other beneficiary and to exclude from taxation the death benefit paid under a life insurance contract. congress from time to time considers legislation that could make our products less attractive to consumers, including legislation that would reduce or eliminate the benefit of this deferral on some annuities and insurance products, such as a reduction in income tax rates, as well as other types of changes that could reduce or eliminate the attractiveness of annuities and life insurance products to consumers, such as changes to the estate tax. tax laws and regulations in foreign jurisdictions also impact the relative attractiveness of our products. for example, the estate tax was completely eliminated for 2010, but modified carryover basis rules applied for property acquired from decedent dying in that year. the estate tax has been reinstated through 2012 with a $5 million individual exemption, a 35% maximum rate and step-up in basis rules for property acquired from a decedent. estates of decedents who died in 2010 can choose between the rules that were in effect in 2010 or the new rules. it is unclear what congress will do with respect to the estate tax after 2012. this uncertainty makes estate planning difficult and may impact sales of our products. congress, as well as state and local governments, also considers from time to time legislation that could increase the amount of corporate taxes we pay. for example, changes in the law relating to tax reserving methodologies for term life or universal life insurance policies with secondary guarantees or other products could result in higher current taxes. 62 table of contents the u.s. treasury department and the internal revenue service have indicated that they intend to address through regulations the methodology to be followed in determining the dividends received deduction, or drd, related to variable life insurance and annuity contracts. the drd reduces the amount of dividend income subject to tax and is a significant component of the difference between our actual tax expense and the expected tax amount determined using the federal statutory tax rate of 35%. a change in the drd, including the possible retroactive or prospective elimination of this deduction through regulations or legislation, could increase our actual tax expense and reduce our consolidated net income. on february 14, 2011, the obama administration released the general explanations of the administration revenue proposals, or revenue proposals. although the administration has not released proposed statutory language, the revenue proposals include proposals which, if enacted, would affect the taxation of life insurance companies and certain life insurance products. in particular, the proposals would affect the treatment of corporate owned life insurance policies, or coli, by limiting the availability of certain interest deductions for companies that purchase those policies. the proposals would also change the method used to determine the amount of dividend income received by a life insurance company on assets held in separate accounts used to support products, including variable life insurance and variable annuity contracts that are eligible for the drd. if proposals of this type were enacted, the company sale of coli, variable annuities, and variable life insurance products could be adversely affected and the company actual tax expense could increase, thereby reducing earnings. the revenue proposals also includes proposals that would change the method by which multinational corporations could claim credits for the foreign taxes they pay and that would change the timing of the deduction for interest expense that is allocable to foreign-source income. more specifically, it is likely that the proposals would impose additional restrictions on the company ability to claim foreign tax credits on un-repatriated earnings. the proposals would also require u.s. multinationals to defer the deduction for interest expense that is allocable to foreign source income until that income is subject to u.s. tax. unused deductions would be carried forward to future years. if proposals of this type were enacted, the company actual tax expense could increase, thereby reducing earnings. there is generally uncertainty regarding u.s. taxes both for individuals and corporations in light of the fact that many tax provisions recently enacted or extended will sunset by the end of 2012. in addition, the recommendations made by the president bipartisan national commission on fiscal responsibility and reform and other deficit reduction panels suggest the need to reform the u.s. tax code. in addition, congress plans to hold a number of hearings during 2011 devoted to tax reform. it is unclear whether or when congress may take up overall tax reform and what would be the impact of reform on the company and its products. however even in the absence of overall tax reform, the large federal deficit, as well as the budget constraints faced by many states and localities, increases the likelihood that congress and state and local governments will raise revenue by enacting legislation increasing the taxes paid by individuals and corporations. this can be accomplished either by raising rates or otherwise changing the tax rules. while higher tax rates increase the benefits of tax deferral on the build-up of value of annuities and life insurance, making our products more attractive to consumers, legislation that reduces or eliminates deferral would have a potential negative effect on our products. in addition, changes in the tax rules that result in higher corporate taxes will increase the company actual tax expense, thereby reducing earnings. the products we sell have different tax characteristics, in some cases generating tax deductions. the level of profitability of certain of our products is significantly dependent on these characteristics and our ability to continue to generate taxable income, which is taken into consideration when pricing products and is a component of our capital management strategies. accordingly, changes in tax law, our ability to generate taxable income, or other factors impacting the availability or value of the tax characteristics generated by our products, could impact product pricing and returns or require us to reduce our sales of these products or implement other actions that could be disruptive to our businesses. legal and regulatory actions are inherent in our businesses and could adversely affect our results of operations or financial position or harm our businesses or reputation. we are, and in the future may be, subject to legal and regulatory actions in the ordinary course of our businesses, including in businesses that we have divested or placed in wind-down status. some of these 63 table of contents proceedings have been brought on behalf of various alleged classes of complainants. in certain of these matters, the plaintiffs are seeking large and/or indeterminate amounts, including punitive or exemplary damages. legal liability or adverse publicity in respect of these or future legal or regulatory actions could have an adverse affect on us or cause us reputational harm, which in turn could harm our business prospects. material pending litigation and regulatory matters affecting us, and certain risks to our businesses presented by such matters, are discussed under commitments and guarantees, contingent liabilities and litigation and regulatory matters in the notes to consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k. our litigation and regulatory matters are subject to many uncertainties, and given their complexity and scope, their outcome cannot be predicted. our reserves for litigation and regulatory matters may prove to be inadequate. it is possible that our results of operations or cash flow in a particular quarterly or annual period could be materially affected by an ultimate unfavorable resolution of pending litigation and regulatory matters depending, in part, upon the results of operations or cash flow for such period. in light of the unpredictability of the company litigation and regulatory matters, it is also possible that in certain cases an ultimate unfavorable resolution of one or more pending litigation or regulatory matters could have a material adverse effect on the company financial position. we may not be able to protect our intellectual property and may be subject to infringement claims. we rely on a combination of contractual rights with third parties and copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws to establish and protect our intellectual property. although we endeavor to protect our rights, third parties may infringe or misappropriate our intellectual property. we may have to litigate to enforce and protect our copyrights, trademarks, patents, trade secrets and know-how or to determine their scope, validity or enforceability. this would represent a diversion of resources that may be significant and our efforts may not prove successful. the inability to secure or protect our intellectual property assets could have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to compete. we may be subject to claims by third parties for (i) patent, trademark or copyright infringement, (ii) breach of copyright, trademark or license usage rights, or (iii) misappropriation of trade secrets. any such claims and any resulting litigation could result in significant expense and liability for damages. if we were found to have infringed or misappropriated a third-party patent or other intellectual property right, we could in some circumstances be enjoined from providing certain products or services to our customers or from utilizing and benefiting from certain methods, processes, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets or licenses. alternatively, we could be required to enter into costly licensing arrangements with third parties or implement a costly work around. any of these scenarios could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. the occurrence of natural or man-made disasters could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. the occurrence of natural disasters, including hurricanes, floods, earthquakes, tornadoes, fires, explosions, pandemic disease and man-made disasters, including acts of terrorism and military actions, could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition, including in the following respects: catastrophic loss of life due to natural or man-made disasters could cause us to pay benefits at higher levels and/or materially earlier than anticipated and could lead to unexpected changes in persistency rates. a natural or man-made disaster could result in losses in our investment portfolio or the failure of our counterparties to perform, or cause significant volatility in global financial markets. a terrorist attack affecting financial institutions in the united states or elsewhere could negatively impact the financial services industry in general and our business operations, investment portfolio and profitability in particular. in august 2004, the u.s. department of homeland security identified our newark, new jersey facilities, along with those of several other financial institutions in new york and washington, d.c., as possible targets of a terrorist attack. pandemic disease, caused by a virus such as h5n1, the avian flu virus, or h1n1, the swine flu virus, could have a severe adverse effect on prudential financial business. the potential impact of such a 64 table of contents pandemic on prudential financial results of operations and financial position is highly speculative, and would depend on numerous factors, including: in the case of the avian flu virus, the probability of the virus mutating to a form that can be passed easily from human to human; the effectiveness of vaccines and the rate of contagion; the regions of the world most affected; the effectiveness of treatment for the infected population; the rates of mortality and morbidity among various segments of the insured versus the uninsured population; the collectability of reinsurance; the possible macroeconomic effects of a pandemic on the company asset portfolio; the effect on lapses and surrenders of existing policies, as well as sales of new policies; and many other variables. there can be no assurance that our business continuation plans and insurance coverages would be effective in mitigating any negative effects on our operations or profitability in the event of a terrorist attack or other disaster. climate change, and its regulation, may affect the prospects of companies and other entities whose securities we hold and other counterparties, including reinsurers, and affect the value of investments, including real estate investments we hold or manage for others. our current evaluation is that the near term effects of climate change and climate change regulation on the company are not material, but we cannot predict the long term impacts on us from climate change or its regulation. our risk management policies and procedures and our minority investments in joint ventures may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk, which could adversely affect our businesses or result in losses. our policies, procedures and controls to monitor and manage risks, including hedging programs that utilize derivative financial instruments, may not be fully effective in achieving their purposes and may leave us exposed to unidentified and unanticipated risks. the company uses models in its hedging programs and many other aspects of its operations, including but not limited to the estimation of actuarial reserves, the amortization of deferred acquisition costs and the valuation of business acquired, and the valuation of certain other assets and liabilities. these models rely on assumptions and projections that are inherently uncertain. management of operational, legal and regulatory risks requires, among other things, policies, procedures and controls to record properly and verify a large number of transactions and events, and these policies, procedures and controls may not be fully effective. past or future misconduct by our employees or employees of our vendors could result in violations of law by us, regulatory sanctions and/or serious reputational or financial harm and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. although we employ controls and procedures designed to monitor associates business decisions and prevent us from taking excessive or inappropriate risks, there can be no assurance that these controls and procedures are or may be effective. we review our compensation policies and practices as part of our overall risk management program, but it is possible that our compensation policies and practices could inadvertently incentivize excessive or inappropriate risk taking. if our associates take excessive or inappropriate risks, those risks could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. in our investments in which we hold a minority interest, we lack management and operational control over operations, which may prevent us from taking or causing to be taken actions to protect or increase the value of those investments. in those jurisdictions where we are constrained by law from owning a majority interest in jointly owned operations, our remedies in the event of a breach by a joint venture partner may be limited (e.g., we may have no ability to exercise a call option). interruption in telecommunication, information technology and other operational systems, or a failure to maintain the security, confidentiality or privacy of sensitive data residing on such systems, could harm our business. we depend heavily on our telecommunication, information technology and other operational systems and on the integrity and timeliness of data we use to run our businesses and service our customers. these systems may 65 table of contents fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events or circumstances wholly or partly beyond our control. further, we face the risk of operational and technology failures by others, including clearing agents, exchanges and other financial intermediaries and of vendors and parties to which we outsource the provision of services or business operations. if these parties do not perform as anticipated, we may experience operational difficulties, increased costs and other adverse effects on our business. these risks are heightened by our offering of increasingly complex products, such as those that feature automatic asset transfer or re-allocation strategies, and by our employment of complex investment, trading and hedging programs. despite our implementation of a variety of security measures, our information technology and other systems could be subject to physical or electronic break-ins, unauthorized tampering or other security breaches, resulting in a failure to maintain the security, confidentiality or privacy of sensitive data, including personal information relating to customers. interruption in telecommunication, information technology and other operational systems, or a failure to maintain the security, confidentiality or privacy of sensitive data residing on such systems, whether due to actions by us or others, could delay or disrupt our ability to do business and service our customers, harm our reputation, subject us to regulatory sanctions and other claims, lead to a loss of customers and revenues and otherwise adversely affect our business. we face risks arising from acquisitions, divestitures and restructurings, including client losses, surrenders and withdrawals, difficulties in integrating and realizing the projected results of acquisitions and contingent liabilities with respect to dispositions. we face a number of risks arising from acquisition transactions, including the risk that, following the acquisition or reorganization of a business, we could experience client losses, surrenders or withdrawals or other results materially different from those we anticipate, as well as difficulties in integrating and realizing the projected results of acquisitions and restructurings and managing the litigation and regulatory matters to which acquired entities are party. we have retained insurance or reinsurance obligations and other contingent liabilities in connection with our divestiture or winding down of various businesses, and our reserves for these obligations and liabilities may prove to be inadequate. these risks may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. we are subject to risks relating to the acquisition, and post-acquisition operations, of the star and edison businesses in japan. on february 1, 2011, we completed the acquisition from american international group, inc. ( aig ) of aig star life insurance co., ltd. ( star ) and aig edison life insurance company ( edison ) and certain other aig subsidiaries in japan (the acquisition ). for a description of the acquired businesses (collectively, the star and edison businesses ) and the acquisition, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations under results of operations for financial services businesses by segment international insurance and investments division and liquidity and capital resources. we are subject to certain risks relating to the acquisition and the star and edison businesses, which risks could adversely affect, possibly materially, our business, results of operations, financial position or liquidity or prevent us from realizing the expected benefits from the acquisition. these risks include the following: we may experience difficulties in integrating the star and edison businesses and the process of integration may take longer than expected. our ability to achieve the benefits we anticipate from the acquisition will depend upon whether we are able to integrate the star and edison businesses into our existing japanese business in an efficient and effective manner. the integration of certain operations will require the dedication of significant management resources over a long period, which may distract management attention from day-to-day business operations. we expect to incur significant one-time costs in connection with the acquisition and the related integration of the star and edison businesses. the costs and liabilities actually incurred in connection with the acquisition and subsequent integration process may exceed those anticipated. we may not realize cost savings, efficiencies or synergies that we anticipate. 66 table of contents we intend to reposition the existing investment portfolios of the star and edison businesses to reflect our desired lower risk profile, including a re-allocation among investment asset classes. the terms at which this repositioning is implemented are dependent on market conditions, including the level of interest rates, and such repositioning may lower yields and net investment income relative to our expectations. we may not be successful in carrying out this repositioning as intended, or we may experience delays in effecting the repositioning, in which case the portfolios may be subject to a level of investment risk that is greater than we plan or believe to be optimal. there is the risk that we will be exposed to obligations and liabilities of star and edison that are not adequately covered, in amount, scope or duration, by the indemnification provisions in the stock purchase agreement or reflected or reserved for in the historical financial statements of the star and edison businesses, and there is the risk that such historical financial statements may contain errors. the publicized financial difficulties involving aig have negatively affected the star and edison businesses. any perception of additional instability surrounding aig or other events relating to aig may adversely impact the reputation of the star and edison businesses or of the company and adversely affect the ability of the star and edison businesses to retain employees, customers and distributors. furthermore, following the completion of the acquisition, the star and edison businesses will continue to have relationships with and rely upon aig, including for the receipt of transition services. the star and edison businesses are also subject to many of the other risks described in this section to which our existing businesses, particularly those in japan, are subject, including but not limited to risks associated with economic, market and political conditions, capital and liquidity, foreign exchange fluctuations and regulatory and legal matters. regulatory requirements, provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and our shareholder rights plan could delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that shareholders might consider in their best interests. various states in which our insurance companies are domiciled, including new jersey, must approve any direct or indirect change of control of insurance companies organized in those states. under most states statutes, an entity is presumed to have control of an insurance company if it owns, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of the voting stock of that insurance company or its parent company. federal, and in some cases, state, banking authorities would also have to approve the indirect change of control of our banking operations. the federal securities laws could also require reapproval by customers of our investment advisory contracts to manage mutual funds, including mutual funds included in annuity products, upon a change in control. in addition, the new jersey business corporation act prohibits certain business combinations with interested shareholders. these regulatory and other restrictions may delay a potential merger or sale of prudential financial, even if the board of directors decides that it is in the best interests of shareholders to merge or be sold. prudential financial certificate of incorporation and by-laws also contain provisions that may delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that shareholders might consider in their best interests. these provisions may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock and include: a restriction on the filling of vacancies on the board of directors by shareholders; restrictions on the calling of special meetings by shareholders; a requirement that shareholders may take action without a meeting only by unanimous written consent; advance notice procedures for the nomination of candidates to the board of directors and shareholder proposals to be considered at shareholder meetings; and supermajority voting requirements for the amendment of certain provisions of the certificate of incorporation and by-laws. prudential financial shareholders rights plan also creates obstacles that may delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that shareholders might consider in their best interests. 67 table of contents holders of our common stock are subject to risks due to the issuance of our class b stock, a second class of common stock. the businesses of prudential financial are separated into the financial services businesses and the closed block business, and our common stock reflects the performance of the financial services businesses and the class b stock reflects the performance of the closed block business. there are a number of risks to holders of our common stock by virtue of this dual common stock structure, including: even though we allocate all our consolidated assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses and cash flow between the financial services businesses and the closed block business for financial statement purposes, there is no legal separation between the financial services businesses and the closed block business. holders of common stock have no interest in a separate legal entity representing the financial services businesses; holders of the class b stock have no interest in a separate legal entity representing the closed block business; and therefore holders of each class of common stock are subject to all of the risks associated with an investment in the company. the financial results of the closed block business, including debt service on the ihc debt, will affect prudential financial consolidated results of operations, financial position and borrowing costs. the market value of our common stock may not reflect solely the performance of the financial services businesses. we cannot pay cash dividends on our common stock for any period if we choose not to pay dividends on the class b stock in an aggregate amount at least equal to the lesser of the cb distributable cash flow or the target dividend amount on the class b stock for that period. see market for registrant common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities convertibility for the definition of these terms. any net losses of the closed block business, and any dividends or distributions on, or repurchases of the class b stock, would reduce the assets of prudential financial legally available for dividends on the common stock. net income for the financial services businesses and the closed block business includes general and administrative expenses charged to each of the respective businesses based on the company methodology for the allocation of such expenses. cash flows to the financial services businesses from the closed block business related to administrative expenses are determined by a policy servicing fee arrangement that is based upon insurance and policies in force and statutory cash premiums. the difference between the administrative expenses allocated to the closed block business and these cash flow amounts are recorded, on an after tax basis, as direct equity adjustments to the equity balances of the businesses and included in the determination of earnings per share for each business. a change in cash flow amounts between the businesses that is inconsistent with changes in general and administrative expenses we incur will affect the earnings per share of the common stock and class b stock. holders of common stock and class b stock vote together as a single class of common stock under new jersey law, except as otherwise required by law and except that the holders of the class b stock have class voting or consent rights with respect to specified matters directly affecting the class b stock. shares of class b stock are entitled to a higher proportionate amount upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of prudential financial, than shares of common stock. we may exchange the class b stock for shares of common stock at any time, and the class b stock is mandatorily exchangeable in the event of a sale of all or substantially all of the closed block business or a change of control of prudential financial. under these circumstances, shares of class b stock would be exchanged for shares of common stock with an aggregate average market value equal to 120% of the then appraised fair market value of the class b stock. for a description of change of control and fair market value, see market for registrant common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities convertibility. holders of class b stock may at their discretion, beginning in 2016, and at any time in the event of specified regulatory events, convert their shares of class b stock into shares of common stock with an aggregate average market value equal to 100% of the then appraised fair market value of the class b stock. any exchange or conversion could occur at a time when either or both of the common stock and class b stock may be considered overvalued or undervalued. accordingly, any such exchange or conversion may be disadvantageous to holders of common stock. 68 table of contents our board of directors has adopted certain policies regarding inter-business transfers and accounting and tax matters, including the allocation of earnings, with respect to the financial services businesses and closed block business. although the board of directors may change any of these policies, any such decision is subject to the board of directors general fiduciary duties, and we have agreed with investors in the class b stock and the insurer of the ihc debt that, in most cases, the board of directors may not change these policies without their consent. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 247 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management, market risk and derivative instruments risk management includes the identification and measurement of various forms of risk, the establishment of risk thresholds and the creation of processes intended to maintain risks within these thresholds while optimizing returns on the underlying assets or liabilities. we consider risk management an integral part of managing our core businesses. market risk is the risk of change in the value of financial instruments as a result of absolute or relative changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, equity prices or commodity prices. to varying degrees, the investment and trading activities supporting all of our products and services generate exposure to market risk. the market risk incurred and our strategies for managing this risk vary by product. with respect to non-variable life insurance products, fixed-rate annuities, the fixed-rate accounts in our variable life insurance and annuity products, and other finance businesses, we incur market risk primarily in the form of interest rate risk. we manage this risk through asset/liability management and derivative strategies that seek to closely approximate the interest rate sensitivity, but not necessarily the exact cash flow characteristics, of the assets with the estimated interest rate sensitivity of the product liabilities. our overall objective in these strategies is to limit the net change in value of assets and liabilities arising from interest rate movements within the context of market conditions and other relative opportunities. while it is more difficult to measure the interest sensitivity of our insurance liabilities than that of the related assets, to the extent that we can measure such sensitivities we believe that interest rate movements will generate asset value changes that substantially offset changes in the value of the liabilities relating to the underlying products. certain products supported by general account investments also expose us to the risk that changes in interest rates will reduce the spread between the amounts that we are required to pay under the contracts and the rate of return we are able to earn on our general account investments supporting the contracts. in a declining or sustained low interest rate environment, our ability to achieve desired spreads can become limited by minimum guaranteed crediting rates associated with some of our variable life insurance and annuity products. for variable annuities and variable life insurance products, excluding the fixed-rate accounts associated with these products, mutual funds and most separate accounts, we are exposed to the risk that asset-based fees may decrease as a result of declines in assets under management due to changes in investment prices. we also run the risk that asset management fees calculated by reference to performance could be lower. the risk of decreased asset-based and asset management fees could also impact our estimates of total gross profits used as a basis for amortizing deferred policy acquisition and other costs. while a decrease in our estimates of total gross profits would accelerate amortization and decrease net income in a given period, it would not affect our cash flow or liquidity position. for variable annuity and variable life insurance products with minimum guaranteed death benefits and variable annuity products with living benefits such as guaranteed minimum income, withdrawal, and accumulation benefits, we also face the risk that declines in the value of underlying investments as a result of interest rate, equity market, or market volatility changes may increase our net exposure to the guarantees under these contracts. as part of our risk management strategy, we utilize product design elements such as asset allocation restrictions, an automatic rebalancing element and minimum purchase age requirements, in addition to externally-purchased hedging instruments such as interest rate and equity based derivatives to help to hedge or limit our market risk exposure to the benefit features of certain of our variable annuity contracts. see note 21 to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of our use of interest rate and equity based derivatives. see note 11 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information about the guaranteed minimum death benefits associated with our variable life and variable annuity contracts, and the guaranteed minimum income, withdrawal, and accumulation benefits associated with our variable annuity contracts. for a discussion of asset-based fees associated with our variable life products and our variable annuity contracts, our estimates of total gross profits used as a basis for amortizing deferred policy acquisition and other costs, and the impact of our guaranteed minimum death and other benefits on the results of our individual life and individual annuities segments, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations results of operations for financial services businesses by segment u.s. individual 247 table of contents life and group insurance division individual life and management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations results of operations for financial services businesses by segment u.s. retirement solutions and investment management division individual annuities. for risk management purposes we perform stress scenario testing to monitor the impact of extreme, but realistic adverse market events on our capital adequacy and liquidity. this testing allows us to assess the sensitivity of our businesses to market factors and identify any concentrations of risk. the regulatory capital levels and liquidity of our insurance companies in particular are closely monitored to ensure they remain consistent with our rating objectives. changes to these ratings could impact our borrowing costs, our ability to access alternative sources of liquidity, and our ability to market certain products. for additional information regarding our liquidity and capital resources see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources. market fluctuations or changes in market conditions could also cause a change in consumer sentiment adversely affecting sales and persistency of our long-term savings, protection and other investment products. for additional information regarding the potential impacts of interest rate and other market fluctuations as well as general economic and market conditions on our businesses and profitability see item 1a. risk factors. the sources of our exposure to market risk can be divided into two categories, other than trading activities conducted primarily in our insurance and annuity operations, and trading activities conducted primarily in our derivatives trading operations. as part of our management of both other than trading and trading market risks, we use a variety of risk management tools and techniques. these include sensitivity and value-at-risk, or var, measures, position and other limits based on type of risk, and various hedging methods. other than trading activities we hold the majority of our assets for other than trading activities in our segments that offer insurance, retirement and annuities products. we incorporate asset/liability management techniques and other risk management policies and limits into the process of investing our assets. we use derivatives for hedging and other purposes in the asset/liability management process. insurance and annuities products asset/liability management we seek to maintain interest rate and equity exposures within established ranges, which we periodically adjust based on market conditions and the design of related products sold to customers. our risk managers establish investment risk limits for exposures to any issuer, geographic region, type of security or industry sector and oversee efforts to manage interest rate and equity exposure risk, as well as credit, liquidity and other risks, all within policy constraints set by management and approved by the investment committee of the board of directors. for additional information regarding the management of our general account investments and our asset mix strategies, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations realized investment gains and losses and general account investments general account investments management of investments. we use duration and convexity analyses to measure price sensitivity to interest rate changes. duration measures the relative sensitivity of the fair value of a financial instrument to changes in interest rates. convexity measures the rate of change of duration with respect to changes in interest rates. we use asset/liability management and derivative strategies to manage our interest rate exposure by legal entity by matching the relative sensitivity of asset and liability values to interest rate changes, or controlling duration mismatch of assets and liabilities. we have target duration mismatch constraints by segment for each insurance entity. in certain markets, primarily outside the u.s., capital market limitations that hinder our ability to acquire assets that closely approximate the duration of some of our liabilities are considered in setting the constraint limits. as of december 31, 2010 and 2009, the difference between the pre-tax duration of assets and the target duration of liabilities in our duration-managed portfolios was within our constraint limits. we consider risk-based capital and tax implications as well as current market conditions in our asset/liability management strategies. we also perform portfolio stress testing as part of our u.s. regulatory cash flow for major product lines that are subject to risk from changes in interest rates. in this testing, we evaluate the impact of altering our interest- 248 table of contents sensitive assumptions under various adverse interest rate environments. these interest-sensitive assumptions relate to the timing and amount of redemptions and prepayments of fixed-income securities and lapses and surrenders of insurance products and the potential impact of any guaranteed minimum interest rates. we evaluate any shortfalls that this cash flow testing reveals to determine if we need to increase statutory reserves or adjust portfolio management strategies. market risk related to interest rates our other than trading assets that subject us to interest rate risk include primarily fixed maturity securities, commercial mortgage and other loans and policy loans. in the aggregate, the carrying value of these assets represented 78% of our consolidated assets, other than assets that we held in separate accounts, as of both december 31, 2010 and 2009. with respect to other than trading liabilities, we are exposed to interest rate risk through policyholder account balances relating to interest-sensitive life insurance, annuity and other investment-type contracts, collectively referred to as investment contracts, and through outstanding short-term and long-term debt. we assess interest rate sensitivity for other than trading financial assets, financial liabilities and derivatives using hypothetical test scenarios that assume either upward or downward 100 basis point parallel shifts in the yield curve from prevailing interest rates, reflecting changes in either credit spreads or the risk-free rate. the following tables set forth the net estimated potential loss in fair value from a hypothetical 100 basis point upward shift as of december 31, 2010 and 2009, because this scenario results in the greatest net exposure to interest rate risk of the hypothetical scenarios tested at those dates. while the test scenario is for illustrative purposes only and does not reflect our expectations regarding future interest rates or the performance of fixed-income markets, it is a near-term, reasonably possible hypothetical change that illustrates the potential impact of such events. these test scenarios do not measure the changes in value that could result from non-parallel shifts in the yield curve, which we would expect to produce different changes in discount rates for different maturities. as a result, the actual loss in fair value from a 100 basis point change in interest rates could be different from that indicated by these calculations. as of december 31, 2010 notional fair value hypothetical fair value after +100 basis point parallel yield curve shift hypothetical change in fair value (in millions) financial assets with interest rate risk: fixed maturities (1) $ 217,694 $ 202,279 $ (15,415 ) commercial mortgage and other loans 33,129 31,869 (1,260 ) policy loans 12,781 11,978 (803 ) derivatives: swaps $ 138,442 563 (1,182 ) (1,745 ) futures 6,834 0 (43 ) (43 ) options 23,277 516 427 (89 ) forwards 11,891 (159 ) (167 ) (8 ) variable annuity and other living benefit feature embedded derivatives (2) 204 1,388 1,184 financial liabilities with interest rate risk: short-term and long-term debt (27,093 ) (25,049 ) 2,044 debt of consolidated variable interest entities (3) (265 ) (265 ) 0 investment contracts (78,757 ) (76,258 ) 2,499 bank customer liabilities (1,775 ) (1,762 ) 13 net estimated potential loss $ (13,623 ) 249 table of contents as of december 31, 2009 notional fair value hypothetical fair value after +100 basis point parallel yield curve shift hypothetical change in fair value (in millions) financial assets with interest rate risk: fixed maturities (1) $ 196,473 $ 183,631 $ (12,842 ) commercial mortgage and other loans 30,693 29,553 (1,140 ) policy loans 11,837 11,142 (695 ) derivatives: swaps $ 114,601 (259 ) (1,876 ) (1,617 ) futures 3,987 (1 ) (100 ) (99 ) options 4,809 623 534 (89 ) forwards 13,507 (15 ) (26 ) (11 ) variable annuity and other living benefit feature embedded derivatives(2) (55 ) 534 589 financial liabilities with interest rate risk: short-term and long-term debt (24,054 ) (22,284 ) 1,770 debt of consolidated variable interest entities(3) (239 ) (239 ) 0 investment contracts (74,353 ) (72,198 ) 2,155 bank customer liabilities (1,538 ) (1,526 ) 12 net estimated potential loss $ (11,967 ) (1) includes trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities and other fixed maturities classified as trading securities under u.s. gaap, but are held for other than trading activities in our segments that offer insurance, retirement and annuities products. (2) the hypothetical change in fair value related to our variable annuity and other living benefit feature embedded derivatives reflects only the gross fair value change on the embedded derivatives, and excludes any offsetting impact of derivative instruments purchased to hedge such changes in fair value. (3) included in other liabilities together with all liabilities of consolidated variable interest entities. see note 5 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding consolidated variable interest entities. the tables above do not include approximately $163 billion of insurance reserve and deposit liabilities as of december 31, 2010 and $154 billion as of december 31, 2009 which are not considered financial liabilities. we believe that the interest rate sensitivities of these insurance liabilities would serve as an offset to the net interest rate risk of the financial assets and liabilities, including investment contracts, which are set forth in these tables. our net estimated potential loss in fair value as of december 31, 2010 increased $1,656 million from december 31, 2009, primarily reflecting an increase in our fixed maturity securities portfolio in 2010. the increase in our fixed maturity securities portfolio in 2010 was primarily due to portfolio growth as a result of reinvestment of net investment income and a net increase in fair value primarily driven by a net decrease in interest rates, mainly from risk free rates. the estimated changes in fair values of our financial assets shown above relate primarily to assets invested to support our insurance liabilities, but do not include separate account assets associated with products for which investment risk is borne primarily by the separate account contractholders rather than by us. market risk related to equity prices we actively manage investment equity price risk against benchmarks in respective markets. we benchmark our return on equity holdings against a blend of market indices, mainly the s&amp;p 500 and russell 2000 for u.s. equities. for foreign equities we benchmark against the tokyo price index, or topix, and the msci eafe, a market index of european, australian, and far eastern equities. we target price sensitivities that approximate those of the benchmark indices. we estimate our investment equity price risk from a hypothetical 10% decline in equity benchmark market levels and measure this risk in terms of the decline in fair market value of equity securities we hold. using this methodology, our estimated investment equity price risk as of december 31, 2010 was $922 million, representing a hypothetical decline in fair market value of equity securities we held at that date from $9.217 billion to $8.295 billion. our estimated investment equity price risk using this methodology as of 250 table of contents december 31, 2009 was $809 million, representing a hypothetical decline in fair market value of equity securities we held at that date from $8.091 billion to $7.282 billion. in calculating these amounts, we exclude separate account equity securities related to products for which the investment risk is borne primarily by the separate account contractholder rather than by us. in addition to equity securities, as indicated above, we hold equity-based derivatives primarily to hedge the equity price risk embedded in the living benefit features in some of our variable annuity products, as well as part of our capital hedging program described further below. as of december 31, 2010, our equity-based derivatives had notional values of $26.004 billion, and were reported at fair value as a $353 million asset, and the living benefit features accounted for as embedded derivatives were reported at fair value as a $204 million asset. as of december 31, 2009, our equity-based derivatives had notional values of $7.126 billion, and were reported at fair value as a $532 million asset, and the living benefits features accounted for as embedded derivatives were reported at fair value as a $55 million liability. our estimated equity price risk associated with living benefit features accounted for as embedded derivatives, net of the related equity-based derivatives used in our living benefits hedging program, was a $87 million benefit as of december 31, 2010 and a $61 million benefit as of december 31, 2009, estimated based on a hypothetical 10% decline in equity benchmark market levels. the higher sensitivity level as of december 31, 2010 primarily reflects the impact of our own risk of non-performance on the embedded derivative liabilities, which does not have an offsetting impact on the hedge assets. see note 20 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information on the impact of our own risk of non-performance on the valuation of the living benefit features accounted for as embedded derivatives. in addition, we expanded our hedging program in the second quarter of 2009 to include a portion of the market exposure related to the overall capital position of our variable annuity business, including the impact of certain statutory reserve exposures. these capital hedges primarily consisted of equity-based total return swaps that were designed to partially offset changes in our capital position resulting from market driven changes in certain living and death benefit features of our variable annuity products. our estimated equity price risk associated with these capital hedges as of december 31, 2009 was a $104 million benefit, estimated based on a hypothetical 10% decline in equity benchmark market levels, which would partially offset an overall decline in our capital position related to the equity market decline. in 2010, we changed the focus of our capital hedge program for the equity price risk associated with our variable annuities business to a broader view of equity market exposure of the statutory capital of the company as a whole. in the second quarter of 2010, we removed the equity component of our capital hedge within the individual annuities segment and entered into equity index-linked derivative transactions that are designed to mitigate the impact on statutory capital of a severe equity market stress event. the program now focuses on tail risk rather than general equity market declines in order to protect our capital in a more cost-effective manner under stress scenarios. we continue to assess the composition of our hedging program on an ongoing basis, and we may change it from time to time based on our evaluation of the company risk position or other factors. our estimated equity price risk associated with these capital hedges as of december 31, 2010 was a $3 million benefit, estimated based on a hypothetical 10% decline in equity benchmark market levels, which would partially offset an overall decline in our capital position related to the equity market decline. while these scenarios are for illustrative purposes only and do not reflect our expectations regarding future performance of equity markets or of our equity portfolio, they represent near term reasonably possible hypothetical changes that illustrate the potential impact of such events. these scenarios consider only the direct impact on fair value of declines in equity benchmark market levels and not changes in asset-based fees recognized as revenue, changes in our estimates of total gross profits used as a basis for amortizing deferred policy acquisition and other costs, or changes in any other assumptions such as market volatility or mortality, utilization or persistency rates in our variable annuity contracts that could also impact the fair value of our living benefit features. in addition, these scenarios do not reflect the impact of basis risk, such as potential differences in the performance of the investment funds underlying the variable annuity products relative to the market indices we use as a basis for developing our hedging strategy. the impact of basis risk could result in larger differences between the change in fair value of the equity-based derivatives and the related living benefit features, in comparison to the scenarios above. 251 table of contents market risk related to foreign currency exchange rates we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk in our domestic general account investment portfolios, other proprietary investment portfolios and through our operations in foreign countries and foreign currency liability issuances. our exposure to foreign currency risk within the domestic general account investment portfolios supporting our u.s. insurance operations and other domestic proprietary investment portfolios arises primarily from investments that are denominated in foreign currencies. we generally hedge substantially all domestic general account foreign currency-denominated fixed-income investments and other domestic proprietary foreign currency investments into u.s. dollars in order to mitigate the risk that the cash flows or fair value of these investments fluctuates as a result of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. we generally do not hedge all of the foreign currency risk of our investments in equity securities of unaffiliated foreign entities. our operations in foreign countries create the following three additional sources of foreign currency risk: first, we reflect the operating results of our foreign operations in our financial statements based on the average exchange rates prevailing during the period. we hedge some of these foreign currency operating results as part of our overall risk management strategy. we generally hedge our anticipated exposure to adjusted operating income fluctuations resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates relating to our international operations primarily in japan, korea, taiwan and europe. second, we translate our equity investment in foreign operations into u.s. dollars using the foreign currency exchange rate at the financial statement period-end date. for our equity investments in our japanese and taiwanese operations, we generally hedge this exposure through a combination of issuing foreign denominated liabilities outside these operations and by holding u.s. dollar denominated securities in the investment portfolios of these operations. third, our international insurance operations may hold investments denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of those operations on an unhedged basis in addition to the aforementioned equity hedges resulting from foreign subsidiaries investing in u.s. dollar denominated investments. most significantly, our japanese operations hold u.s. dollar denominated investments in their investment portfolios in excess of our equity investment in such operations. for a discussion of our japanese operations u.s. dollar denominated investment holdings, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations realized investment gains and losses and general account investments general account investments portfolio composition, and management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations results of operations for financial services businesses by segment international insurance and investments division. we manage our investment foreign currency exchange rate risks, described above, within specified limits. foreign currency exchange risks for our domestic general account investment portfolio and the unhedged portion of our equity investment in foreign subsidiaries are managed using var-based analysis. this statistical technique estimates, at a specified confidence level, the potential pre-tax loss in portfolio market value that could occur over an assumed time horizon due to adverse market movements. the estimated var as of december 31, 2010 for foreign currency exchange risks in our domestic general account portfolio and the unhedged portion of equity investment in foreign subsidiaries, measured at a 95% confidence level and using a one-month time horizon, was $133 million, representing a hypothetical decline in fair market value of these foreign currency assets from $3.491 billion to $3.358 billion. the estimated var as of december 31, 2009 for foreign currency exchange risks in our domestic general account portfolio and the unhedged portion of equity investment in foreign subsidiaries, measured at a 95% confidence level and using a one-month time horizon, was $95 million, representing a hypothetical decline in fair market value of these foreign currency assets from $3.188 billion to $3.093 billion. the estimated one-month var as of december 31, 2010 increased driven by a reduction in our hedging activities related to our equity investment in foreign subsidiaries, primarily related to our korean insurance subsidiary, and a higher level of exchange rate volatility experience during 2010. the average var for foreign currency exchange risks in our domestic general account portfolio and the unhedged portion of equity investment in foreign subsidiaries, measured monthly at a 95% 252 table of contents confidence level over a one month time horizon, was $125 million during 2010 and $114 million during 2009. the average one-month var for 2010 increased in comparison to 2009 due to the reduction in hedging activities discussed above and the higher level of exchange rate volatility experience during 2010. these calculations use historical price volatilities and correlation data at a 95% confidence level. we discuss limitations of var models below. the estimated var for instruments used to hedge our anticipated exposure to adjusted operating income fluctuations resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates relating to our international operations, measured at a 95% confidence level and using a one-month time horizon, was $134 million as of december 31, 2010 and $129 million as of december 31, 2009. the increased var for foreign currency exchange risks primarily reflects increased volatility in exchange rates for japanese yen and korean won. derivatives derivatives are financial instruments whose values are derived from interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, financial indices, or the prices of securities or commodities. derivative financial instruments may be exchange-traded or contracted in the over-the-counter market and include swaps, futures, options and forward contracts. we are also a party to financial instruments that may contain derivative instruments that are embedded in the financial instruments. we are exposed to credit-related losses in the event of non-performance by counterparties to financial derivative transactions. we manage credit risk by entering into derivative transactions with major international financial institutions and other creditworthy counterparties, and by obtaining collateral where appropriate. additionally, limits are set on single party credit exposures which are subject to periodic management review. see note 21 to the consolidated financial statements for a description of our derivative activities and credit risk as of december 31, 2010 and 2009. under insurance statutes, our insurance companies may use derivative financial instruments to hedge actual or anticipated changes in their assets or liabilities, to replicate cash market instruments or for certain income-generating activities. these statutes generally prohibit the use of derivatives for speculative purposes. we use derivative financial instruments primarily to seek to reduce market risk from changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, as well as equity prices, and to alter interest rate or foreign currency exposures arising from mismatches between assets and liabilities. in addition, we use derivative financial instruments to mitigate risk associated with some of our benefit features of our variable annuity contracts. the notional amount of derivative instruments increased $43 billion in 2010, from $137 billion as of december 31, 2009 to $180 billion as of december 31, 2010, driven by an increase in interest rate derivatives, primarily related to our variable annuity hedging activities, and an increase in investment-only, fee-based stable value products sold in our retirement segment, which are accounted for as derivatives, as well as an increase in equity-based derivatives related to our capital hedge program. we use credit derivatives to enhance the return on our investment portfolio by creating credit exposure similar to an investment in public fixed maturity cash instruments, and purchase credit protection using credit derivatives in order to hedge specific credit exposures in our investment portfolio. for additional information regarding our exposure to credit derivatives, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations realized investment gains and losses and general account investments general account investments fixed maturity securities credit derivative exposure to public fixed maturities. trading activities we engage in trading activities primarily in connection with our derivatives trading operations. we maintain trading positions in various foreign exchange instruments and commodities, primarily to facilitate transactions for our clients. market risk affects the values of our trading positions through fluctuations in absolute or relative interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, securities and commodity prices. we seek to use security positions and forwards, futures, options and other derivatives to limit exposure to interest rate and other market risks. we also trade derivative financial instruments that allow our clients to manage exposure to interest rate, currency and other market risks. our derivative transactions involve both exchange-listed and over-the-counter contracts and are generally short-term in duration. we act both as a broker, buying and selling exchange-listed contracts for our customers, and as a dealer, by entering into futures and security transactions as a principal. as a broker, we assume counterparty and credit risks that we seek to mitigate by using margin or other credit enhancements and by establishing trading limits and credit lines. as a dealer, we are subject to market risk as 253 table of contents well as counterparty and credit risk. we manage the market risk associated with trading activities through hedging activities and formal policies, risk and position limits, counterparty and credit limits, daily position monitoring, and other forms of risk management. value-at-risk var is one of the tools we use to monitor and manage our exposure to the market risk of our trading activities. we calculate a var that encompasses our trading activities using a 95% confidence level. the var method incorporates the risk factors to which the market value of our trading activities is exposed, which consist of interest rates, including credit spreads, foreign currency exchange rates, and commodity prices, estimates of volatilities from historical data, the sensitivity of our trading activities to changes in those market factors and the correlations of those factors. the total var for our trading activities, which considers our combined exposure to interest rate risk, foreign currency exchange rate risk, and commodities price risk, expressed in terms of adverse changes to fair value at a 95% confidence level over a one-day time horizon, was $1 million as of december 31, 2010 and $2 million as of december 31, 2009. the largest component of this total var as of december 31, 2010 and 2009 was related to commodities price risk. the total average daily var for our trading activities considering our exposure to interest rate risk, foreign currency exchange rate risk, and commodities price risk, expressed in terms of adverse changes to fair value with a 95% confidence level over a one-day time horizon, was $1 million during both 2010 and 2009. the largest component of both periods total average daily var was related to commodities price risk. limitations of var models although var models are a recognized tool for risk management, they have inherent limitations, including reliance on historical data that may not be indicative of future market conditions or trading patterns. accordingly, var models should not be viewed as a predictor of future results. we may incur losses that could be materially in excess of the amounts indicated by the models on a particular trading day or over a period of time, and there have been instances when results have fallen outside the values generated by our var models. a var model does not estimate the greatest possible loss. the results of these models and analysis thereof are subject to the judgment of our risk management personnel. 254 table of contentsrisk factors 48 risk factors you should carefully consider the following risks. these risks could materially affect our business, results of operations or financial condition, cause the trading price of our common stock to decline materially or cause our actual results to differ materially from those expected or those expressed in any forward looking statements made by or on behalf of the company. these risks are not exclusive, and additional risks to which we are subject include, but are not limited to, the factors mentioned under forward-looking statements above and the risks of our businesses described elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k. 48 table of contents market fluctuations and general economic, market and political conditions may adversely affect our business and profitability. some of our businesses and our results of operations were materially adversely affected by adverse conditions in the global financial markets and adverse economic conditions in recent years. our businesses, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected, possibly materially, if these conditions persist or recur. uncertainty and concerns with respect to market, economic and financial conditions in europe intensified in the latter part of 2011. these concerns have given rise to a perceived risk of default on the government securities of certain european countries, including greece, ireland, italy, portugal and spain, and fears of a contagion that could lead to the insolvency of, or defaults by, other countries as well as financial institutions with significant direct or indirect exposure to the government securities of affected countries. the credit ratings of most european countries have been downgraded by certain of the major rating agencies. yields on the government securities of most european union member states have been volatile. the european union, the european central bank and the international monetary fund have implemented or proposed programs to address these conditions. we cannot predict with any certainty whether these programs will be successful or the effect that continuing adverse european market, economic and financial conditions or such programs may have on the future viability of the euro or the european monetary union. adverse european market, economic and financial conditions have had, and are likely to continue to have, a negative impact on global economic activity and financial markets. these conditions, should they persist or worsen, could adversely affect our investment results, results of operations and financial position. even under relatively favorable market conditions, our insurance and annuities products and certain of our investment products, as well as our investment returns and our access to and cost of financing, are sensitive to fixed income, equity, real estate and other market fluctuations and general economic, market and political conditions. these fluctuations and conditions could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and liquidity, including in the following respects: the profitability of many of our insurance and annuity products depends in part on the value of the separate accounts supporting these products, which fluctuate substantially depending on the foregoing conditions. market conditions resulting in reductions in the value of assets we manage or lower transaction volume have an adverse effect on the revenues and profitability of our asset management services, which depend on fees related primarily to the value of assets under management or transaction volume, and could further decrease the value of our strategic investments. a change in market conditions, including prolonged periods of high inflation, could cause a change in consumer sentiment and behavior adversely affecting sales and persistency of our long-term savings and protection products. a prolonged period of low interest rates could cause persistency of these products to vary from that anticipated and adversely affect profitability (as further described below). similarly, changing economic conditions and unfavorable public perception of financial institutions can influence customer behavior, including increasing claims or surrenders in certain product lines. sales of our investment-based and asset management products and services may decline, and lapses and surrenders of variable life and annuity products and withdrawals of assets from other investment products may increase if a market downturn, increased market volatility or other market conditions result in customers becoming dissatisfied with their investments or products. a market decline could further result in guaranteed minimum benefits contained in many of our variable annuity products being higher than current account values or our pricing assumptions would support, requiring us to materially increase reserves for such products, and may cause customers to retain contracts in force in order to benefit from the guarantees, thereby increasing their cost to us. any increased cost may or may not be more than offset by the favorable impact of greater persistency from prolonged fee streams. our valuation of the liabilities for the minimum benefits contained in many of our variable annuity products requires us to consider the market perception of our risk of non-performance, and a decrease in our own credit spreads resulting from ratings upgrades or other events or market conditions could cause the recorded value of these liabilities to increase, which in turn could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. 49 table of contents market conditions determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection we purchase. accordingly, we may be forced to incur additional expenses for reinsurance or may not be able to obtain sufficient reinsurance on acceptable terms which could adversely affect the profitability of future business or our willingness to write future business. hedging instruments we hold to manage foreign exchange, product, and other risks might not perform as intended or expected resulting in higher realized losses and unforeseen cash needs. market conditions can limit availability of hedging instruments and also further increase the cost of executing product related hedges and such costs may not be recovered in the pricing of the underlying products being hedged. our hedging strategies rely on the performance of counterparties to such hedges. these counterparties may fail to perform for various reasons resulting in unhedged exposures and losses on uncollateralized positions. we have significant investment and derivative portfolios, including but not limited to corporate and asset-backed securities, foreign government securities (primarily that of the japanese government), equities and commercial real estate. economic conditions as well as adverse capital market conditions, including a lack of buyers in the marketplace, volatility, credit spread changes, benchmark interest rate changes, changes in foreign currency exchange rates and declines in value of underlying collateral will impact the credit quality, liquidity and value of our investments and derivatives, potentially resulting in higher capital charges and unrealized or realized losses, the latter especially if we were to need to sell a significant amount of investments under such conditions. for example, a widening of credit spreads increases the net unrealized loss position (currently in an unrealized gain position) of our investment portfolio and may ultimately result in increased realized losses. values of our investments and derivatives can also be impacted by reductions in price transparency, changes in assumptions or inputs we use in estimating fair value and changes in investor confidence and preferences, potentially resulting in higher realized or unrealized losses. volatility can make it difficult to value certain of our securities if trading becomes less frequent. valuations may include assumptions or estimates that may have significant period to period changes which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition, and in certain cases under u.s. gaap such period to period changes in the value of investments are not recognized in our results of operations or consolidated statements of financial position. opportunities for investment of available funds at appropriate returns may be limited, including due to the current low interest rate environment, a diminished securitization market or other factors, with a possible negative impact on our overall results. the consequences of holding cash for long periods of time may necessitate increased purchase of derivatives for duration management purposes. the increased use of derivatives may increase the volatility of our u.s. gaap results and our statutory capital. regardless of market conditions, certain investments we hold, including private bonds and commercial mortgages, are relatively illiquid. if we needed to sell these investments, we may have difficulty doing so in a timely manner at a price that we could otherwise realize. fluctuations in our operating results and the impact on our investment portfolio may impact the company tax profile and its ability to optimally utilize tax attributes. adverse capital market conditions have in the past, and could in the future, significantly affect our ability to meet liquidity needs, our access to capital and our cost of capital, including capital that may be required by our subsidiaries. under such conditions, we may seek additional debt or equity capital but be unable to obtain such. adverse capital market conditions have affected and may affect in the future the availability and cost of borrowed funds and could impact our ability to refinance existing borrowings, thereby ultimately impacting our profitability and ability to support or grow our businesses. we need liquidity to pay our operating expenses, interest on our debt and dividends on our capital stock and replace certain maturing debt obligations. without sufficient liquidity, we could be forced to curtail certain of our operations, and our business could suffer. the principal sources of our liquidity are insurance premiums, annuity considerations, deposit funds and cash flow from our investment portfolio and assets, consisting mainly of cash or assets that are readily convertible into cash. sources of liquidity in normal markets also include a variety of short- and long-term instruments, including securities lending and repurchase agreements, commercial paper, medium and long-term debt and capital securities. 50 table of contents disruptions, uncertainty and volatility in the financial markets limited and, to the extent they persist or recur, may limit in the future our access to capital required to operate our business, most significantly our insurance and annuities operations. these market conditions may in the future limit our ability to replace, in a timely manner, maturing debt obligations and access the capital necessary to grow our business, replace capital withdrawn by customers or raise new capital required by our subsidiaries as a result of volatility in the markets. as a result, under such conditions we may be forced to delay raising capital, issue shorter tenor securities than would be optimal, bear an unattractive cost of capital or be unable to raise capital at any price, which could decrease our profitability and significantly reduce our financial flexibility. actions we might take to access financing may in turn cause rating agencies to reevaluate our ratings. our ability to borrow under our commercial paper programs is also dependent upon market conditions. future deterioration of our capital position at a time when we are unable to access the long-term debt or commercial paper markets could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. our internal sources of liquidity may prove to be insufficient. we may seek additional debt or equity financing to satisfy our needs. the availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the overall availability of credit to the financial services industry, and our credit ratings and credit capacity. we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. further, any future equity offerings would dilute the ownership interest of existing shareholders. the risk based capital, or rbc, ratio is a primary measure by which we and state insurance regulators evaluate the capital adequacy of prudential insurance and our other domestic life insurance subsidiaries, which includes businesses in both the financial services businesses and the closed block business. we manage prudential insurance and our other domestic life insurance subsidiaries rbc ratios to a level consistent with their ratings objectives; however, rating agencies take into account a variety of factors in assigning ratings to our insurance subsidiaries in addition to rbc levels. rbc is determined by statutory rules that consider risks related to the type and quality of the invested assets, insurance-related risks associated with prudential insurance products, interest rate risks and general business risks. the rbc ratio calculations are intended to assist insurance regulators in measuring the adequacy of prudential insurance statutory capitalization. adverse financial performance in the closed block business in prudential insurance, including adverse investment performance, may adversely affect prudential insurance rbc ratios, although dividends to closed block policyholders may be subsequently adjusted to reflect such performance. the failure of prudential insurance and our other domestic insurance subsidiaries to meet applicable rbc requirements or minimum statutory capital and surplus requirements could subject those subsidiaries to further examination or corrective action by state insurance regulators. the failure to maintain the rbc ratios of prudential insurance and our other domestic insurance subsidiaries at desired levels could also adversely impact our competitive position. in addition, rbc ratios may impact our credit and claims paying ratings. our international insurance companies are subject to conceptually similar measures of capital adequacy, including solvency margins for our japanese insurance companies, and we face similar risks as those described for our domestic companies in the event that we are unable to maintain these measures at adequate levels. u.s. and international insurance regulators may change capital requirements, as described herein. disruptions in the capital markets could adversely affect prudential financial and its subsidiaries ability to access sources of liquidity, as well as threaten to reduce our capital below a level that is consistent with our existing ratings objectives. therefore, we may need to take actions, which may include but are not limited to: (1) further access external sources of capital, including the debt or equity markets; (2) reduce or eliminate future shareholder dividends on our common stock; (3) undertake additional capital management activities, including reinsurance transactions; (4) limit or curtail sales of certain products and/or restructure existing products; (5) undertake further asset sales or internal asset transfers; (6) seek temporary or permanent changes to regulatory rules; and (7) maintain greater levels of cash balances or for longer periods thereby reducing investment returns. certain of these actions may require regulatory approval and/or agreement of counterparties which are outside of our control or have economic costs associated with them. our asset management operations include real estate held in prudential insurance separate accounts, for the benefit of clients, which enter into forward commitments that typically are funded from separate account assets and cash flows and related separate account funding sources. adverse credit and real estate capital market conditions affecting fund liquidity and the availability of financing could produce challenges in meeting these commitments in the normal course. in such cases, prudential insurance might be called upon or required to provide interim funding solutions, which could affect the availability of liquidity for other purposes. 51 table of contents an inability to access our credit facilities could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we maintain committed unsecured revolving credit facilities that, as of december 31, 2011, totaled $3.75 billion. we rely on these credit facilities as a potential source of liquidity which could be critical in enabling us to meet our obligations as they come due, particularly during periods when alternative sources of liquidity are limited. our ability to borrow under these facilities is conditioned on our satisfaction of covenants and other requirements contained in the facilities, such as prudential financial maintenance of a prescribed minimum level of consolidated net worth calculated in accordance with the applicable credit agreement. our failure to satisfy these and other requirements contained in the credit facilities would restrict our access to the facilities when needed and, consequently, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we have experienced and may experience additional downgrades in our financial strength or credit ratings. a downgrade or potential downgrade in our financial strength or credit ratings could limit our ability to market products, increase the number or value of policies being surrendered, increase our borrowing costs and/or hurt our relationships with creditors, trading counterparties or reinsurers and restrict our access to alternative sources of liquidity. financial strength ratings, which are sometimes referred to as claims-paying ratings, represent the opinions of rating agencies regarding the financial ability of an insurance company to meet its obligations under an insurance policy, and are important factors affecting public confidence in an insurer and its competitive position in marketing products, including prudential insurance and our other insurance company subsidiaries. credit ratings represent the opinions of rating agencies regarding an entity ability to repay its indebtedness, and prudential financial credit ratings are important to our ability to raise capital through the issuance of debt and to the cost of such financing. a downgrade in our financial strength or credit ratings could potentially, among other things, limit our ability to market products, reduce our competitiveness, increase the number or value of policy surrenders and withdrawals, increase our borrowing costs and potentially make it more difficult to borrow funds, adversely affect the availability of financial guarantees, such as letters of credit, cause additional collateral requirements or other required payments under certain agreements, allow counterparties to terminate derivative agreements, and/or hurt our relationships with creditors, distributors, reinsurers or trading counterparties thereby potentially negatively affecting our profitability, liquidity and/or capital. in addition, we consider our own risk of non-performance in determining the fair value of our liabilities, including insurance liabilities that are classified as embedded derivatives under u.s. gaap. therefore, changes in our credit or financial strength ratings may affect the fair value of our liabilities. for a description of material rating actions that have occurred from the beginning of 2011 through the date of this filing, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations ratings. prudential insurance has been a member of the federal home loan bank of new york, or fhlbny, since june 2008. membership allows prudential insurance access to fhlbny financial services, including the ability to obtain collateralized loans, and to issue collateralized funding agreements that can be used as an alternative source of liquidity. under fhlbny guidelines, if prudential insurance financial strength ratings decline below a/a2/a stable by s&amp;p, moody and fitch, respectively, and the fhlbny does not receive written assurances from the new jersey department of banking and insurance regarding prudential insurance solvency, new borrowings from the fhlbny would be limited to a term of 90 days or less. although prudential insurance ratings are currently at or above the required minimum levels, there can be no assurance that the ratings will remain at these levels in the future. we cannot predict what additional actions rating agencies may take, or what actions we may take in response to the actions of rating agencies, which could adversely affect our business. as with other companies in the financial services industry, our ratings could be downgraded at any time and without notice by any rating agency. 52 table of contents ratings downgrades and changes in credit spreads may require us to post collateral, thereby affecting our liquidity, and we may be unable to effectively implement certain capital management activities as a result, or for other reasons. a downgrade in the credit or financial strength ratings of prudential financial or its rated subsidiaries could result in additional collateral requirements or other required payments under certain agreements, including derivative agreements, which are eligible to be satisfied in cash or by posting securities held by the subsidiaries subject to the agreements. a ratings downgrade of three ratings levels from the ratings levels at december 31, 2011 (relating to financial strength ratings in certain cases and credit ratings in other cases) would result in estimated collateral posting requirements or payments under such agreements of approximately $75 million. in addition, a ratings downgrade by a.m. best to a- for our domestic life insurance companies would require prudential insurance to post a letter of credit in the amount of approximately $1.8 billion, based on the level of statutory reserves related to the variable annuity business acquired from allstate, that we estimate would result in annual cash outflows of approximately $28 million, or collateral posting in the form of cash or securities to be held in a trust. in addition, agreements in connection with capital management activities for our universal life insurance products would require us to post cash collateral based on tests that consider the level of 10-year credit default swap spreads on prudential financial senior debt. as of december 31, 2011, no collateral amounts were required to be paid. interest rate fluctuations or prolonged periods of low interest rates could adversely affect our businesses and profitability and require us to increase reserves and statutory capital. our insurance and annuity products and certain of our investment products, and our investment returns, are sensitive to interest rate fluctuations, and changes in interest rates could adversely affect our investment returns and results of operations, including in the following respects: some of our products expose us to the risk that changes in interest rates will reduce the spread between the amounts that we are required to pay under the contracts and the rate of return we are able to earn on our general account investments supporting the contracts. when interest rates decline, we have to reinvest the cash income from our investments in lower yielding instruments, potentially reducing net investment income. since many of our policies and contracts have guaranteed minimum interest or crediting rates or limit the resetting of interest rates, the spreads could decrease and potentially become negative. when interest rates rise, we may not be able to replace the assets in our general account as quickly with the higher yielding assets needed to fund the higher crediting rates necessary to keep these products and contracts competitive. in addition, rising interest rates could cause a decline in the market value of fixed income assets the company manages which in turn could result in lower asset management fees earned. changes in interest rates can also result in potential losses in our investment activities in which we borrow funds and purchase investments to earn additional spread income on the borrowed funds. when interest rates rise, policy loans and surrenders and withdrawals of life insurance policies and annuity contracts may increase as policyholders seek to buy products with perceived higher returns, requiring us to sell investment assets potentially resulting in realized investment losses, or requiring us to accelerate the amortization of dac, dsi or voba (each defined below). in addition, increasing interest rates could cause capital strain for japanese statutory reporting because the carrying value of bonds classified as available-for-sale would decline while the value of liabilities would generally remain unchanged. a decline in interest rates accompanied by unexpected prepayments of certain investments could result in reduced investments and a decline in our profitability. an increase in interest rates accompanied by unexpected extensions of certain lower yielding investments could result in a decline in our profitability. changes in interest rates coupled with accelerated client withdrawals for certain products can result in increased costs associated with our guarantees. changes in the relationship between long-term and short-term interest rates could adversely affect the profitability of some of our products. changes in interest rates could increase our costs of financing. 53 table of contents our mitigation efforts with respect to interest rate risk are primarily focused on maintaining an investment portfolio with diversified maturities that has a weighted average duration that is approximately equal to the duration of our estimated liability cash flow profile. however, our estimate of the liability cash flow profile may turn out to be inaccurate. in addition, there are practical and capital market limitations on our ability to accomplish this matching, especially in some of our asian operations. due to these and other factors we may need to liquidate investments prior to maturity at a loss in order to satisfy liabilities or be forced to reinvest funds in a lower rate environment. although we take measures to manage the economic risks of investing in a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to effectively mitigate, and we may sometimes choose based on economic considerations and other factors not to fully mitigate, the interest rate risk of our assets relative to our liabilities. for certain of our products, a delay between the time we make changes in interest rate and other assumptions used for product pricing and the time we are able to reflect these assumptions in products available-for-sale could negatively impact the long-term profitability of products sold during the intervening period. recent periods have been characterized by low interest rates. a prolonged period during which interest rates remain at levels lower than those anticipated in our pricing may result in greater costs associated with certain of our product features which guarantee death benefits or income streams for stated periods or for life; higher costs for derivative instruments used to hedge certain of our product risks; or shortfalls in investment income on assets supporting policy obligations, each of which may require us to record charges to increase reserves. in addition to compressing spreads and reducing net investment income, such an environment may cause policies to remain in force for longer periods than we anticipated in our pricing, potentially resulting in greater claims costs than we expected and resulting in lower overall returns on business in force. reflecting these impacts in recoverability and loss recognition testing under u.s. gaap may require us to accelerate the amortization of dac, dsi or voba as noted above, as well as to increase required reserves for future policyholder benefits. in addition, certain statutory capital and reserve requirements are based on formulas or models that consider interest rates, and a prolonged period of low interest rates may increase the statutory capital we are required to hold as well as the amount of assets we must maintain to support statutory reserves. our ability to meet obligations, pay shareholder dividends, and to engage in share repurchases may be adversely affected by limitations imposed on inter-affiliate distributions and transfers by prudential insurance and our other subsidiaries. prudential financial is the holding company for all our operations, and dividends, returns of capital and interest income from its subsidiaries are the principal source of funds available to prudential financial to pay shareholder dividends, to make share repurchases and to meet its other obligations. these sources of funds may be complemented by prudential financial access, if available, to the financial markets and bank facilities. as described under business regulation and in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources, our domestic and foreign insurance and various other subsidiary companies, including prudential insurance, are subject to regulatory limitations on the payment of dividends and on other transfers of funds to prudential financial. in addition to these regulatory limitations, the terms of the ihc debt contain restrictions potentially limiting dividends by prudential insurance applicable to the financial services businesses in the event the closed block business is in financial distress and under other circumstances. finally, our management of prudential insurance and other subsidiaries to have capitalization consistent with their ratings objectives itself may constrain their payment of dividends. these restrictions on prudential financial subsidiaries may limit or prevent such subsidiaries from making dividend payments to prudential financial in an amount sufficient to fund prudential financial obligations, shareholder dividends and share repurchases. from time to time, the national association of insurance commissioners, or naic, and various state and foreign insurance regulators have considered, and may in the future consider, proposals to further limit dividend payments that an insurance company may make without regulatory approval. difficult market conditions could also affect our ability to pay shareholder dividends and conduct share repurchases. 54 table of contents losses due to defaults by others, including issuers of investment securities or reinsurance, bond insurers and derivative instrument counterparties, downgrades in the ratings of securities we hold or of bond insurers, insolvencies of insurers in jurisdictions where we write business and other factors affecting our counterparties or the value of their securities could adversely affect the value of our investments, the realization of amounts contractually owed to us, result in assessments or additional statutory capital requirements or reduce our profitability or sources of liquidity. issuers and borrowers whose securities or loans we hold, customers, vendors, trading counterparties, counterparties under swaps and other derivative contracts, reinsurers, clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses and other financial intermediaries and guarantors, including bond insurers, may default on their obligations to us or be unable to perform service functions that are significant to our business due to bankruptcy, insolvency, lack of liquidity, adverse economic conditions, operational failure, fraud or other reasons. such defaults, instances of which have occurred in recent periods, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. a downgrade in the ratings of bond insurers could also result in declines in the value of our fixed maturity investments supported by guarantees from bond insurers. in addition, we use derivative instruments to hedge various risks, including certain guaranteed minimum benefits contained in many of our variable annuity products. we enter into a variety of derivative instruments, including options, forwards, interest rate, credit default and currency swaps with a number of counterparties. amounts that we expect to collect under current and future contracts, including, but not limited to reinsurance contracts, are subject to counterparty risk. our obligations under our products are not changed by our hedging activities and we are liable for our obligations even if our derivative counterparties, including reinsurers, do not pay us. this is a more pronounced risk to us in view of the recent stresses suffered by financial institutions. such defaults could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. under state insurance guaranty association laws and similar laws in international jurisdictions, we are subject to assessments, based on the share of business we write in the relevant jurisdiction, for certain obligations of insolvent insurance companies to policyholders and claimants. we use reinsurance as part of our capital management with respect to our closed block business. ratings downgrades or financial difficulties of reinsurers may require us to utilize additional capital with respect to the business. the eligible collateral that prudential insurance is required to pledge to the fhlbny in support of its borrowings includes qualifying mortgage-related assets, such as commercial mortgage-backed securities. the major rating agencies have downgraded the credit ratings of certain commercial mortgage-backed securities and may continue to do so. if future downgrades affect the commercial mortgage-backed securities pledged by prudential insurance to the fhlbny, those securities would no longer constitute eligible collateral under fhlbny guidelines. this could require prudential insurance to repay outstanding borrowings or to pledge replacement collateral to the fhlbny, which could materially reduce the company borrowing capacity from the fhlbny and/or prevent use of that replacement collateral for asset-based financing transactions. as described above, adverse market, economic and financial conditions in europe have given rise to a perceived risk of defaults on the government securities of certain european countries and potentially by financial institutions with significant direct or indirect exposure to such government securities, including countries and institutions in which we hold investments. for additional information concerning these investments, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations realized investment gains and losses and general account investments. guarantees within certain of our products that protect policyholders may decrease our earnings or increase the volatility of our results of operations or financial position under u.s. gaap if our hedging or risk management strategies prove ineffective or insufficient. certain of our products, particularly our variable annuity products, include guarantees of income streams for stated periods or for life. downturns in equity markets, increased equity volatility, or (as discussed above) reduced interest rates could result in an increase in the valuation of liabilities associated with such products, 55 table of contents resulting in increases in reserves and reductions in net income. we use a variety of hedging and risk management strategies, including product features, to mitigate these risks in part. these strategies may, however, not be fully effective. we may also choose not to fully hedge these risks. hedging instruments may not effectively offset the costs of guarantees or may otherwise be insufficient in relation to our obligations. hedging instruments also may not change in value correspondingly with associated liabilities due to equity market or interest rate conditions or other reasons. we sometimes choose to hedge these risks on a basis that does not correspond to their anticipated or actual impact upon our results of operations or financial position under u.s. gaap. for example, as discussed in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations results of operations for financial services businesses by segment u.s. retirement solutions and investment management division individual annuities, during the third quarter of 2010 we began to hedge certain risks associated with our variable annuity products on a basis that does not fully correspond to the associated u.s. gaap liability. changes from period to period in the valuation of these policy benefits, and in the amount of our obligations effectively hedged, will result in volatility in our results of operations and financial position under u.s. gaap. estimates and assumptions we make in connection with hedging activities may fail to reflect or correspond to our actual long-term exposure in respect of our guarantees. further, the risk of increases in the costs of our guarantees not covered by our hedging and other capital and risk management strategies may become more significant due to changes in policyholder behavior driven by market conditions or other factors. the above factors, individually or collectively, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. our profitability may decline if mortality rates, morbidity rates or persistency rates differ significantly from our pricing expectations. we set prices for many of our insurance and annuity products based upon expected claims and payment patterns, using assumptions for mortality (including longevity) rates, or likelihood of death, and morbidity rates, or likelihood of sickness or disability, of our policyholders. in addition to the potential effect of natural or man-made disasters, significant changes in mortality or morbidity could emerge gradually over time, due to changes in the natural environment, the health habits of the insured population, treatment patterns and technologies for disease or disability, the economic environment, or other factors. pricing of our insurance and deferred annuity products are also based in part upon expected persistency of these products, which is the probability that a policy or contract will remain in force from one period to the next. persistency within our individual annuities business may be significantly impacted by the value of guaranteed minimum benefits contained in many of our variable annuity products being higher than current account values in light of poor equity market performance or extended periods of low interest rates as well as other factors. persistency could be adversely affected generally by developments affecting client perception of us, including perceptions arising from adverse publicity. many of our products also provide our customers with wide flexibility with respect to the amount and timing of premium deposits and/or the amount and timing of withdrawals from the policy value. results may vary based on differences between actual and expected premium deposits and withdrawals for these products, especially if these product features are relatively new to the marketplace. the development of a secondary market for life insurance, including life settlements or viaticals and investor owned life insurance, and third-party investor strategies in the annuities business, could adversely affect the profitability of existing business and our pricing assumptions for new business. significant deviations in actual experience from our pricing assumptions could have an adverse effect on the profitability of our products. although some of our products permit us to increase premiums or adjust other charges and credits during the life of the policy or contract, the adjustments permitted under the terms of the policies or contracts may not be sufficient to maintain profitability or may cause policyholders to lapse. many of our products do not permit us to increase premiums or adjust other charges and credits or limit those adjustments during the life of the policy or contract. even if permitted under the policy or contract, we may not be able or willing to raise premiums or adjust other charges sufficiently, or at all, for regulatory or competitive reasons. if our reserves for future policyholder benefits and claims are inadequate, we may be required to increase our reserves, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we establish and carry reserves to pay future policyholder benefits and claims. our reserves do not represent an exact calculation of liability, but rather are actuarial or statistical estimates based on data and models 56 table of contents that include many assumptions and projections which are inherently uncertain and involve the exercise of significant judgment, including as to the levels of and/or timing of receipt or payment of premiums, benefits, claims, expenses, interest credits, investment results (including equity market returns), retirement, mortality, morbidity and persistency. we cannot determine with precision the ultimate amounts that we will pay for, or the timing of payment of, actual benefits, claims and expenses or whether the assets supporting our policy liabilities, together with future premiums, will be sufficient for payment of benefits and claims. if we conclude that our reserves, together with future premiums, are insufficient to cover future policy benefits and claims, we would be required to increase our reserves and incur income statement charges for the period in which we make the determination, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. for certain of our products, market performance and interest rates (as well as the regulatory environment, as discussed further below) impact the level of statutory reserves and statutory capital we are required to hold, and may have an adverse effect on returns on capital associated with these products. we finance noneconomic reserves associated with our individual life business. marketplace capacity for reserve funding structures may be limited as a result of market conditions generally. our ability to efficiently manage capital and economic reserve levels may be impacted, thereby impacting profitability and return on capital. we may be required to accelerate the amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs, or dac, deferred sales inducements, or dsi, or value of business acquired, or voba, or recognize impairment in the value of our goodwill or certain investments, or be required to establish a valuation allowance against deferred income tax assets, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. deferred policy acquisition costs, or dac, represent the costs that vary with and are related primarily to the acquisition of new and renewal insurance and annuity contracts, and we amortize these costs over the expected lives of the contracts. deferred sales inducements, or dsi, represent amounts that are credited to a policyholder account balance as an inducement to purchase the contract, and we amortize these costs over the expected lives of the contracts. value of business acquired, or voba, represents the present value of future profits embedded in acquired insurance, annuity and investment-type contracts and is amortized over the expected effective lives of the acquired contracts. management, on an ongoing basis, tests the dac, dsi and voba recorded on our balance sheet to determine if these amounts are recoverable under current assumptions. in addition, we regularly review the estimates and assumptions underlying dac, dsi and voba for those products for which we amortize dac, dsi and voba in proportion to gross profits or gross margins. given changes in facts and circumstances, these tests and reviews could lead to reductions in dac, dsi and/or voba that could have an adverse effect on the results of our operations and our financial condition. significant or sustained equity market declines as well as investment losses could result in acceleration of amortization of the dac, dsi and voba related to variable annuity and variable universal life contracts, resulting in a charge to income. as discussed earlier, the amortization of dac, dsi and voba are also sensitive to changes in interest rates. goodwill represents the excess of the amounts we paid to acquire subsidiaries and other businesses over the fair value of their net assets at the date of acquisition. goodwill is assessed annually for potential impairment, or more frequently if conditions warrant, by comparing the carrying value (equity attributed to a business to support its risk) of a business to its estimated fair value at that date. as of december 31, 2011, we had goodwill balances related to our retirement reporting unit, our asset management reporting unit and our international insurance reporting unit. market declines or other events impacting the fair value of these businesses, or increases in the level of equity required to support these businesses, could result in goodwill impairments, resulting in a charge to income. as of december 31, 2011, we had operating equity method investments within our international insurance segment. declines in the fair value of these investments may require that we review the remaining carrying value of these investments for potential impairment, and such review could result in impairments and charges to income. deferred income tax represents the tax effect of the differences between the book and tax basis of assets and liabilities. deferred tax assets are assessed periodically by management to determine if they are realizable. factors in management determination include the performance of the business including the geographic and legal entity source of our income, the ability to generate capital gains from a variety of sources, and tax planning 57 table of contents strategies. if based on available information, it is more likely than not that the deferred income tax asset will not be realized then a valuation allowance must be established with a corresponding charge to net income. such charges could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. changes in our discount rate, expected rate of return and expected compensation increase assumptions for our pension and other postretirement benefit plans may result in increased expenses and reduce our profitability. we determine our pension and other postretirement benefit plan costs based on assumed discount rates, expected rates of return on plan assets and expected increases in compensation levels and trends in health care costs. changes in these assumptions, including from the impact of a sustained low interest rate environment, may result in increased expenses and reduce our profitability. our valuation of fixed maturity, equity and trading securities may include methodologies, estimations and assumptions that are subject to differing interpretations and could result in changes to investment valuations that may materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. during periods of market disruption, it may be difficult to value certain of our securities, such as sub-prime mortgage-backed securities, if trading becomes less frequent and/or market data becomes less observable. there may be cases where certain asset classes that were in active markets with significant observable data become inactive or for which data becomes unobservable due to the current financial environment or market conditions. as a result, valuations may include inputs and assumptions that are less observable or require greater estimation and judgment as well as valuation methods which are more complex. these values may not be ultimately realizable in a market transaction, and such values may change very rapidly as market conditions change and valuation assumptions are modified. decreases in value may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. the decision on whether to record an other-than-temporary impairment or write-down is determined in part by management assessment of the financial condition and prospects of a particular issuer, projections of future cash flows and recoverability of the particular security. management conclusions on such assessments are highly judgmental and include assumptions and projections of future cash flows which may ultimately prove to be incorrect as assumptions, facts and circumstances change. for a discussion of certain fixed maturity securities where the estimated fair value has declined and remained below amortized cost by 20% or more, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations realized investment gains and losses and general account investments unrealized losses from fixed maturity securities. we may not be able to mitigate the reserve strain associated with regulation xxx and guideline axxx, potentially resulting in a negative impact on our capital position or in a need to increase prices and/or reduce sales of term or universal life products. the states of domicile of our domestic insurance subsidiaries have in place a regulation entitled valuation of life insurance policies, commonly known as regulation xxx, and a supporting guideline entitled the application of the valuation of life insurance policies, commonly known as guideline axxx. the regulation and supporting guideline require insurers to establish statutory reserves for term and universal life insurance policies with long-term premium guarantees that are consistent with the statutory reserves required for other individual life insurance policies with similar guarantees. many market participants believe that this level of reserves is excessive, and we have implemented reinsurance and capital management actions to mitigate the impact of regulation xxx and guideline axxx on our term and universal life insurance business. as we continue to underwrite term and universal life business, we expect to have borrowing needs to finance statutory reserves required under regulation xxx and guideline axxx. however, if we are unsuccessful in obtaining additional financing as a result of market conditions or otherwise, this could require us to increase prices and or/reduce our sales of term or universal life products and/or have a negative impact on our capital position. 58 table of contents we have substantial international operations and our international operations face political, legal, operational and other risks that could adversely affect those operations or our profitability. a substantial portion of our revenues and income from continuing operations is derived from our operations outside the u.s., primarily japan and korea. these operations are subject to restrictions on transferring funds out of the countries in which these operations are located. some of our foreign insurance and investment management operations are, and are likely to continue to be, in emerging markets where this risk, as well as risks of discriminatory regulation, labor issues in connection with workers associations and trade unions, price controls, currency exchange controls, nationalization or expropriation of assets, are heightened. if our business model is not successful in a particular country, we may lose all or most of our investment in building and training our sales force in that country. many of our insurance products sold in international markets provide for the buildup of cash values for the policyholder at contractually fixed guaranteed interest rates, including in japan. actual returns on the underlying investments do not necessarily match the guaranteed interest rates and there may be times when the spread between the actual investment returns and these guaranteed rates of return to the policyholder is negative and in which this negative spread may not be offset by the mortality, morbidity and expense charges we earn on the products. our international businesses are subject to the tax laws and regulations of the countries in which they are organized and in which they operate. foreign governments from time to time consider legislation that could increase the amount of taxes that we pay or impact the sales of our products. on december 31, 2011 korea rescinded the corporate tax decrease to 22% that was to be effective in 2012. therefore, the korean corporate tax rate remains at 24.2% for 2012 and thereafter. our international operations are often subject to value added tax and similar taxes in the countries in which they operate. japan ruling party has proposed to increase the 5% consumption tax to 8% in april 2014 and to 10% in october 2015. an increase to such tax rates could increase actual tax expense and reduce our consolidated net income. while no official announcement has been made, there is speculation that the japan national tax authority (nta) may reduce the corporate tax deductibility of premiums paid for cancer products. such a change could result in a decrease in the sale of such products in japan. our international operations are regulated in the jurisdictions in which they are located or operate. these regulations may apply heightened scrutiny to non-domestic companies, which can reduce our flexibility as to intercompany transactions, investments and other aspects of business operations and adversely affect our liquidity, profitability, and regulatory capital. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect our profitability, financial condition and cash flow. as a u.s.-based company with significant business operations outside the u.s., particularly in japan, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange risks that could reduce the u.s. dollar equivalent earnings and equity of these operations. we enter into derivative contracts in order to hedge the future income of certain of our international subsidiaries. further, our japanese subsidiaries hold u.s. dollar-denominated assets as a way for us to mitigate the effect of fluctuations in the yen exchange rate on our u.s. dollar-equivalent investment in these subsidiaries. we seek to mitigate any volatility in the local solvency margins of our japanese subsidiaries due to holding these u.s. dollar-denominated investments by entering into inter-company foreign currency hedges. currency fluctuations could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows or financial condition as a result of these hedging positions or due to foreign income or equity investments that are not hedged. a significant yen appreciation would require prudential financial to fund cash outflows under the derivative contracts related to our japanese subsidiaries and, as a result, could create a capital and liquidity strain on the company. additionally, a significant strengthening of the yen could adversely impact the value of the u.s. dollar-denominated investments held in our japanese subsidiaries and could result in additional liquidity or capital needs for our international insurance operations. our japanese insurance operations offer products denominated in non-yen currencies, with the liabilities for these products supported by investments denominated in the corresponding currencies. while these non-yen 59 table of contents denominated assets and liabilities are economically hedged, the accounting for changes in the value of these assets and liabilities due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates differs, resulting in volatility in our net income under u.s. gaap. for example, the non-yen denominated liabilities are remeasured quarterly for foreign currency exchange rate movements, with the related change in value recorded in net income. as such, a weakening of the yen compared to the currency denomination of the liabilities would result in a charge to u.s. gaap net income, while the change in value of the related available-for sale investments would be recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income. we hold investments denominated in foreign currencies in the general account of our domestic insurance subsidiaries. we generally seek to hedge this foreign currency exposure but there is no assurance that we will fully hedge this exposure or that such hedges will be effective. the value and liquidity of our foreign currency investments could be adversely affected by local adverse market, economic and financial conditions. for example, our investments denominated in euro could be adversely affected by the recent unfavorable economic conditions in europe, including due to potential changes in the euro or to the structure or membership of the european monetary union. intense competition, including the impact of government sponsored programs and other actions on us and our competitors, could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our market share or profitability. in each of our businesses we face intense competition from domestic and foreign insurance companies, asset managers and diversified financial institutions, both for the ultimate customers for our products and, in many businesses, for distribution through non-affiliated distribution channels. we compete based on a number of factors including brand recognition, reputation, quality of service, quality of investment advice, investment performance of our products, product features, scope of distribution and distribution arrangements, price, perceived financial strength and credit and financial strength ratings. a decline in our competitive position as to one or more of these factors could adversely affect our profitability and assets under management. many of our competitors are large and well-established and some have greater market share or breadth of distribution, offer a broader range of products, services or features, assume a greater level of risk, have lower profitability expectations or have higher financial strength or credit ratings than we do. the proliferation and growth of non-affiliated distribution channels puts pressure on our captive sales channels to increase their productivity and reduce their costs in order to remain competitive, and we run the risk that the marketplace will make a more significant or rapid shift to non-affiliated or direct distribution alternatives than we anticipate or are able to achieve ourselves, potentially adversely affecting our market share and results of operations. in certain countries in which we operate internationally, we face competition from government owned entities that benefit from pricing or other competitive advantages. the competitive landscape in which we operate may be further affected by government sponsored programs, as well as by longer term fiscal policies, adopted in the u.s. and outside of the u.s. in response to dislocations in financial markets and the economy. competitors that receive governmental financing or other assistance or subsidies, including governmental guarantees of their obligations, or that are not subject to the same regulatory constraints, may have or obtain pricing or other competitive advantages. changes in laws and regulations in response to adverse market and economic conditions may result in us being classified differently than competitors for purposes of capital and other requirements, potentially affecting our ability to compete and the competitive landscape generally. competition for personnel in all of our businesses is intense, including for executive officers and management personnel, prudential agents, life planners, life advisors and other sales personnel, and our investment managers. we devote significant efforts to talent management and development and are subject to the risk that executive, management and other personnel will be hired or recruited by competitors. competition for desirable non-affiliated distribution channels is also intense. the loss of key personnel or non-affiliated distribution channels could have an adverse effect on our business and profitability. we may experience difficulty in marketing and distributing products through our current and future distribution channels. although we distribute our products through a wide variety of distribution channels, we do maintain relationships with certain key distributors. for example, a significant amount of our sales in japan through banks 60 table of contents is derived through a single japanese mega-bank and a significant portion of our sales in japan through life advisors is derived through a single association relationship. we periodically negotiate the terms of these relationships, and there can be no assurance that such terms will remain acceptable to us or such third parties. an interruption in certain key relationships could materially affect our ability to market our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. distributors may elect to reduce or terminate their distribution relationships with us, including for such reasons as adverse developments in our business, adverse rating agency actions or concerns about market-related risks. we are also at risk that key distribution partners may merge, change their business models in ways that affect how our products are sold, or terminate their distribution contracts with us, or that new distribution channels could emerge and adversely impact the effectiveness of our distribution efforts. an increase in bank and broker-dealer consolidation activity could increase competition for access to distributors, result in greater distribution expenses and impair our ability to market products through these channels. consolidation of distributors and/or other industry changes may also increase the likelihood that distributors will try to renegotiate the terms of any existing selling agreements to terms less favorable to us. when our products are distributed through unaffiliated firms, we may not be able to monitor or control the manner of their distribution despite our training and compliance programs. if our products are distributed by such firms in an inappropriate manner, or to customers for whom they are unsuitable, we may suffer reputational and other harms to our business. our businesses are heavily regulated and changes in regulation may reduce our profitability. our businesses are subject to comprehensive regulation and supervision. the purpose of this regulation is primarily to protect our customers and not necessarily our shareholders. many of the laws and regulations to which we are subject, including those to which our international businesses are subject, are regularly re-examined, and existing or future laws and regulations may become more restrictive or otherwise adversely affect our operations. the financial market dislocations we have experienced have produced, and are expected to continue to produce, extensive changes in existing laws and regulations, and regulatory frameworks, applicable to our businesses in the u.s. and internationally. prudential financial is subject to the rules and regulations of the sec and the nyse relating to public reporting and disclosure, securities trading, accounting and financial reporting, and corporate governance matters. the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and rules and regulations adopted in furtherance of that act have substantially increased the requirements in these and other areas for public companies such as prudential financial. many insurance regulatory and other governmental or self-regulatory bodies have the authority to review our products and business practices and those of our agents and employees and to bring regulatory or other legal actions against us if, in their view, our practices, or those of our agents or employees, are improper. these actions can result in substantial fines, penalties or prohibitions or restrictions on our business activities and could adversely affect our business, reputation, results of operations or financial condition. for a discussion of material pending litigation and regulatory matters, see commitments and guarantees, contingent liabilities and litigation and regulatory matters in the notes to consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k. congress from time to time considers pension reform legislation that could decrease or increase the attractiveness of certain of our retirement products and services to retirement plan sponsors and administrators, or have an unfavorable or favorable effect on our ability to earn revenues from these products and services. in this regard, the pension protection act of 2006 ( ppa ) made significant changes in employer pension funding obligations associated with defined benefit pension plans which are likely to increase sponsors costs of maintaining these plans. over time, these changes could hinder our sales of defined benefit pension products and services and cause sponsors to discontinue existing plans for which we provide asset management, administrative, or other services, but could increase the attractiveness of certain products we offer in connection with terminating or ongoing pension plans. the worker, retiree and employer recovery act (the employer recovery act ) was passed in december 2008 in response to the financial crisis that began in the last half of 2007. the employer recovery act modifies the method of calculating a plan assets for purposes of satisfying 61 table of contents the minimum funding rules set forth in the ppa, and ameliorates the financial impact of a plan not meeting its current funding target. as a result, the employer recovery act may have the effect of delaying some of the positive and negative impacts of the ppa on our business. insurance regulators have implemented changes in the way in which companies must determine statutory reserves for variable annuities and products with similar guarantees as of the end of 2009. insurance regulators continue to proceed to develop a principles based reserving approach for life insurance products. the timing and the effect of these changes are still uncertain. currently, there are several proposals to amend state insurance holding company laws to increase the scope of the regulation of insurance holding companies (such as prudential financial). these proposals include imposing standards for insurer corporate governance, risk management, group-wide supervision of insurance holding companies, adjustments to risk-based capital calculations to account for group-wide risks, and additional regulatory and disclosure requirements for insurance holding companies. in addition, state insurance regulators have focused attention on u.s. insurance solvency regulation pursuant to the naic solvency modernization initiative , including regulatory review of companies risk management practices and analyses. at this time, we cannot predict with any degree of certainty what additional capital requirements, compliance costs or other burdens these requirements may impose on prudential financial. compliance with applicable laws and regulations is time consuming and personnel-intensive, and changes in these laws and regulations may materially increase our direct and indirect compliance and other expenses of doing business, thus having a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. see business regulation for further discussion of the impact of regulations on our businesses. the enactment of the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act will subject us to substantial additional federal regulation and we cannot predict the effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. on july 21, 2010, president obama signed into law the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act ( dodd-frank ), which effects comprehensive changes to the regulation of financial services in the united states and subjects us to substantial additional federal regulation. dodd-frank directs existing and newly-created government agencies and bodies to promulgate regulations implementing the law, a process that is underway and expected to continue over the next few years. we cannot predict with any certainty the requirements of the regulations not yet adopted or how dodd-frank and such regulations will affect the financial markets generally, impact our business, credit or financial strength ratings, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition or advise or require us to hold or raise additional capital. key aspects we have identified to date of dodd-frank potential impact on us include: if designated by the newly established financial stability oversight council ( council ) as a systemically significant company, we would become subject to stricter prudential standards, including stricter requirements and limitations relating to risk-based capital, leverage, liquidity and credit exposure, as well as overall risk management requirements, management interlock prohibitions and a requirement to maintain a plan for rapid and orderly dissolution in the event of severe financial distress. failure to meet defined measures of financial condition could result in substantial restrictions on our business and capital distributions. we would also become subject to stress tests to be promulgated by the board of governors of the federal reserve system ( frb ) which could cause us to alter our business practices or affect the perceptions of regulators, rating agencies, customers, counterparties or investors of our financial strength. we cannot predict whether prudential financial or a subsidiary will be designated as a systemically significant company. until our intended deregistration as a savings and loan holding company in 2012 is effective, prudential financial is also subject as a savings and loan holding company to regulation by the frb, which has authority, among other powers, to impose capital requirements on the company as well as stress testing. the council could recommend new or heightened standards and safeguards for activities or practices we and other financial services companies engage in. we cannot predict whether any such recommendations will be made or their effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. 62 table of contents absent our intended conversion of our federal thrift to a trust-only operation, we would become subject to the volcker rule provisions of dodd-frank prohibiting, subject to the rule exceptions, proprietary trading and the sponsorship of, and investment in, funds (referred to in dodd-frank as hedge funds or private equity funds) that rely on certain exemptions from the investment company act of 1940, as amended (collectively, covered funds ). absent our conversion to a trust-only bank, proposed regulations would require us to dispose of covered fund investments, significantly alter our business practices in these operations and/or diminish the attractiveness of our covered fund products to clients. in addition, actions taken by other financial entities in response to the volcker rule could potentially negatively affect the market for, returns from or liquidity of our investments in covered funds affiliated with such other financial entities. dodd-frank creates a new framework for regulation of the over-the-counter ( otc ) derivatives markets which could impact various activities of prudential global funding ( pgf ), prudential financial and our insurance subsidiaries, which use derivatives for various purposes (including hedging interest rate, foreign currency and equity market exposures). final regulations adopted could substantially increase the cost of hedging and related operations, affect the profitability of our products or their attractiveness to our clients or cause us to alter our hedging strategy or implementation thereof or increase and/or change the composition of the risks we do not hedge. dodd-frank establishes a federal insurance office within the department of the treasury which performs various functions with respect to insurance and is required to conduct a study on how to modernize and improve the system of insurance regulation in the united states, including by increased national uniformity through either a federal charter or effective action by the states. until deregistration as a savings and loan holding company is effective, and thereafter if we are designated as a systemically significant company, the frb could require us to legally separate our financial and non-financial activities. while our non-financial activities are minor, the imposition of such a requirement on us could be burdensome and costly to implement. title ii of dodd-frank provides that a financial company such as prudential financial may be subject to a special orderly liquidation process outside the federal bankruptcy code, administered by the fdic as receiver, upon a determination that the company is in default or in danger of default and presents a systemic risk to u.s. financial stability. we cannot predict how creditors of prudential financial or its insurance and non-insurance subsidiaries, including the holders of prudential financial debt, will evaluate this potential or whether it will impact our financing or hedging costs. dodd-frank includes various securities law reforms that may affect our business practices and the liabilities and/or exposures associated therewith. dodd-frank will and could impose various assessments on us, which we are unable to estimate at this time. see business regulation for further discussion of the impact of dodd-frank on our businesses. foreign governmental actions in response to the recent financial crisis could subject us to substantial additional regulation. in addition to the adoption of dodd-frank in the united states, the financial stability board (fsb), consisting of representatives of national financial authorities of the g20 nations, and the g20 have issued a series of papers and recommendations intended to produce significant changes in how financial companies, particularly companies that are members of large and complex financial groups, should be regulated. the lawmakers and regulatory authorities in a number of jurisdictions in which we do business have already begun introducing legislative and regulatory changes consistent with g20 and fsb recommendations, including proposals governing consolidated regulation of insurance holdings companies by the financial services agency (fsa) in japan, proposals governing executive compensation by the financial regulators in germany (bafin) and the united kingdom (fsa), and proposals to permit u.s.-style class action litigation in the united kingdom with respect to financial services claims. in addition, the prudential regulation of insurance and reinsurance companies across the european economic area (eea) is due for significant change under the solvency ii directive, which was adopted on november 25, 2009 and is expected to come into force in january 2014. this new regime will 63 table of contents effect a full revision of the insurance industry solvency framework and prudential regime and may have significant implications for non-european insurance groups, like ourselves, that have established insurance undertakings (whether branches or subsidiaries) within the eea. we cannot predict with any certainty the effect these initiatives may have on the financial markets or on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. as described above, adverse market, economic and financial conditions in europe have given rise to a perceived risk of defaults on the government securities of certain european countries and potentially by financial institutions with significant direct or indirect exposure to such government securities. further regulatory initiatives may develop in response to these conditions and related political and economic events such as possible changes in the euro or to the structure or membership of the european monetary union. changes in accounting requirements could negatively impact our reported results of operations and our reported financial position. accounting standards are continuously evolving and subject to change. for example, the sec is considering requiring companies like prudential financial to report financial results in accordance with international financial reporting standards ( ifrs ) as issued by the international accounting standards board rather than u.s. gaap. regardless of whether the sec requires ifrs, u.s. gaap may undergo extensive changes as a result of current standard setting initiatives of the financial accounting standards board. these and other changes in accounting standards may impose special demands on issuers in areas such as corporate governance, internal controls and disclosure. changes in accounting standards, or their interpretation, may negatively affect our reported results of operations and our reported financial condition. changes in u.s. federal income tax law or in the income tax laws of other jurisdictions in which we operate could make some of our products less attractive to consumers and increase our tax costs. there is uncertainty regarding u.s. taxes both for individuals and corporations in light of the fact that many tax provisions recently enacted or extended began to sunset at the end of 2011. in addition, the recommendations made by the president bipartisan national commission on fiscal responsibility and reform and other deficit reduction panels suggest the need to reform the u.s. tax code. congress has held a number of hearings devoted to tax reform. some of those hearings have discussed lowering the tax rates and broadening the base by reducing or eliminating certain tax expenditures. reducing or eliminating certain tax expenditures could make our products less attractive to customers. it is unclear whether or when congress may take up overall tax reform and what would be the impact of reform on the company and its products. however even in the absence of overall tax reform, the large federal deficit, as well as the budget constraints faced by many states and localities, increases the likelihood that congress and state and local governments will raise revenue by enacting legislation increasing the taxes paid by individuals and corporations. this can be accomplished either by raising rates or otherwise changing the tax rules. while higher tax rates increase the benefits of tax deferral on the build-up of value of annuities and life insurance, making our products more attractive to consumers, legislation that reduces or eliminates deferral would have a potential negative effect on our products. in addition, changes in the tax rules that result in higher corporate taxes will increase the company actual tax expense, thereby reducing earnings. current u.s. federal income tax laws generally permit certain holders to defer taxation on the build-up of value of annuities and life insurance products until payments are actually made to the policyholder or other beneficiary and to exclude from taxation the death benefit paid under a life insurance contract. congress from time to time considers legislation that could make our products less attractive to consumers, including legislation that would reduce or eliminate the benefit of this deferral on some annuities and insurance products, such as a reduction in income tax rates. other legislative changes, such as changes to the estate tax, also could reduce or eliminate the attractiveness of annuities and life insurance products to consumers. 64 table of contents for example, the estate tax was completely eliminated for 2010, but modified carryover basis rules applied for property acquired from decedent dying in that year. the estate tax has been reinstated through 2012 with a $5 million individual exemption, a 35% maximum rate and step-up in basis rules for property acquired from a decedent. estates of decedents who died in 2010 can choose between the rules that were in effect in 2010 or the new rules. on february 13, 2012, the obama administration released the general explanations of the administration revenue proposals, or revenue proposals. the revenue proposals include a provision that would make permanent a $3.5 million individual exemption and a 45% maximum estate tax rate. it is unclear what congress will do with respect to the estate tax after 2012. this uncertainty makes estate planning difficult and may impact sales of our products. congress, as well as state and local governments, also considers from time to time legislation that could increase the amount of corporate taxes we pay. for example, changes in the law relating to tax reserving methodologies for term life or universal life insurance policies with secondary guarantees or other products could result in higher current taxes. the u.s. treasury department and the internal revenue service have indicated that they intend to address through guidance the methodology to be followed in determining the dividends received deduction, or drd, related to variable life insurance and annuity contracts. the drd reduces the amount of dividend income subject to tax and is a significant component of the difference between our actual tax expense and the expected tax amount determined using the federal statutory tax rate of 35%. a change in the drd, including the possible retroactive or prospective elimination of this deduction through guidance or legislation, could increase our actual tax expense and reduce our consolidated net income. the revenue proposals include proposals which, if enacted, would affect the taxation of life insurance companies and certain life insurance products. in particular, the proposals would affect the treatment of corporate owned life insurance policies, or coli, by limiting the availability of certain interest deductions for companies that purchase those policies. the proposals would also change the method used to determine the amount of dividend income received by a life insurance company on assets held in separate accounts used to support products, including variable life insurance and variable annuity contracts that are eligible for the drd. if proposals of this type were enacted, the company sale of coli, variable annuities, and variable life insurance products could be adversely affected and the company actual tax expense could increase, thereby reducing earnings. the revenue proposals also include changes to the method by which u.s. multinational corporations claim foreign tax credits and the timing of the deduction for interest expense that is allocable to foreign-source income. if proposals of this type were enacted, the company actual tax expense could increase, thereby reducing earnings. congress failed to extend a number of tax provisions that expired at the end of 2011. one such provision provides tax deferral for investment income earned by a foreign insurance operation until the income is repatriated to the u.s. although congress may, as it has done in the past, extend retroactively all expired provisions, the failure of congress to do so will subject the company to current u.s. tax on investment income earned by its foreign insurance operations. if this provision is not extended, the company actual tax expense would increase, reducing earnings. the products we sell have different tax characteristics, in some cases generating tax deductions. the level of profitability of certain of our products is significantly dependent on these characteristics and our ability to continue to generate taxable income, which is taken into consideration when pricing products and is a component of our capital management strategies. accordingly, changes in tax law, our ability to generate taxable income, or other factors impacting the availability or value of the tax characteristics generated by our products, could impact product pricing and returns or require us to reduce our sales of these products or implement other actions that could be disruptive to our businesses. in addition, the adoption of principles based approaches for statutory reserves may lead to significant changes to the way tax reserves are determined and thus reduce future tax deductions. 65 table of contents legal and regulatory actions are inherent in our businesses and could adversely affect our results of operations or financial position or harm our businesses or reputation. we are, and in the future may be, subject to legal and regulatory actions in the ordinary course of our businesses, including in businesses that we have divested or placed in wind-down status. some of these proceedings have been brought on behalf of various alleged classes of complainants. in certain of these matters, the plaintiffs are seeking large and/or indeterminate amounts, including punitive or exemplary damages. legal liability or adverse publicity in respect of these or future legal or regulatory actions could have an adverse affect on us or cause us reputational harm, which in turn could harm our business prospects. material pending litigation and regulatory matters affecting us, and certain risks to our businesses presented by such matters, are discussed under commitments and guarantees, contingent liabilities and litigation and regulatory matters in the notes to consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k. our litigation and regulatory matters are subject to many uncertainties, and given their complexity and scope, their outcome cannot be predicted. our reserves for litigation and regulatory matters may prove to be inadequate. it is possible that our results of operations or cash flow in a particular quarterly or annual period could be materially affected by an ultimate unfavorable resolution of pending litigation and regulatory matters depending, in part, upon the results of operations or cash flow for such period. in light of the unpredictability of the company litigation and regulatory matters, it is also possible that in certain cases an ultimate unfavorable resolution of one or more pending litigation or regulatory matters could have a material adverse effect on the company financial position. we may not be able to protect our intellectual property and may be subject to infringement claims. we rely on a combination of contractual rights with third parties and copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws to establish and protect our intellectual property. although we endeavor to protect our rights, third parties may infringe or misappropriate our intellectual property. we may have to litigate to enforce and protect our copyrights, trademarks, patents, trade secrets and know-how or to determine their scope, validity or enforceability. this would represent a diversion of resources that may be significant and our efforts may not prove successful. the inability to secure or protect our intellectual property assets could have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to compete. we may be subject to claims by third parties for (i) patent, trademark or copyright infringement, (ii) breach of copyright, trademark or license usage rights, or (iii) misappropriation of trade secrets. any such claims and any resulting litigation could result in significant expense and liability for damages. if we were found to have infringed or misappropriated a third-party patent or other intellectual property right, we could in some circumstances be enjoined from providing certain products or services to our customers or from utilizing and benefiting from certain methods, processes, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets or licenses. alternatively, we could be required to enter into costly licensing arrangements with third parties or implement a costly work around. any of these scenarios could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. the occurrence of natural or man-made disasters could adversely affect our operations, results of operations and financial condition. the occurrence of natural disasters, including hurricanes, floods, earthquakes, tsunamis, tornadoes, fires, explosions, pandemic disease and man-made disasters, including acts of terrorism and military actions, could adversely affect our operations, results of operations or financial condition, including in the following respects: catastrophic loss of life due to natural or man-made disasters could cause us to pay benefits at higher levels and/or materially earlier than anticipated and could lead to unexpected changes in persistency rates. a natural or man-made disaster could result in disruptions in our operations, losses in our investment portfolio or the failure of our counterparties to perform, or cause significant volatility in global financial markets. a terrorist attack affecting financial institutions in the united states or elsewhere could negatively impact the financial services industry in general and our business operations, investment portfolio and profitability in particular. 66 table of contents pandemic disease, caused by a virus such as h5n1, the avian flu virus, or h1n1, the swine flu virus, could have a severe adverse effect on prudential financial business. the potential impact of such a pandemic on prudential financial results of operations and financial position is highly speculative, and would depend on numerous factors, including: in the case of the avian flu virus, the probability of the virus mutating to a form that can be passed easily from human to human; the effectiveness of vaccines and the rate of contagion; the regions of the world most affected; the effectiveness of treatment for the infected population; the rates of mortality and morbidity among various segments of the insured versus the uninsured population; the collectability of reinsurance; the possible macroeconomic effects of a pandemic on the company asset portfolio; the effect on lapses and surrenders of existing policies, as well as sales of new policies; and many other variables. there can be no assurance that our business continuation plans and insurance coverages would be effective in mitigating any negative effects on our operations or profitability in the event of a terrorist attack or other disaster. climate change, and its regulation, may affect the prospects of companies and other entities whose securities we hold and other counterparties, including reinsurers, and affect the value of investments, including real estate investments we hold or manage for others. our current evaluation is that the near term effects of climate change and climate change regulation on the company are not material, but we cannot predict the long term impacts on us from climate change or its regulation. our risk management policies and procedures and our minority investments in joint ventures may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk, which could adversely affect our businesses or result in losses. our policies, procedures and controls to monitor and manage risks, including hedging programs that utilize derivative financial instruments, may not be fully effective in achieving their purposes and may leave us exposed to unidentified and unanticipated risks. the company uses models in its hedging programs and many other aspects of its operations, including but not limited to the estimation of actuarial reserves, the amortization of deferred acquisition costs and the value of business acquired, and the valuation of certain other assets and liabilities. these models rely on assumptions and projections that are inherently uncertain. management of operational, legal and regulatory risks requires, among other things, policies, procedures and controls to record properly and verify a large number of transactions and events, and these policies, procedures and controls may not be fully effective. past or future misconduct by our employees or employees of our vendors could result in violations of law by us, regulatory sanctions and/or serious reputational or financial harm and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. although we employ controls and procedures designed to monitor associates business decisions and prevent us from taking excessive or inappropriate risks, there can be no assurance that these controls and procedures are or may be effective. we review our compensation policies and practices as part of our overall risk management program, but it is possible that our compensation policies and practices could inadvertently incentivize excessive or inappropriate risk taking. if our associates take excessive or inappropriate risks, those risks could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. in our investments in which we hold a minority interest, or that are managed by third parties, we lack management and operational control over operations, which may prevent us from taking or causing to be taken actions to protect or increase the value of those investments. in those jurisdictions where we are constrained by law from owning a majority interest in jointly owned operations, our remedies in the event of a breach by a joint venture partner may be limited (e.g., we may have no ability to exercise a call option). interruption in telecommunication, information technology and other operational systems, or a failure to maintain the security, confidentiality or privacy of sensitive data residing on such systems, could harm our business. we depend heavily on our telecommunication, information technology and other operational systems and on the integrity and timeliness of data we use to run our businesses and service our customers. these systems may 67 table of contents fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events or circumstances wholly or partly beyond our control. further, we face the risk of operational and technology failures by others, including clearing agents, exchanges and other financial intermediaries and of vendors and parties to which we outsource the provision of services or business operations. if these parties do not perform as anticipated, we may experience operational difficulties, increased costs and other adverse effects on our business. these risks are heightened by our offering of increasingly complex products, such as those that feature automatic asset transfer or re-allocation strategies, and by our employment of complex investment, trading and hedging programs. despite our implementation of a variety of security measures, our information technology and other systems could be subject to physical or electronic break-ins, unauthorized tampering or other security breaches, resulting in a failure to maintain the security, confidentiality or privacy of sensitive data, including personal information relating to customers, or in the misappropriation of our intellectual property or proprietary information. interruption in telecommunication, information technology and other operational systems, or a failure to maintain the security, confidentiality or privacy of sensitive data residing on such systems, whether due to actions by us or others, could delay or disrupt our ability to do business and service our customers, harm our reputation, subject us to regulatory sanctions and other claims, lead to a loss of customers and revenues and otherwise adversely affect our business. we face risks arising from acquisitions, divestitures and restructurings, including client losses, surrenders and withdrawals, difficulties in integrating and realizing the projected results of acquisitions and contingent liabilities with respect to dispositions. we face a number of risks arising from acquisition transactions, including the risk that, following the acquisition or reorganization of a business, we could experience client losses, surrenders or withdrawals or other results materially different from those we anticipate, as well as difficulties in integrating and realizing the projected results of acquisitions and restructurings and managing the litigation and regulatory matters to which acquired entities are party. we have retained insurance or reinsurance obligations and other contingent liabilities in connection with our divestiture or winding down of various businesses, and our reserves for these obligations and liabilities may prove to be inadequate. these risks may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. we are subject to risks relating to the acquisition, and post-acquisition operations, of the star and edison businesses in japan. on february 1, 2011, we completed the acquisition from american international group, inc. ( aig ) of aig star life insurance co., ltd. ( star ) and aig edison life insurance company ( edison ) and certain other aig subsidiaries in japan (the acquisition ). for a description of the acquired businesses (collectively, the star and edison businesses ) and the acquisition, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations under results of operations for financial services businesses by segment international insurance division and liquidity and capital resources. on january 1, 2012, we merged star and edison into gibraltar life. notwithstanding the merger, we are subject to certain risks relating to the acquisition and the star and edison businesses, which risks could adversely affect, possibly materially, our business, results of operations, financial position or liquidity or prevent us from realizing the expected benefits from the acquisition. these risks include the following: we may experience difficulties in integrating the star and edison businesses and the process of integration may take longer than expected. our ability to achieve the benefits we anticipate from the acquisition will depend upon whether we are able to integrate the star and edison businesses into our existing japanese business in an efficient and effective manner. the integration of certain operations will require the dedication of significant management resources over a long period, which may distract management attention from day-to-day business operations. we have begun and expect to continue to incur significant one-time costs in connection with the acquisition and the related integration of the star and edison businesses. the costs and liabilities actually incurred in connection with the acquisition and subsequent integration process may exceed those anticipated. we may not realize cost savings, efficiencies or synergies that we anticipate. 68 table of contents there is the risk that we will be exposed to obligations and liabilities of star and edison that are not adequately covered, in amount, scope or duration, by the indemnification provisions in the stock purchase agreement or reflected or reserved for in the historical financial statements of the star and edison businesses, and there is the risk that such historical financial statements may contain errors. the star and edison businesses are also subject to many of the other risks described in this section to which our existing businesses, particularly those in japan, are subject, including but not limited to risks associated with economic, market and political conditions, capital and liquidity, foreign exchange fluctuations and regulatory and legal matters. regulatory requirements could delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that shareholders might consider in their best interests. various states in which our insurance companies are domiciled, including new jersey, must approve any direct or indirect change of control of insurance companies organized in those states. under most states statutes, an entity is presumed to have control of an insurance company if it owns, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of the voting stock of that insurance company or its parent company. federal, and in some cases, state, banking authorities would also have to approve the indirect change of control of our banking operations. the federal securities laws could also require reapproval by customers of our investment advisory contracts to manage mutual funds, including mutual funds included in annuity products, upon a change in control. in addition, the new jersey business corporation act prohibits certain business combinations with interested shareholders. these regulatory and other restrictions may delay a potential merger or sale of prudential financial, even if the board of directors decides that it is in the best interests of shareholders to merge or be sold. holders of our common stock are subject to risks due to the issuance of our class b stock, a second class of common stock. the businesses of prudential financial are separated into the financial services businesses and the closed block business, and our common stock reflects the performance of the financial services businesses and the class b stock reflects the performance of the closed block business. there are a number of risks to holders of our common stock by virtue of this dual common stock structure, including: even though we allocate all our consolidated assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses and cash flow between the financial services businesses and the closed block business for financial statement purposes, there is no legal separation between the financial services businesses and the closed block business. holders of common stock have no interest in a separate legal entity representing the financial services businesses; holders of the class b stock have no interest in a separate legal entity representing the closed block business; and therefore holders of each class of common stock are subject to all of the risks associated with an investment in the company. the financial results of the closed block business, including debt service on the ihc debt, will affect prudential financial consolidated results of operations, financial position and borrowing costs. the market value of our common stock may not reflect solely the performance of the financial services businesses. we cannot pay cash dividends on our common stock for any period if we choose not to pay dividends on the class b stock in an aggregate amount at least equal to the lesser of the cb distributable cash flow or the target dividend amount on the class b stock for that period. see market for registrant common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities convertibility for the definition of these terms. any net losses of the closed block business, and any dividends or distributions on, or repurchases of the class b stock, would reduce the assets of prudential financial legally available for dividends on the common stock. net income for the financial services businesses and the closed block business includes general and administrative expenses charged to each of the respective businesses based on the company methodology for the allocation of such expenses. cash flows to the financial services businesses from 69 table of contents the closed block business related to administrative expenses are determined by a policy servicing fee arrangement that is based upon insurance and policies in force and statutory cash premiums. the difference between the administrative expenses allocated to the closed block business and these cash flow amounts are recorded, on an after tax basis, as direct equity adjustments to the equity balances of the businesses and included in the determination of earnings per share for each business. a change in cash flow amounts between the businesses that is inconsistent with changes in general and administrative expenses we incur will affect the earnings per share of the common stock and class b stock. holders of common stock and class b stock vote together as a single class of common stock under new jersey law, except as otherwise required by law and except that the holders of the class b stock have class voting or consent rights with respect to specified matters directly affecting the class b stock. shares of class b stock are entitled to a higher proportionate amount upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of prudential financial, than shares of common stock. we may exchange the class b stock for shares of common stock at any time, and the class b stock is mandatorily exchangeable in the event of a sale of all or substantially all of the closed block business or a change of control of prudential financial. under these circumstances, shares of class b stock would be exchanged for shares of common stock with an aggregate average market value equal to 120% of the then appraised fair market value of the class b stock. for a description of change of control and fair market value, see market for registrant common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities convertibility. holders of class b stock may at their discretion, beginning in 2016, and at any time in the event of specified regulatory events, convert their shares of class b stock into shares of common stock with an aggregate average market value equal to 100% of the then appraised fair market value of the class b stock. any exchange or conversion could occur at a time when either or both of the common stock and class b stock may be considered overvalued or undervalued. accordingly, any such exchange or conversion may be disadvantageous to holders of common stock. our board of directors has adopted certain policies regarding inter-business transfers and accounting and tax matters, including the allocation of earnings, with respect to the financial services businesses and closed block business. although the board of directors may change any of these policies, any such decision is subject to the board of directors general fiduciary duties, and we have agreed with investors in the class b stock and the insurer of the ihc debt that, in most cases, the board of directors may not change these policies without their consent. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 251 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management, market risk and derivative instruments risk management includes the identification and measurement of various forms of risk, the establishment of risk thresholds and the creation of processes intended to maintain risks within these thresholds while optimizing returns on the underlying assets or liabilities. we consider risk management an integral part of managing our core businesses. market risk is the risk of change in the value of financial instruments as a result of absolute or relative changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, equity prices or commodity prices. to varying degrees, the investment and trading activities supporting all of our products and services generate exposure to market risk. the market risk incurred and our strategies for managing this risk vary by product. with respect to non-variable life insurance products, fixed-rate annuities, the fixed-rate accounts in our variable life insurance and annuity products, and other finance businesses, we incur market risk primarily in the form of interest rate risk. we manage this risk through asset/liability management and derivative strategies that seek to closely approximate the interest rate sensitivity, but not necessarily the exact cash flow characteristics, of the assets with the estimated interest rate sensitivity of the product liabilities. our overall objective in these strategies is to limit the net change in value of assets and liabilities arising from interest rate movements within the context of market conditions and other relative opportunities. while it is more difficult to measure the interest sensitivity of our insurance liabilities than that of the related assets, to the extent that we can measure such sensitivities we believe that interest rate movements will generate asset value changes that substantially offset changes in the value of the liabilities relating to the underlying products. certain products supported by general account investments also expose us to the risk that changes in interest rates will reduce the spread between the amounts that we are required to pay under the contracts and the rate of return we are able to earn on our general account investments supporting the contracts. in a declining or sustained low interest rate environment, our ability to achieve desired spreads can become limited by minimum guaranteed crediting rates associated with some of our variable life insurance and annuity products. for variable annuities and variable life insurance products, excluding the fixed-rate accounts associated with these products, mutual funds and most separate accounts, we are exposed to the risk that asset-based fees may decrease as a result of declines in assets under management due to changes in investment values. we also run the risk that asset management fees calculated by reference to performance could be lower. the risk of decreased asset-based and asset management fees could also impact our estimates of total gross profits used as a basis for amortizing deferred policy acquisition and other costs. while a decrease in our estimates of total gross profits would accelerate amortization and decrease net income in a given period, it would not affect our cash flow or liquidity position. for variable annuity and variable life insurance products with minimum guaranteed death benefits and variable annuity products with living benefits such as guaranteed minimum income, withdrawal, and accumulation benefits, we also face the risk that declines in the value of underlying investments as a result of interest rate, equity market, or market volatility changes may increase our net exposure to the guarantees under these contracts. as part of our risk management strategy, we utilize product design elements such as asset allocation restrictions, an automatic rebalancing element and minimum purchase age requirements, in addition to externally-purchased hedging instruments such as interest rate and equity-based derivatives to help to hedge or limit our market risk exposure to the benefit features of certain of our variable annuity contracts. see note 21 to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of our use of interest rate and equity based derivatives. see note 11 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information about the guaranteed minimum death benefits associated with our variable life and variable annuity contracts, and the guaranteed minimum income, withdrawal, and accumulation benefits associated with our variable annuity contracts. for a discussion of asset-based fees associated with our variable life products and our variable annuity contracts, our estimates of total gross profits used as a basis for amortizing deferred policy acquisition and other costs, and the impact of our guaranteed minimum death and other benefits on the results of our individual life and individual annuities segments, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations results of operations for financial services businesses by segment u.s. individual 251 table of contents life and group insurance division individual life and management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations results of operations for financial services businesses by segment u.s. retirement solutions and investment management division individual annuities. for risk management purposes we perform stress scenario testing to monitor the impact of extreme, but realistic adverse market events on our capital adequacy and liquidity. this testing allows us to assess the sensitivity of our businesses to market factors and identify any concentrations of risk. the regulatory capital levels and liquidity of our insurance companies in particular are closely monitored to ensure they remain consistent with our rating objectives. changes to these ratings could impact our borrowing costs, our ability to access alternative sources of liquidity, and our ability to market certain products. for additional information regarding our liquidity and capital resources see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources. market fluctuations or changes in market conditions could also cause a change in consumer sentiment adversely affecting sales and persistency of our long-term savings, protection and other investment products. for additional information regarding the potential impacts of interest rate and other market fluctuations as well as general economic and market conditions on our businesses and profitability see item 1a. risk factors. the sources of our exposure to market risk can be divided into two categories, other than trading activities conducted primarily in our insurance and annuity operations, and trading activities conducted primarily in our derivatives trading operations. as part of our management of both other than trading and trading market risks, we use a variety of risk management tools and techniques, which include sensitivity and value-at-risk, or var, measures, position and other limits based on type of risk, and various hedging methods. other than trading activities we hold the majority of our assets for other than trading activities in our segments that offer insurance, retirement and annuities products. we incorporate asset/liability management techniques and other risk management policies and limits into the process of investing our assets. we use derivatives for hedging and other purposes in the asset/liability management process. insurance and annuities products asset/liability management we seek to maintain interest rate and equity exposures within established ranges, which we periodically adjust based on market conditions and the design of related products sold to customers. our risk managers establish investment risk limits for exposures to any issuer, geographic region, type of security or industry sector and oversee efforts to manage interest rate and equity exposure risk, as well as credit, liquidity and other risks, all within policy constraints set by management and approved by the investment committee of the board of directors. for additional information regarding the management of our general account investments and our asset mix strategies, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations realized investment gains and losses and general account investments general account investments management of investments. we use duration and convexity analyses to measure price sensitivity to interest rate changes. duration measures the relative sensitivity of the fair value of a financial instrument to changes in interest rates. convexity measures the rate of change of duration with respect to changes in interest rates. we use asset/liability management and derivative strategies to manage our interest rate exposure by legal entity by matching the relative sensitivity of asset and liability values to interest rate changes, or controlling duration mismatch of assets and liabilities. we have target duration mismatch constraints by segment for each insurance entity. in certain markets, primarily outside the u.s., capital market limitations that hinder our ability to acquire assets that closely approximate the duration of some of our liabilities are considered in setting the constraint limits. as of december 31, 2011 and 2010, the difference between the pre-tax duration of assets and the target duration of liabilities in our duration-managed portfolios was within our constraint limits. we consider risk-based capital and tax implications as well as current market conditions in our asset/liability management strategies. we also perform portfolio stress testing as part of our u.s. regulatory cash flow for major product lines that are subject to risk from changes in interest rates. in this testing, we evaluate the impact of altering our interest- 252 table of contents sensitive assumptions under various adverse interest rate environments. these interest-sensitive assumptions relate to the timing and amount of redemptions and prepayments of fixed-income securities and lapses and surrenders of insurance products and the potential impact of any guaranteed minimum interest rates. we evaluate any shortfalls that this cash flow testing reveals to determine if we need to increase statutory reserves or adjust portfolio management strategies. market risk related to interest rates our other than trading assets that subject us to interest rate risk primarily include fixed maturity securities, commercial mortgage and other loans and policy loans. in the aggregate, the carrying value of these assets represented 80% and 78% of our consolidated assets, other than assets that we held in separate accounts, as of december 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. with respect to other than trading liabilities, we are exposed to interest rate risk through policyholder account balances relating to interest-sensitive life insurance, annuity and other investment-type contracts, collectively referred to as investment contracts, and through outstanding short-term and long-term debt. we assess interest rate sensitivity for other than trading financial assets, financial liabilities and derivatives using hypothetical test scenarios that assume either upward or downward 100 basis point parallel shifts in the yield curve from prevailing interest rates, reflecting changes in either credit spreads or the risk-free rate. the following tables set forth the net estimated potential loss in fair value from a hypothetical 100 basis point upward shift as of december 31, 2011 and 2010, because this scenario results in the greatest net exposure to interest rate risk of the hypothetical scenarios tested at those dates. while the test scenario is for illustrative purposes only and does not reflect our expectations regarding future interest rates or the performance of fixed-income markets, it is a near-term, reasonably possible hypothetical change that illustrates the potential impact of such events. these test scenarios do not measure the changes in value that could result from non-parallel shifts in the yield curve, which we would expect to produce different changes in discount rates for different maturities. as a result, the actual loss in fair value from a 100 basis point change in interest rates could be different from that indicated by these calculations. as of december 31, 2011 notional fair value hypothetical fair value after +100 basis point parallel yield curve shift hypothetical change in fair value (in millions) financial assets with interest rate risk: fixed maturities(1) $ 279,099 $ 257,476 $ (21,623 ) commercial mortgage and other loans 37,740 36,220 (1,520 ) policy loans 14,858 13,871 (987 ) derivatives: swaps $ 179,745 5,272 1,676 (3,596 ) futures 6,193 150 63 (87 ) options 15,650 383 103 (280 ) forwards 19,120 (152 ) (187 ) (35 ) variable annuity and other living benefit feature embedded derivatives(2) (2,886 ) (871 ) 2,015 financial liabilities with interest rate risk: short-term and long-term debt (28,174 ) (25,951 ) 2,223 debt of consolidated variable interest entities(3) (493 ) (493 ) 0 investment contracts (103,184 ) (99,641 ) 3,543 bank customer liabilities (1,745 ) (1,733 ) 12 net estimated potential loss $ (20,335 ) 253 table of contents as of december 31, 2010 notional fair value hypothetical fair value after +100 basis point parallel yield curve shift hypothetical change in fair value (in millions) financial assets with interest rate risk: fixed maturities(1) $ 217,694 $ 202,279 $ (15,415 ) commercial mortgage and other loans 33,129 31,869 (1,260 ) policy loans 12,781 11,978 (803 ) derivatives: swaps $ 138,442 563 (1,182 ) (1,745 ) futures 6,834 0 (43 ) (43 ) options 23,277 516 427 (89 ) forwards 11,891 (159 ) (167 ) (8 ) variable annuity and other living benefit feature embedded derivatives(2) 204 1,388 1,184 financial liabilities with interest rate risk: short-term and long-term debt (27,093 ) (25,049 ) 2,044 debt of consolidated variable interest entities(3) (265 ) (265 ) 0 investment contracts (78,757 ) (76,258 ) 2,499 bank customer liabilities (1,775 ) (1,762 ) 13 net estimated potential loss $ (13,623 ) (1) includes trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities and other fixed maturities classified as trading securities under u.s. gaap, but are held for other than trading activities in our segments that offer insurance, retirement and annuities products. (2) the hypothetical change in fair value related to our variable annuity and other living benefit feature embedded derivatives reflects only the gross fair value change on the embedded derivatives, and excludes any offsetting impact of derivative instruments purchased to hedge such changes in fair value. (3) included in other liabilities together with all liabilities of consolidated variable interest entities. see note 5 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding consolidated variable interest entities. the tables above do not include approximately $203 billion of insurance reserve and deposit liabilities as of december 31, 2011 and $163 billion as of december 31, 2010 which are not considered financial liabilities. we believe that the interest rate sensitivities of these insurance liabilities would serve as an offset to the net interest rate risk of the financial assets and liabilities, including investment contracts, which are set forth in these tables. our net estimated potential loss in fair value as of december 31, 2011 increased $6,712 million from december 31, 2010, primarily reflecting an increase in our fixed maturity securities portfolio in 2011. the increase in our fixed maturity securities portfolio in 2011 was primarily due to the acquisition of the star and edison businesses on february 1, 2011, as well as portfolio growth as a result of reinvestment of net investment income and a net increase in fair value primarily driven by a net decrease in interest rates. the estimated changes in fair values of our financial assets shown above relate primarily to assets invested to support our insurance liabilities, but do not include separate account assets associated with products for which investment risk is borne primarily by the separate account contractholders rather than by us. market risk related to equity prices we actively manage investment equity price risk against benchmarks in respective markets. we benchmark our return on equity holdings against a blend of market indices, mainly the s&amp;p 500 and russell 2000 for u.s. equities. for foreign equities we benchmark against the tokyo price index, or topix, and the msci eafe, a market index of european, australian, and far eastern equities. we target price sensitivities that approximate those of the benchmark indices. we estimate our investment equity price risk from a hypothetical 10% decline in equity benchmark market levels and measure this risk in terms of the decline in fair market value of equity securities we hold. using this methodology, our estimated investment equity price risk as of december 31, 2011 was $1,007 million, representing a hypothetical decline in fair market value of equity securities we held at that date from $10.067 billion to $9.060 billion. our estimated investment equity price risk using this methodology as of december 31, 2010 was $922 million, representing a hypothetical decline in fair market value of equity 254 table of contents securities we held at that date from $9.217 billion to $8.295 billion. in calculating these amounts, we exclude separate account equity securities related to products for which the investment risk is borne primarily by the separate account contractholder rather than by us. in addition to equity securities, as indicated above, we hold equity-based derivatives primarily to hedge the equity price risk embedded in the living benefit features in some of our variable annuity products, as well as part of our capital hedging program described further below. as of december 31, 2011, our equity-based derivatives had notional values of $21.749 billion, and were reported at fair value as a $358 million asset, and the living benefit features accounted for as embedded derivatives were reported at fair value as a $2.886 billion liability. as of december 31, 2010, our equity-based derivatives had notional values of $26.004 billion, and were reported at fair value as a $353 million asset, and the living benefits features accounted for as embedded derivatives were reported at fair value as a $204 million asset. our estimated equity price risk associated with living benefit features accounted for as embedded derivatives, net of the related equity-based derivatives used in our living benefits hedging program, was a $433 million benefit as of december 31, 2011 and a $87 million benefit as of december 31, 2010, estimated based on a hypothetical 10% decline in equity benchmark market levels. the higher sensitivity level as of december 31, 2011 primarily reflects a greater impact from our own risk of non-performance, driven by a higher base of embedded derivative liabilities and widening credit spreads, as this risk does not have an offsetting impact on the hedge assets. see note 20 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information on the impact of our own risk of non-performance on the valuation of the living benefit features accounted for as embedded derivatives. in addition, beginning in the second quarter of 2010, we have entered into equity index-linked derivative transactions that are designed to mitigate the impact of a severe equity market stress event on statutory capital. the program focuses on tail risk to protect our capital in a cost-effective manner under stress scenarios. we continue to assess the composition of our hedging program on an ongoing basis, and we may change it from time to time based on our evaluation of the company risk position or other factors. our estimated equity price risk associated with these capital hedges was a benefit of $9 million and $3 million as of december 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, estimated based on a hypothetical 10% decline in equity benchmark market levels, which would partially offset an overall decline in our capital position related to the equity market decline. while these scenarios are for illustrative purposes only and do not reflect our expectations regarding future performance of equity markets or of our equity portfolio, they represent near term reasonably possible hypothetical changes that illustrate the potential impact of such events. these scenarios consider only the direct impact on fair value of declines in equity benchmark market levels and not changes in asset-based fees recognized as revenue, changes in our estimates of total gross profits used as a basis for amortizing deferred policy acquisition and other costs, or changes in any other assumptions such as market volatility or mortality, utilization or persistency rates in our variable annuity contracts that could also impact the fair value of our living benefit features. in addition, these scenarios do not reflect the impact of basis risk, such as potential differences in the performance of the investment funds underlying the variable annuity products relative to the market indices we use as a basis for developing our hedging strategy. the impact of basis risk could result in larger differences between the change in fair value of the equity-based derivatives and the related living benefit features, in comparison to the scenarios above. market risk related to foreign currency exchange rates we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk in our domestic general account investment portfolios, other proprietary investment portfolios and through our operations in foreign countries and foreign currency liability issuances. our exposure to foreign currency risk within the domestic general account investment portfolios supporting our u.s. insurance operations and other domestic proprietary investment portfolios arises primarily from investments that are denominated in foreign currencies. we generally hedge substantially all domestic general account foreign currency-denominated fixed-income investments and other domestic proprietary foreign currency investments into u.s. dollars in order to mitigate the risk that the cash flows or fair value of these investments fluctuates as a result of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. we generally do not hedge all of the foreign currency risk of our investments in equity securities of unaffiliated foreign entities. 255 table of contents our operations in foreign countries create the following three additional sources of foreign currency risk: first, we reflect the operating results of our foreign operations in our financial statements based on the average exchange rates prevailing during the period. we hedge some of these foreign currency operating results as part of our overall risk management strategy. we generally hedge our anticipated exposure to adjusted operating income fluctuations resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates relating to our international operations primarily in japan, korea and taiwan. second, we translate our equity investment in foreign operations into u.s. dollars using the foreign currency exchange rate at the financial statement period-end date. for our equity investments in our japanese and taiwanese operations, we generally hedge this exposure through a combination of issuing foreign denominated liabilities outside these operations and by holding u.s. dollar-denominated securities in the investment portfolios of these operations. third, our international insurance operations may hold investments denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of those operations on an unhedged basis in addition to the aforementioned equity hedges resulting from foreign subsidiaries investing in u.s. dollar-denominated investments. most significantly, our japanese operations hold investments denominated in u.s. dollars and australian dollars in their investment portfolios in excess of our equity investment in such operations. these investments support product liabilities in the corresponding currencies. for a discussion of our japanese operations investments denominated in u.s. dollars and australian dollars, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations realized investment gains and losses and general account investments general account investments portfolio composition, and management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations results of operations for financial services businesses by segment international insurance division. we manage our investment foreign currency exchange rate risks, described above, within specified limits. foreign currency exchange risks for our domestic general account investment portfolio and the unhedged portion of our equity investment in foreign subsidiaries are managed using var-based analysis. this statistical technique estimates, at a specified confidence level, the potential pre-tax loss in portfolio market value that could occur over an assumed time horizon due to adverse market movements. the estimated var as of december 31, 2011 for foreign currency exchange risks in our domestic general account portfolio and the unhedged portion of equity investment in foreign subsidiaries, measured at a 95% confidence level and using a one-month time horizon, was $175 million, representing a hypothetical decline in fair market value of these foreign currency assets from $4.322 billion to $4.147 billion. the estimated var as of december 31, 2010 for foreign currency exchange risks in our domestic general account portfolio and the unhedged portion of equity investment in foreign subsidiaries, measured at a 95% confidence level and using a one-month time horizon, was $133 million, representing a hypothetical decline in fair market value of these foreign currency assets from $3.491 billion to $3.358 billion. the estimated one-month var as of december 31, 2011 increased driven by a higher level of exchange rate volatility experience during 2011. the average var for foreign currency exchange risks in our domestic general account portfolio and the unhedged portion of equity investment in foreign subsidiaries, measured monthly at a 95% confidence level over a one month time horizon, was $137 million during 2011 and $125 million during 2010. the average one-month var for 2011 increased in comparison to 2010 due to the higher level of exchange rate volatility experience during 2011. these calculations use historical price volatilities and correlation data at a 95% confidence level. we discuss limitations of var models below. the estimated var for instruments used to hedge our anticipated exposure to adjusted operating income fluctuations resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates relating to our international operations, measured at a 95% confidence level and using a one-month time horizon, was $135 million as of december 31, 2011 and $134 million as of december 31, 2010. the increased var for foreign currency exchange risks primarily reflects an increase in the size of the investment portfolio driven by the acquisition of the star and edison businesses on february 1, 2011, as well as increased volatility in exchange rates for japanese yen and korean won. 256 table of contents derivatives derivatives are financial instruments whose values are derived from interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, financial indices, or the prices of securities or commodities. derivative financial instruments may be exchange-traded or contracted in the over-the-counter market and include swaps, futures, options and forward contracts. derivatives also include guarantees we provide on investment-only, fee-based stable value products, which are classified as interest rate derivatives. we are also a party to financial instruments that may contain derivative instruments that are embedded in the financial instruments. additionally, we are exposed to credit-related losses in the event of non-performance by counterparties to financial derivative transactions. we manage credit risk by entering into derivative transactions with major international financial institutions and other creditworthy counterparties, and by obtaining collateral where appropriate. additionally, limits are set on single party credit exposures which are subject to periodic management review. see note 21 to the consolidated financial statements for a description of our derivative activities and credit risk as of december 31, 2011 and 2010. under insurance statutes, our insurance companies may use derivative financial instruments to hedge actual or anticipated changes in their assets or liabilities, to replicate cash market instruments or for certain income-generating activities. these statutes generally prohibit the use of derivatives for speculative purposes. we use derivative financial instruments primarily to seek to reduce market risk from changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, as well as equity prices, and to alter interest rate or foreign currency exposures arising from mismatches between assets and liabilities. in addition, we use derivative financial instruments to mitigate risk associated with some of our benefit features of our variable annuity contracts. the notional amount of derivative instruments increased $41 billion in 2011, from $180 billion as of december 31, 2010 to $221 billion as of december 31, 2011, driven by an increase in interest rate derivatives, primarily related to our variable annuity hedging activities, and an increase in investment-only, fee-based stable value products sold in our retirement segment. we use credit derivatives to enhance the return on our investment portfolio by creating credit exposure similar to an investment in public fixed maturity cash instruments, and purchase credit protection using credit derivatives in order to hedge specific credit exposures in our investment portfolio. for additional information regarding our exposure to credit derivatives, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations realized investment gains and losses and general account investments general account investments fixed maturity securities credit derivative exposure to public fixed maturities. trading activities our derivatives trading operations engage in trading in a non-dealer capacity, maintaining trading positions to manage interest rate, currency, credit and equity exposures in our insurance, investment and international businesses, and treasury operations. our derivative transactions involve both exchange-listed and over-the-counter contracts and are generally short-term in duration. market risk affects the values of our trading positions through fluctuations in absolute or relative interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, securities and commodity prices. we seek to use security positions and forwards, futures, options and other derivatives to limit exposure to interest rate and other market risks. prior to the sale of our global commodities business on july 1, 2011, our trading activities included those in which we acted as a broker, buying and selling exchange-listed contracts for our customers, and as a dealer, by entering into futures and security transactions as a principal. value-at-risk var is one of the tools we use to monitor and manage our exposure to the market risk of our trading activities. we calculate a var that encompasses our trading activities using a 95% confidence level. the var method incorporates the risk factors to which the market value of our trading activities is exposed, which consist of interest rates, including credit spreads, foreign currency exchange rates, and commodity prices, estimates of volatilities from historical data, the sensitivity of our trading activities to changes in those market factors and the correlations of those factors. the total var for our trading activities, which considers our combined exposure to interest rate risk, foreign currency exchange rate risk, and commodities price risk, expressed in terms of adverse changes to fair value at a 95% confidence level over a one-day time horizon, was $0 million as of december 31, 2011 and $1 million as of december 31, 2010. the total average daily var for our trading activities considering our exposure to interest rate risk, foreign currency exchange rate risk, and commodities price risk, expressed in terms of adverse changes to fair value with a 95% confidence level over a one-day time horizon, was $1 million during both 2011 and 2010. 257 table of contents limitations of var models although var models are a recognized tool for risk management, they have inherent limitations, including reliance on historical data that may not be indicative of future market conditions or trading patterns. accordingly, var models should not be viewed as a predictor of future results. we may incur losses that could be materially in excess of the amounts indicated by the models on a particular trading day or over a period of time, and there have been instances when results have fallen outside the values generated by our var models. a var model does not estimate the greatest possible loss. the results of these models and analysis thereof are subject to the judgment of our risk management personnel. 258 table of contentsrisk factors 34 risk factors you should carefully consider the following risks. these risks are not exclusive, and additional risks to which we are subject include, but are not limited to, the factors mentioned under forward-looking statements above and the risks of our businesses described elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k. risks relating to economic, market and political conditions market fluctuations and general economic, market and political conditions may adversely affect our business and profitability. our businesses and our results of operations may be materially adversely affected by conditions in the global financial markets and by economic conditions generally. even under relatively favorable market conditions, our insurance, annuity and investment products, as well as our investment returns and our access to and cost of financing, are sensitive to fixed income, equity, real estate and other market fluctuations and general economic, market and political conditions. these fluctuations and conditions could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and liquidity, including in the following respects: the profitability of many of our insurance and annuity products depends in part on the value of the separate accounts supporting these products, which fluctuate substantially depending on the foregoing conditions. market conditions resulting in reductions in the value of assets we manage or lower transaction volume have an adverse effect on the revenues and profitability of our asset management business, which depends on fees related primarily to the value of assets under management or transaction volume, and could further decrease the value of our strategic investments. 34 table of contents a change in market conditions, such as high inflation and high interest rates, could cause a change in consumer sentiment and behavior adversely affecting sales and persistency of our savings and protection products. conversely, low inflation and low interest rates could cause persistency of these products to vary from that anticipated and adversely affect profitability (as further described below). similarly, changing economic conditions and unfavorable public perception of financial institutions can influence customer behavior, including increasing claims or surrenders in certain product lines. sales of our investment-based and asset management products and services may decline, and lapses and surrenders of variable life and annuity products and withdrawals of assets from other investment products may increase if a market downturn, increased market volatility or other market conditions result in customers becoming dissatisfied with their investments or products. a market decline could further result in guaranteed minimum benefits contained in many of our variable annuity products being higher than current account values or our pricing assumptions would support, requiring us to materially increase reserves for such products, and may cause customers to retain contracts in force in order to benefit from the guarantees, thereby increasing their cost to us. any increased cost may or may not be more than offset by the favorable impact of greater persistency from prolonged fee streams. our valuation of the liabilities for the minimum benefits contained in many of our variable annuity products requires us to consider the market perception of our risk of non-performance, and a decrease in our own credit spreads resulting from ratings upgrades or other events or market conditions could cause the recorded value of these liabilities to increase, which in turn could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. market conditions determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection we purchase. accordingly, we may be forced to incur additional expenses for reinsurance or may not be able to obtain sufficient reinsurance on acceptable terms which could adversely affect the profitability of future business or our willingness to write future business. derivative instruments we hold to hedge and manage foreign exchange risk, interest rate and equity risks associated with our products and businesses, and other risks might not perform as intended or expected resulting in higher realized losses and unforeseen stresses on liquidity. market conditions can limit availability of hedging instruments, require us to post additional collateral, and also further increase the cost of executing product related hedges and such costs may not be recovered in the pricing of the underlying products being hedged. our derivative-based hedging strategies also rely on the performance of counterparties to such derivatives. these counterparties may fail to perform for various reasons resulting in losses on uncollateralized positions. we have significant investment and derivative portfolios, including but not limited to corporate and asset-backed securities, foreign government securities (primarily that of the japanese government), equities and commercial real estate. economic conditions as well as adverse capital market conditions, including a lack of buyers in the marketplace, volatility, credit spread changes, benchmark interest rate changes, changes in foreign currency exchange rates and declines in value of underlying collateral will impact the credit quality, liquidity and value of our investments and derivatives, potentially resulting in higher capital charges and unrealized or realized losses. valuations may include assumptions or estimates that may have significant period to period changes which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition, and in certain cases under u.s. gaap such period to period changes in the value of investments are not recognized in our results of operations or consolidated statements of financial position. opportunities for investment of available funds at appropriate returns may be limited, including due to the current low interest rate environment, a diminished securitization market or other factors, with a possible negative impact on our overall results. limited opportunities for attractive investments may lead to holding cash for long periods of time and increased use of derivatives for duration management and other portfolio management purposes. the increased use of derivatives may increase the volatility of our u.s. gaap results and our statutory capital. regardless of market conditions, certain investments we hold, including private bonds and commercial mortgages, are relatively illiquid. if we needed to sell these investments, we may have difficulty doing so in a timely manner at a price that we could otherwise realize. 35 table of contents certain features of our products and components of investment strategies depend on active and liquid markets, and, if market liquidity is strained, these may not perform as intended. fluctuations in our operating results and the impact on our investment portfolio may impact the company tax profile and its ability to optimally utilize tax attributes. adverse developments in the japanese economy, including but not limited to the effects of higher inflation, interest rate volatility, changes in the japan sovereign credit rating, and material changes in yen/u.s. dollar exchange rates may adversely affect the value of our investments, results of operations and financial condition. adverse european market, economic and financial conditions have had, and are likely to continue to have, a negative impact on global economic activity and financial markets. these conditions, should they persist or worsen, could adversely affect our investment results, results of operations and financial position. adverse developments in the u.s. or global economy resulting from the continuing uncertainty about the federal reserve monetary policy and the ongoing debate over the federal debt ceiling and its temporary suspension, sequestration (the automatic reduction in defense and non-defense spending) and the funding of the u.s. government operating under a temporary resolution could adversely affect our investment results, results of operations and financial position. interest rate fluctuations or prolonged periods of low interest rates could adversely affect our businesses and profitability and require us to increase reserves and statutory capital. our insurance and annuity products and certain of our investment products, and our investment returns, are sensitive to interest rate fluctuations, and changes in interest rates could adversely affect our investment returns and results of operations, including in the following respects: some of our products expose us to the risk that changes in interest rates will reduce the spread between the amounts that we are required to pay under the contracts and the rate of return we are able to earn on our general account investments supporting the contracts. when interest rates decline, we have to reinvest in lower yielding instruments, potentially reducing net investment income. since many of our policies and contracts have guaranteed minimum interest or crediting rates or limit the resetting of interest rates, the spreads could decrease and potentially become negative, or go further negative. when interest rates rise, we may not be able to replace the assets in our general account as quickly with the higher yielding assets needed to fund the higher crediting rates necessary to keep these products and contracts competitive. in addition, rising interest rates could cause a decline in the market value of fixed income assets the company manages which in turn could result in lower asset management fees earned. changes in interest rates can also result in potential losses in our investment activities in which we borrow funds and purchase investments to earn additional spread income on the borrowed funds. when interest rates rise, policy loans and surrenders and withdrawals of life insurance policies and annuity contracts may increase as policyholders seek to buy products with perceived higher returns, requiring us to sell investment assets potentially resulting in realized investment losses, or requiring us to accelerate the amortization of dac, dsi or voba (each defined below). in addition, increasing interest rates could cause capital strain for japanese statutory reporting because the carrying value of bonds classified as available-for-sale would decline while the carrying value of liabilities would generally remain unchanged. a decline in interest rates accompanied by unexpected prepayments of certain investments could require us to reinvest at lower rates and reduce our profitability. an increase in interest rates accompanied by unexpected extensions of certain lower yielding investments could reduce our profitability. changes in interest rates coupled with accelerated client withdrawals for certain products can result in increased costs associated with our guarantees. changes in the relationship between long-term and short-term interest rates could adversely affect the profitability of some of our products. changes in interest rates could increase our costs of financing. 36 table of contents our mitigation efforts with respect to interest rate risk are primarily focused on maintaining an investment portfolio with diversified maturities that has a weighted average duration that is approximately equal to the duration of our estimated liability cash flow profile. however, this estimate of the liability cash flow profile is complex and could turn out to be inaccurate, especially during volatile times. in addition, there are practical and capital market limitations on our ability to accomplish this matching. due to these and other factors we may need to liquidate investments prior to maturity at a loss in order to satisfy liabilities or be forced to reinvest funds in a lower rate environment. although we take measures to manage the economic risks of investing in a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to effectively mitigate, and we may sometimes choose based on economic considerations and other factors not to fully mitigate, the interest rate risk of our assets relative to our liabilities. for certain of our products, a delay between the time we make changes in interest rate and other assumptions used for product pricing and the time we are able to reflect these assumptions in products available for sale could negatively impact the long-term profitability of products sold during the intervening period. recent periods have been characterized by low interest rates. a prolonged period during which interest rates remain at levels lower than those anticipated in our pricing may result in greater costs associated with certain of our product features which guarantee death benefits or income streams for stated periods or for life; higher costs for derivative instruments used to hedge certain of our product risks; or shortfalls in investment income on assets supporting policy obligations, each of which may require us to record charges to increase reserves. in addition to compressing spreads and reducing net investment income, such an environment may cause policies to remain in force for longer periods than we anticipated in our pricing, potentially resulting in greater claims costs than we expected and resulting in lower overall returns on business in force. reflecting these impacts in recoverability and loss recognition testing under u.s. gaap may require us to accelerate the amortization of dac, dsi or voba as noted above, as well as to increase required reserves for future policyholder benefits. in addition, certain statutory capital and reserve requirements are based on formulas or models that consider interest rates, and a prolonged period of low interest rates may increase the statutory capital we are required to hold as well as the amount of assets we must maintain to support statutory reserves. adverse capital market conditions could significantly affect our ability to meet liquidity needs, our access to capital and our cost of capital, including capital that may be required by our subsidiaries. under such conditions, we may seek additional debt or equity capital but may be unable to obtain such. adverse capital market conditions could affect the availability and cost of borrowed funds and could impact our ability to refinance existing borrowings, thereby ultimately impacting our profitability and ability to support or grow our businesses. we need liquidity to pay our operating expenses, interest on our debt and dividends on our capital stock and replace certain maturing debt obligations. during times of market stress, our internal sources of liquidity may prove to be insufficient and some of our alternative sources of liquidity, such as commercial paper issuance, securities lending and repurchase arrangements and other forms of borrowings in the capital markets, may be unavailable to us. disruptions, uncertainty and volatility in the financial markets may force us to delay raising capital, issue shorter tenor securities than would be optimal, bear an unattractive cost of capital or be unable to raise capital at any price, which could decrease our profitability and significantly reduce our financial flexibility. we may seek additional debt or equity financing to satisfy our needs. however, the availability of additional financing depends on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the overall availability of credit to the financial services industry, and our credit ratings and credit capacity. we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. actions we might take to access financing may in turn cause rating agencies to reevaluate our ratings. further, any future equity offerings would dilute the ownership interest of existing shareholders. disruptions in the capital markets could adversely affect prudential financial and its subsidiaries ability to access sources of liquidity, as well as threaten to reduce our capital below a level that is consistent with our existing ratings objectives. therefore, we may need to take actions, which may include but are not limited to: (1) further access external sources of capital, including the debt or equity markets; (2) reduce or eliminate future 37 table of contents shareholder dividends on our common stock; (3) undertake additional capital management activities, including reinsurance transactions; (4) limit or curtail sales of certain products and/or restructure existing products; (5) undertake further asset sales or internal asset transfers; (6) seek temporary or permanent changes to regulatory rules; and (7) maintain greater levels of cash balances or for longer periods thereby reducing investment returns. certain of these actions may require regulatory approval and/or agreement of counterparties which are outside of our control or have economic costs associated with them. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect our profitability, financial condition and cash flow, as well as increase the volatility of our results of operations under u.s. gaap. as a u.s.-based company with significant business operations outside the u.s., particularly in japan, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange risks that could reduce the u.s. dollar equivalent earnings and equity of these operations. we enter into derivative contracts in order to hedge the future income of certain of our international subsidiaries. further, our japanese subsidiaries hold u.s. dollar-denominated assets as a way for us to mitigate the effect of fluctuations in the yen exchange rate on our u.s. dollar-equivalent investment in these subsidiaries. we seek to mitigate any volatility in the local solvency margins of our japanese subsidiaries due to holding these u.s. dollar-denominated investments by entering into inter-company currency derivatives. currency fluctuations could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows or financial condition as a result of these derivative positions or due to foreign income or equity investments that are not hedged. a significant strengthening of the yen could adversely impact the value of our hedges and u.s. dollar-denominated investments held in our japanese subsidiaries and could result in additional liquidity or capital needs for our international insurance operations. our japanese insurance operations offer products denominated in non-yen currencies, with the liabilities for these products supported by investments denominated in the corresponding currencies. while the impact from foreign currency exchange rate movements on these non-yen denominated assets and liabilities are economically matched, the accounting for changes in the value of these assets and liabilities due to changes in foreign currency exchange rate movements differs, resulting in volatility in our net income under u.s. gaap. for example, unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale investments, including those arising from foreign currency exchange rate movements, are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), or aoci, whereas the non-yen denominated liabilities are remeasured for foreign currency exchange rate movements, and the related changes in value are recorded in earnings within asset management fees and other income. we hold investments denominated in foreign currencies in the general account of our domestic insurance subsidiaries. we generally seek to hedge this foreign currency exposure but there is no assurance that we will fully hedge this exposure or that such hedges will be effective. the value and liquidity of our foreign currency investments could be adversely affected by local adverse market, economic and financial conditions. for example, our investments denominated in euro could be adversely affected by the recent unfavorable economic conditions in europe, including due to potential changes in the euro or to the structure or membership of the european monetary union. risks relating to estimates, assumptions and valuations our profitability may decline if mortality experience, longevity experience, morbidity experience, persistency experience or utilization experience differ significantly from our pricing expectations. we set prices for many of our insurance and annuity products based upon expected claims and payment patterns, using assumptions for mortality rates, or likelihood of death, longevity rates, or likelihood of survival (including the effect of improvement in life expectancy trends), and morbidity rates, or likelihood of sickness or disability, of our policyholders. in addition to the potential effect of natural or man-made disasters, significant changes in mortality, longevity, or morbidity could emerge gradually over time, due to changes in the natural environment, the health habits of the insured population, treatment patterns and technologies for disease or disability, the economic environment, or other factors. pricing of our insurance and deferred annuity products are also based in part upon expected persistency of these products, which is the probability that a policy or contract will remain in force from one period to the next. persistency within our individual annuities business may be significantly impacted by the value of guaranteed minimum benefits contained in many of our variable annuity 38 table of contents products being higher than current account values in light of poor equity market performance or extended periods of low interest rates as well as other factors. persistency could be adversely affected generally by developments affecting client perception of us, including perceptions arising from adverse publicity. many of our products also provide our customers with wide flexibility with respect to the amount and timing of premium deposits and/or the amount and timing of withdrawals from the policy value. results may vary based on differences between actual and expected premium deposits and withdrawals for these products, especially if these product features are relatively new to the marketplace. the pricing of certain of our variable annuity products that contain optional living benefit guarantees is also based on assumptions about utilization rates, or the percentage of contracts that will utilize the benefit during the contract duration, including the timing of the first lifetime income withdrawal. results may vary based on differences between actual and expected occurrence and timing of the benefit utilization. the development of a secondary market for life insurance, including life settlements or viaticals and investor owned life insurance, and third-party investor strategies in the annuities business, could adversely affect the profitability of existing business and our pricing assumptions for new business. significant deviations in actual experience from our pricing assumptions could have an adverse effect on the profitability of our products. although some of our products permit us to increase premiums or adjust other charges and credits during the life of the policy or contract, the adjustments permitted under the terms of the policies or contracts may not be sufficient to maintain profitability or may cause the policies or contracts to lapse. for our long-term care insurance products, our assumptions for reserves for future policy benefits have factored in our best estimate of the timing and amount of anticipated and yet-to-be-filed premium increases which will require state approval. our actual experience obtaining pricing increases could be materially different than what we have assumed, resulting in further policy liability increases which could be material. many of our products do not permit us to increase premiums or adjust other charges and credits or limit those adjustments during the life of the policy or contract. even if permitted under the policy or contract, we may not be able or willing to raise premiums or adjust other charges sufficiently, or at all, for regulatory or competitive reasons. if our reserves for future policyholder benefits and claims are inadequate, we may be required to increase our reserves, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we establish actuarially-determined reserves to pay future policyholder benefits and claims. our reserves do not represent an exact calculation of liability, but rather are actuarial or statistical estimates based on data and models that include many assumptions and projections which are inherently uncertain and involve the exercise of significant judgment, including as to the levels of and/or timing of receipt or payment of premiums, benefits, claims, expenses, interest credits, investment results (including equity market returns), retirement, mortality, longevity, morbidity and persistency. we cannot determine with precision the ultimate amounts that we will pay for, or the timing of payment of, actual benefits, claims and expenses or whether the assets supporting our policy liabilities, together with future premiums, will be sufficient for payment of benefits and claims. if we conclude that our reserves, together with future premiums, are insufficient to cover future policy benefits and claims, we would be required to increase premiums where we are able to do so or increase our reserves and incur income statement charges, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. for certain of our products, market performance and interest rates (as well as the regulatory environment, as discussed further below) impact the level of statutory reserves and statutory capital we are required to hold, and may have an adverse effect on returns on capital associated with these products. we finance noneconomic reserves associated with our individual life business. marketplace capacity for reserve funding structures may be limited as a result of market conditions generally. our ability to efficiently manage capital and economic reserve levels may be impacted, thereby impacting profitability and return on capital. we may be required to accelerate the amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs, or dac, deferred sales inducements, or dsi, or value of business acquired, or voba, or recognize impairment in the value of our goodwill or certain investments, or be required to establish a valuation allowance against deferred income tax assets, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. deferred policy acquisition costs, or dac, represent the costs that vary with and are directly related to the acquisition of new and renewal insurance and annuity contracts, and we amortize these costs over the expected lives of the contracts. deferred sales inducements, or dsi, represent amounts that are credited to a policyholder account balance as an inducement to purchase the contract, and we amortize these costs over the expected lives 39 table of contents of the contracts. value of business acquired, or voba, represents the present value of future profits embedded in acquired insurance, annuity and investment-type contracts and is amortized over the expected effective lives of the acquired contracts. management, on an ongoing basis, tests the dac, dsi and voba recorded on our balance sheet to determine if these amounts are recoverable under current assumptions. in addition, we regularly review the estimates and assumptions underlying dac, dsi and voba for those products for which we amortize dac, dsi and voba in proportion to gross profits or gross margins. given changes in facts and circumstances, these tests and reviews could lead to reductions in dac, dsi and/or voba that could have an adverse effect on the results of our operations and our financial condition. among other things, significant or sustained equity market declines as well as investment losses could result in acceleration of amortization of the dac, dsi and voba related to variable annuity and variable universal life contracts, resulting in a charge to income. as discussed earlier, the amortization of dac, dsi and voba are also sensitive to changes in interest rates. goodwill represents the excess of the amounts we paid to acquire subsidiaries and other businesses over the fair value of their net assets at the date of acquisition. goodwill is assessed annually for potential impairment, or more frequently if conditions warrant, by comparing the carrying value (equity attributed to a business to support its risk) of a business to its estimated fair value at that date. as of december 31, 2012, we had goodwill balances related to our retirement reporting unit, our asset management reporting unit and our international insurance reporting unit. market declines or other events impacting the fair value of these businesses, or increases in the level of equity required to support these businesses, could result in goodwill impairments, resulting in a charge to income. we have operating equity method investments within our international insurance and asset management segments and corporate and other operations. declines in the fair value of these investments may require that we review the remaining carrying value of these investments for potential impairment, and such review could result in impairments and charges to income. deferred income tax represents the tax effect of the differences between the book and tax basis of assets and liabilities. deferred tax assets are assessed periodically by management to determine if they are realizable. factors in management determination include the performance of the business including the geographic and legal entity source of our income, the ability to generate capital gains from a variety of sources, and tax planning strategies. if based on available information, it is more likely than not that the deferred income tax asset will not be realized then a valuation allowance must be established with a corresponding charge to net income. such charges could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. changes in our discount rate, expected rate of return, life expectancy and expected compensation increase assumptions for our pension and other postretirement benefit plans may result in increased expenses and reduce our profitability. we determine our pension and other postretirement benefit plan costs based on assumed discount rates, expected rates of return on plan assets, life expectancy of plan participants and expected increases in compensation levels and trends in health care costs. changes in these assumptions, including from the impact of a sustained low interest rate environment, may result in increased expenses and reduce our profitability. our valuation of fixed maturity, equity and trading securities may include methodologies, estimations and assumptions that are subject to differing interpretations and could result in changes to investment valuations that may materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. during periods of market disruption, it may be difficult to value certain of our investment securities, such as sub-prime mortgage-backed securities, if trading becomes less frequent and/or market data becomes less observable. there may be cases where certain assets in normally active markets with significant observable data become inactive with insufficient observable data due to the current financial environment or market conditions. as a result, valuations may include inputs and assumptions that are less observable or require greater estimation and judgment as well as valuation methods which are more complex. these values may not be ultimately realizable in a market transaction, and such values may change very rapidly as market conditions change and valuation assumptions are modified. decreases in value may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. 40 table of contents the decision on whether to record an other-than-temporary impairment or write-down is determined in part by management assessment of the financial condition and prospects of a particular issuer, projections of future cash flows and recoverability of the particular security. management conclusions on such assessments are highly judgmental and include assumptions and projections of future cash flows which may ultimately prove to be incorrect as assumptions, facts and circumstances change. credit and counterparty risks an inability to access our credit facilities could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we maintain committed unsecured revolving credit facilities. we rely on these credit facilities as a potential source of liquidity which could be critical in enabling us to meet our obligations as they come due, particularly during periods when alternative sources of liquidity are limited. our ability to borrow under these facilities is conditioned on our satisfaction of covenants and other requirements contained in the facilities, such as prudential financial maintenance of a prescribed minimum level of consolidated net worth calculated in accordance with the applicable credit agreement. our failure to satisfy these and other requirements contained in the credit facilities would restrict our access to the facilities when needed and, consequently, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. a downgrade or potential downgrade in our financial strength or credit ratings could limit our ability to market products, require us to post collateral, increase our borrowing costs and/or hurt our relationships with creditors, trading counterparties or reinsurers and restrict our access to alternative sources of liquidity. a downgrade in our financial strength or credit ratings could potentially, among other things, limit our ability to market products, reduce our competitiveness, increase the number or value of policy surrenders and withdrawals, increase our borrowing costs and potentially make it more difficult to borrow funds, adversely affect the availability of financial guarantees, such as letters of credit, cause additional collateral requirements or other required payments under certain agreements, allow counterparties to terminate derivative agreements, and/or hurt our relationships with creditors, distributors, reinsurers or trading counterparties thereby potentially negatively affecting our profitability, liquidity and/or capital. in addition, we consider our own risk of non-performance in determining the fair value of our liabilities, including insurance liabilities that are classified as embedded derivatives under u.s. gaap. therefore, changes in our credit or financial strength ratings may affect the fair value of our liabilities. a downgrade in the credit or financial strength ratings of prudential financial or its rated subsidiaries could result in additional collateral requirements or other required payments under certain agreements, including derivative agreements, which are eligible to be satisfied in cash or by posting securities held by the subsidiaries subject to the agreements. a ratings downgrade of three ratings levels from the ratings levels at december 31, 2012 (relating to financial strength ratings in certain cases and credit ratings in other cases) would result in estimated collateral posting requirements or payments under such agreements of approximately $77 million. in addition, a ratings downgrade by a.m. best to a- for our domestic life insurance companies would require prudential insurance to post a letter of credit in the amount of approximately $1.7 billion, based on the level of statutory reserves related to the variable annuity business acquired from allstate, that we estimate would result in annual cash outflows of approximately $14 million, or collateral posting in the form of cash or securities to be held in a trust. prudential insurance has been a member of the federal home loan bank of new york, or fhlbny, since june 2008. membership allows prudential insurance access to fhlbny financial services, including the ability to obtain collateralized loans, and to issue collateralized funding agreements that can be used as an alternative source of liquidity. under fhlbny guidelines, if prudential insurance financial strength ratings decline below a/a2/a stable by s&amp;p, moody and fitch, respectively, and the fhlbny does not receive written assurances from the new jersey department of banking and insurance regarding prudential insurance 41 table of contents solvency, new borrowings from the fhlbny would be limited to a term of 90 days or less. although prudential insurance ratings are currently at or above the required minimum levels, there can be no assurance that the ratings will remain at these levels in the future. we cannot predict what additional actions rating agencies may take, or what actions we may take in response to the actions of rating agencies, which could adversely affect our business. as with other companies in the financial services industry, our ratings could be downgraded at any time and without notice by any rating agency. losses due to defaults by others, including issuers of investment securities or reinsurance, bond insurers and derivative instrument counterparties, downgrades in the ratings of securities we hold or of bond insurers, insolvencies of insurers in jurisdictions where we write business and other factors affecting our counterparties or the value of their securities could adversely affect the value of our investments, the realization of amounts contractually owed to us, result in assessments or additional statutory capital requirements or reduce our profitability or sources of liquidity. issuers and borrowers whose securities or loans we hold, customers, vendors, trading counterparties, counterparties under swaps and other derivative contracts, reinsurers, clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses and other financial intermediaries and guarantors, including bond insurers, may default on their obligations to us or be unable to perform service functions that are significant to our business due to bankruptcy, insolvency, lack of liquidity, adverse economic conditions, operational failure, fraud or other reasons. such defaults, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. a downgrade in the ratings of bond insurers could also result in declines in the value of our fixed maturity investments supported by guarantees from bond insurers. in addition, we use derivative instruments to hedge various risks, including certain guaranteed minimum benefits contained in many of our variable annuity products. we enter into a variety of derivative instruments, including options, forwards, interest rate, credit default and currency swaps with a number of counterparties. amounts that we expect to collect under current and future contracts, including, but not limited to reinsurance contracts, are subject to counterparty risk. our obligations under our products are not changed by our hedging activities and we are liable for our obligations even if our derivative counterparties, including reinsurers, do not pay us. such defaults could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. under state insurance guaranty association laws and similar laws in international jurisdictions, we are subject to assessments, based on the share of business we write in the relevant jurisdiction, for certain obligations of insolvent insurance companies to policyholders and claimants. we use reinsurance as part of our capital management with respect to our closed block business. ratings downgrades or financial difficulties of reinsurers may require us to utilize additional capital with respect to the business. certain product related risks guarantees within certain of our products that protect policyholders may decrease our earnings or increase the volatility of our results of operations or financial position under u.s. gaap if our hedging or risk management strategies prove ineffective or insufficient. certain of our products, particularly our variable annuity products, include guarantees of income streams for stated periods or for life. downturns in equity markets, increased equity volatility, or (as discussed above) reduced interest rates could result in an increase in the valuation of liabilities associated with such products, resulting in increases in reserves and reductions in net income. we use a variety of hedging and risk management strategies, including product features, to mitigate these risks in part. these strategies may, however, not be fully effective. we may also choose not to fully hedge these risks. hedging instruments may not effectively offset the costs of guarantees or may otherwise be insufficient in relation to our obligations. hedging instruments also may 42 table of contents not change in value correspondingly with associated liabilities due to equity market or interest rate conditions or other reasons. we sometimes choose to hedge these risks on a basis that does not correspond to their anticipated or actual impact upon our results of operations or financial position under u.s. gaap. changes from period to period in the valuation of these policy benefits, and in the amount of our obligations effectively hedged, will result in volatility in our results of operations and financial position under u.s. gaap. estimates and assumptions we make in connection with hedging activities may fail to reflect or correspond to our actual long-term exposure in respect of our guarantees. further, the risk of increases in the costs of our guarantees not covered by our hedging and other capital and risk management strategies may become more significant due to changes in policyholder behavior driven by market conditions or other factors. the above factors, individually or collectively, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. we may not be able to mitigate the reserve strain associated with regulation xxx and guideline axxx, potentially resulting in a negative impact on our capital position or in a need to increase prices and/or reduce sales of term or universal life products. the states of domicile of our domestic insurance subsidiaries have in place a regulation entitled valuation of life insurance policies, commonly known as regulation xxx, and a supporting guideline entitled the application of the valuation of life insurance policies, commonly known as guideline axxx. the regulation and supporting guideline require insurers to establish statutory reserves for term and universal life insurance policies with long-term premium guarantees that are consistent with the statutory reserves required for other individual life insurance policies with similar guarantees. many market participants believe that this level of reserves is excessive, and we have implemented reinsurance and capital management actions to mitigate the impact of regulation xxx and guideline axxx on our term and universal life insurance business. as we continue to underwrite term and universal life business, we expect to have borrowing needs to finance statutory reserves required under regulation xxx and guideline axxx. however, if we are unsuccessful in obtaining additional financing as a result of market conditions or otherwise, this could require us to increase prices and or/reduce our sales of term or universal life products and/or have a negative impact on our capital position. we may experience difficulty in marketing and distributing products through our current and future distribution channels. although we distribute our products through a wide variety of distribution channels, we do maintain relationships with certain key distributors. for example, a significant amount of our sales in japan through banks is derived through a single major japanese bank and a significant portion of our sales in japan through life consultants is derived through a single association relationship. we periodically negotiate the terms of these relationships, and there can be no assurance that such terms will remain acceptable to us or such third parties. an interruption in certain key relationships could materially affect our ability to market our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. distributors may elect to reduce or terminate their distribution relationships with us, including for such reasons as adverse developments in our business, adverse rating agency actions or concerns about market-related risks. we are also at risk that key distribution partners may merge, change their business models in ways that affect how our products are sold, or terminate their distribution contracts with us, or that new distribution channels could emerge and adversely impact the effectiveness of our distribution efforts. an increase in bank and broker-dealer consolidation activity could increase competition for access to distributors, result in greater distribution expenses and impair our ability to market products through these channels. consolidation of distributors and/or other industry changes may also increase the likelihood that distributors will try to renegotiate the terms of any existing selling agreements to terms less favorable to us. when our products are distributed through unaffiliated firms, we may not be able to monitor or control the manner of their distribution despite our training and compliance programs. if our products are distributed by such firms in an inappropriate manner, or to customers for whom they are unsuitable, we may suffer reputational and other harm to our business. 43 table of contents regulatory and legal risks our businesses are heavily regulated and changes in regulation may reduce our profitability. our businesses are subject to comprehensive regulation and supervision. the purpose of this regulation is primarily to protect our customers and not necessarily our shareholders. many of the laws and regulations to which we are subject, including those to which our international businesses are subject, are regularly re-examined, and existing or future laws and regulations may become more restrictive or otherwise adversely affect our operations. the financial market dislocations we have experienced have produced, and are expected to continue to produce, extensive changes in existing laws and regulations, and regulatory frameworks, applicable to our businesses in the u.s. and internationally. prudential financial is subject to the rules and regulations of the sec and the nyse relating to public reporting and disclosure, securities trading, accounting and financial reporting, and corporate governance matters. the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and rules and regulations adopted in furtherance of that act have substantially increased the requirements in these and other areas for public companies such as prudential financial. our internal controls over financial reporting may have gaps or other deficiencies and there is no assurance that significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in internal controls may not occur in the future. any such gaps or deficiencies may require significant resources to remediate and may also expose the company to litigation, regulatory fines or penalties or other losses. many insurance regulatory and other governmental or self-regulatory bodies have the authority to review our products and business practices and those of our agents and employees and to bring regulatory or other legal actions against us if, in their view, our practices, or those of our agents or employees, are improper. these actions can result in substantial fines, penalties or prohibitions or restrictions on our business activities and could adversely affect our business, reputation, results of operations or financial condition. congress from time to time enacts pension reform legislation that could decrease or increase the attractiveness of certain of our retirement products and services to retirement plan sponsors and administrators, or have an unfavorable or favorable effect on our ability to earn revenues from these products and services. over time, these changes could hinder our sales of defined benefit pension products and services and cause sponsors to discontinue existing plans for which we provide asset management, administrative, or other services. insurance regulators have implemented changes in the way in which companies must determine statutory reserves for variable annuities and products with similar guarantees as of the end of 2009. insurance regulators continue to proceed to develop a principles based reserving approach for life insurance products. the timing and the effect of these changes are still uncertain. insurance regulators are reviewing life insurers use of captive reinsurance companies. we cannot predict what, if any, changes may result from this review. if applicable insurance laws are changed in a way that impairs the use of captive reinsurance companies, our financial results and liquidity and capital position may be adversely affected. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources captive reinsurance companies for information on our use of captive reinsurance companies. the naic is reviewing life insurers use of separate accounts that are insulated (where assets of the separate account equal to the reserves and other contract liabilities with respect to the account may not be charged with liabilities arising out of any other business of the company) for products that are not variable, which might lead to a recommendation against the allowance of insulation for certain products. we cannot predict what, if any, changes may result from this review and possible recommendations. if applicable insurance laws are changed in a way that impairs the use of insulation for certain contracts, our ability to compete effectively in certain markets may be adversely affected. in addition, our financial results and liquidity and capital position may also be adversely affected. the failure of prudential insurance and our other domestic insurance subsidiaries to meet applicable risk based capital, or rbc, requirements or minimum statutory capital and surplus requirements could subject those subsidiaries to further examination or corrective action by state insurance regulators. the failure to maintain the 44 table of contents rbc ratios of prudential insurance and our other domestic insurance subsidiaries at desired levels could also adversely impact our competitive position, including as a result of downgrades to our financial strength ratings. our international insurance companies are subject to conceptually similar measures of capital adequacy, including solvency margin ratios for our japanese insurance companies, and we face similar risks as those described for our domestic companies in the event that we are unable to maintain these measures at adequate levels. further, adverse financial performance in the closed block business in prudential insurance, including adverse investment performance, may adversely affect prudential insurance rbc ratios, although dividends to closed block policyholders may be subsequently adjusted to reflect such performance. currently, there are several proposals to amend state insurance holding company laws to increase the scope of the regulation of insurance holding companies (such as prudential financial). these proposals include imposing standards for insurer corporate governance, risk management, group-wide supervision of insurance holding companies, adjustments to risk-based capital calculations to account for group-wide risks, and additional regulatory and disclosure requirements for insurance holding companies. in addition, state insurance regulators have focused attention on u.s. insurance solvency regulation pursuant to the naic solvency modernization initiative , including regulatory review of companies risk management practices and analyses. at this time, we cannot predict with any degree of certainty what additional capital requirements, compliance costs or other burdens these requirements may impose on prudential financial. compliance with applicable laws and regulations is time consuming and personnel-intensive, and changes in these laws and regulations may materially increase our direct and indirect compliance and other expenses of doing business, thus having a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. see business regulation for discussion of regulation of our businesses. the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act has and will subject us to substantial additional federal regulation and we cannot predict the effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act ( dodd-frank ), subjects us to substantial federal regulation. dodd-frank directs existing and newly-created government agencies and bodies to promulgate regulations implementing the law, a process that is underway and expected to continue over the next few years. we cannot predict with any certainty the requirements of the regulations recently or not yet adopted or how dodd-frank and such regulations will affect the financial markets generally, impact our business, credit or financial strength ratings, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition or advise or require us to hold or raise additional capital. key aspects of dodd-frank impact on us include: on october 19, 2012, we received notice that we are under consideration by the financial stability oversight council ( council ) for a proposed determination that prudential financial should be subject to stricter prudential regulatory standards and supervision by the board of governors of the federal reserve system ( frb ) pursuant to dodd-frank as a designated financial company. we cannot predict whether prudential financial will be designated as a designated financial company. if so designated, we would become subject to stricter prudential standards, including stricter requirements and limitations relating to risk-based capital, leverage, liquidity and credit exposure, and a requirement to maintain a plan for rapid and orderly dissolution in the event of severe financial distress. failure to meet defined measures of financial condition could result in substantial restrictions on our business and capital distributions. we would also become subject to stress tests to be promulgated by the frb which could cause us to alter our business practices or affect the perceptions of regulators, rating agencies, customers, counterparties or investors of our financial strength. if designated, we could also be subject, pursuant to future frb rulemaking, to additional capital requirements for, and quantitative limits on, proprietary trading and sponsorship of, and investment in, hedge, private equity and other covered funds. the council could recommend new or heightened standards and safeguards for activities or practices we and other financial services companies engage in. we cannot predict whether any such recommendations will be made or their effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. 45 table of contents dodd-frank creates a new framework for regulation of the over-the-counter ( otc ) derivatives markets which could impact various activities of prudential global funding ( pgf ), prudential financial and our insurance subsidiaries, which use derivatives for various purposes (including hedging interest rate, foreign currency and equity market exposures). final regulations adopted could substantially increase the cost of hedging and related operations, affect the profitability of our products or their attractiveness to our clients or cause us to alter our hedging strategy or implementation thereof or increase and/or change the composition of the risks we do not hedge. title ii of dodd-frank provides that a financial company such as prudential financial may be subject to a special orderly liquidation process outside the federal bankruptcy code, administered by the fdic as receiver, upon a determination that the company is in default or in danger of default and presents a systemic risk to u.s. financial stability. we cannot predict how creditors of prudential financial or its insurance and non-insurance subsidiaries, including the holders of prudential financial debt, will evaluate this potential or whether it will impact our financing or hedging costs. see business regulation for further discussion of the impact of dodd-frank on our businesses. foreign governmental actions could subject us to substantial additional regulation. in addition to the adoption of dodd-frank in the united states, the financial stability board (fsb), consisting of representatives of national financial authorities of the g20 nations, and the g20 have issued a series of proposals intended to produce significant changes in how financial companies, particularly companies that are members of large and complex financial groups, should be regulated. the lawmakers and regulatory authorities in a number of jurisdictions in which we do business have already begun introducing legislative and regulatory changes consistent with g20 and fsb recommendations, including proposals governing consolidated regulation of insurance holdings companies by the financial services agency (fsa) in japan, proposals governing executive compensation by the financial regulators in germany (bafin) and the united kingdom. in addition, the prudential regulation of insurance and reinsurance companies across the european economic area (eea) is due for significant change under the solvency ii directive, which was adopted on november 25, 2009 and could come into force as early as january 2014. this new regime will effect a full revision of the insurance industry solvency framework and prudential regime and may have significant implications for non-european insurance groups, like ourselves, that have established insurance undertakings within the eea. additionally, the iais is currently evaluating whether certain insurance groups, such as prudential financial, should be designated as global systemically important insurers or gsiis. insurance groups designated as gsiis will be subject to enhanced group supervision, higher capital requirements and enhanced resolution regimes. we cannot predict with any certainty the effect these initiatives may have on the financial markets or on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. adverse market, economic and financial conditions in europe have given rise to a perceived risk of defaults on the government securities of certain european countries and potentially by financial institutions with significant direct or indirect exposure to such government securities. further regulatory initiatives may develop in response to these conditions and related political and economic events such as possible changes in the euro or to the structure or membership of the european monetary union. changes in accounting requirements could negatively impact our reported results of operations and our reported financial position. accounting standards are continuously evolving and subject to change. for example, consideration has been given to requiring companies like prudential financial to report financial results in accordance with international financial reporting standards ( ifrs ) as issued by the international accounting standards board rather than u.s. gaap. regardless of whether the sec requires ifrs, u.s. gaap may undergo extensive changes as a result of current standard setting initiatives of the financial accounting standards board. these and other changes in accounting standards may impose special demands on issuers in areas such as corporate governance, internal controls and disclosure. changes in accounting standards, or their interpretation, may negatively affect our reported results of operations and our reported financial condition. 46 table of contents changes in u.s. federal income tax law or in the income tax laws of other jurisdictions in which we operate could make some of our products less attractive to consumers and increase our tax costs. there is uncertainty regarding u.s. taxes both for individuals and corporations. discussions in washington continue concerning the need to reform the tax code, primarily by lowering the tax rates and broadening the base by reducing or eliminating certain tax expenditures. reducing or eliminating certain tax expenditures could make our products less attractive to customers. it is unclear whether or when congress may take up overall tax reform and what would be the impact of reform on the company and its products. however even in the absence of overall tax reform, the large federal deficit, as well as the budget constraints faced by many states and localities, increases the likelihood that congress and state and local governments will raise revenue by enacting legislation increasing the taxes paid by individuals and corporations. this can be accomplished either by raising rates or otherwise changing the tax rules. congress from time to time considers legislation that could make our products less attractive to consumers. current u.s. federal income tax laws generally permit certain holders to defer taxation on the build-up of value of annuities and life insurance products until payments are actually made to the policyholder or other beneficiary and to exclude from taxation the death benefit paid under a life insurance contract. while higher tax rates increase the benefits of tax deferral on the build-up of value of annuities and life insurance, making our products more attractive to consumers, legislation that reduces or eliminates deferral would have a potential negative effect on our products. in addition, changes in the tax rules that result in higher corporate taxes will increase the company actual tax expense, thereby reducing earnings. congress, as well as state and local governments, also considers from time to time legislation that could increase the amount of corporate taxes we pay, thereby reducing earnings. for example, changes in the law relating to tax reserving methodologies for term life or universal life insurance policies with secondary guarantees or other products could result in higher current taxes. the obama administration revenue proposals include proposals which, if enacted, would affect the taxation of life insurance companies and certain life insurance products. in particular, the proposals would affect the treatment of corporate owned life insurance policies, or coli, by limiting the availability of certain interest deductions for companies that purchase those policies. the proposals would also change the method used to determine the amount of dividend income received by a life insurance company on assets held in separate accounts used to support products, including variable life insurance and variable annuity contracts that is eligible for the dividends received deduction, or drd. the drd reduces the amount of dividend income subject to tax and is a significant component of the difference between our actual tax expense and the expected tax amount determined using the federal statutory tax rate of 35%. if proposals of this type were enacted, the company sale of coli, variable annuities, and variable life insurance products could be adversely affected and the company actual tax expense could increase, thereby reducing earnings. the administration revenue proposals also include changes to the method by which u.s. multinational corporations claim foreign tax credits and the timing of the deduction for interest expense that is allocable to foreign-source income. if proposals of this type were enacted, the company actual tax expense could increase, thereby reducing earnings. the products we sell have different tax characteristics, in some cases generating tax deductions. the level of profitability of certain of our products is significantly dependent on these characteristics and our ability to continue to generate taxable income, which is taken into consideration when pricing products and is a component of our capital management strategies. accordingly, changes in tax law, our ability to generate taxable income, or other factors impacting the availability or value of the tax characteristics generated by our products, could impact product pricing and returns or require us to reduce our sales of these products or implement other actions that could be disruptive to our businesses. in addition, the adoption of principles based approaches for statutory reserves may lead to significant changes to the way tax reserves are determined and thus reduce future tax deductions. 47 table of contents our ability to meet obligations, pay shareholder dividends, and to engage in share repurchases may be adversely affected by limitations imposed on dividends and other distributions from our subsidiaries. prudential financial is the holding company for all our operations, and dividends, returns of capital and interest income from its subsidiaries are the principal source of funds available to prudential financial to pay shareholder dividends, to make share repurchases and to meet its other obligations. these sources of funds may be complemented by prudential financial access, if available, to the capital markets and bank facilities. as described under business regulation and note 15 to the consolidated financial statements, our domestic and foreign insurance and various other subsidiary companies, are subject to regulatory limitations on the payment of dividends and on other transfers of funds to prudential financial. in addition to these regulatory limitations, the terms of the ihc debt contain restrictions potentially limiting dividends by prudential insurance applicable to the financial services businesses in the event the closed block business is in financial distress and under other circumstances. finally, our management of our subsidiaries to have capitalization consistent with their ratings objectives itself may constrain their payment of dividends. these restrictions on prudential financial subsidiaries may limit or prevent such subsidiaries from making dividend payments to prudential financial in an amount sufficient to fund prudential financial obligations, shareholder dividends and share repurchases. from time to time, the naic and various state and foreign insurance regulators have considered, and may in the future consider, proposals to further limit dividend payments that an insurance company may make without regulatory approval. legal and regulatory actions are inherent in our businesses and could adversely affect our results of operations or financial position or harm our businesses or reputation. we are, and in the future may be, subject to legal and regulatory actions in the ordinary course of our businesses, including in businesses that we have divested or placed in wind-down status. some of these proceedings have been brought on behalf of various alleged classes of complainants. in certain of these matters, the plaintiffs are seeking large and/or indeterminate amounts, including punitive or exemplary damages. legal liability or adverse publicity in respect of these or future legal or regulatory actions could have an adverse affect on us or cause us reputational harm, which in turn could harm our business prospects. material pending litigation and regulatory matters affecting us, and certain risks to our businesses presented by such matters, are discussed under commitments and guarantees, contingent liabilities and litigation and regulatory matters in the note 23 to consolidated financial statements. our litigation and regulatory matters are subject to many uncertainties, and given their complexity and scope, their outcome cannot be predicted. our reserves for litigation and regulatory matters may prove to be inadequate. it is possible that our results of operations or cash flow in a particular quarterly or annual period could be materially affected by an ultimate unfavorable resolution of pending litigation and regulatory matters depending, in part, upon the results of operations or cash flow for such period. in light of the unpredictability of the company litigation and regulatory matters, it is also possible that in certain cases an ultimate unfavorable resolution of one or more pending litigation or regulatory matters could have a material adverse effect on the company financial position. we may not be able to protect our intellectual property and may be subject to infringement claims. we rely on a combination of contractual rights with third parties and copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws to establish and protect our intellectual property. although we endeavor to protect our rights, third parties may infringe or misappropriate our intellectual property. we may have to litigate to enforce and protect our copyrights, trademarks, patents, trade secrets and know-how or to determine their scope, validity or enforceability. this would represent a diversion of resources that may be significant and our efforts may not prove successful. the inability to secure or protect our intellectual property assets could have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to compete. we may be subject to claims by third parties for (i) patent, trademark or copyright infringement, (ii) breach of copyright, trademark or license usage rights, or (iii) misappropriation of trade secrets. any such claims and any resulting litigation could result in significant expense and liability for damages. if we were found to have infringed or misappropriated a third-party patent or other intellectual property right, we could in some circumstances be enjoined from providing certain products or services to our customers or from utilizing and 48 table of contents benefiting from certain methods, processes, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets or licenses. alternatively, we could be required to enter into costly licensing arrangements with third parties or implement a costly work around. any of these scenarios could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. operational risks our risk management policies and procedures and our minority investments in joint ventures may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk, which could adversely affect our businesses or result in losses. our policies, procedures and controls to monitor and manage risks, including hedging programs that utilize derivative financial instruments, may not be fully effective in achieving their purposes and may leave us exposed to unidentified and unanticipated risks. the company uses models in its hedging programs and many other aspects of its operations, including but not limited to the estimation of actuarial reserves, the amortization of dac and voba, and the valuation of certain other assets and liabilities. these models rely on assumptions and projections that are inherently uncertain. management of operational, legal and regulatory risks requires, among other things, policies, procedures and controls to record properly and verify a large number of transactions and events, and these policies, procedures and controls may not be fully effective. past or future misconduct by our employees or employees of our vendors could result in violations of law by us, regulatory sanctions and/or serious reputational or financial harm and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. although we employ controls and procedures designed to monitor associates business decisions and prevent us from taking excessive or inappropriate risks, there can be no assurance that these controls and procedures are or may be effective. we review our compensation policies and practices as part of our overall risk management program, but it is possible that our compensation policies and practices could inadvertently incentivize excessive or inappropriate risk taking. if our associates take excessive or inappropriate risks, those risks could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. in our investments in which we hold a minority interest, or that are managed by third parties, we lack management and operational control over operations, which may prevent us from taking or causing to be taken actions to protect or increase the value of those investments. in those jurisdictions where we are constrained by law from owning a majority interest in jointly owned operations, our remedies in the event of a breach by a joint venture partner may be limited (e.g., we may have no ability to exercise a call option). interruption in telecommunication, information technology and other operational systems, or a failure to maintain the security, confidentiality or privacy of sensitive data residing on such systems, could harm our business. we depend heavily on our telecommunication, information technology and other operational systems and on the integrity and timeliness of data we use to run our businesses and service our customers. these systems may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events or circumstances wholly or partly beyond our control. further, we face the risk of operational and technology failures by others, including clearing agents, exchanges and other financial intermediaries and of vendors and parties to which we outsource the provision of services or business operations. if these parties do not perform as anticipated, we may experience operational difficulties, increased costs and other adverse effects on our business. these risks are heightened by our offering of increasingly complex products, such as those that feature automatic asset transfer or re-allocation strategies, and by our employment of complex investment, trading and hedging programs. despite our implementation of a variety of security measures, our information technology and other systems could be subject to physical or electronic break-ins, unauthorized tampering or other security breaches, resulting in a failure to maintain the security, confidentiality or privacy of sensitive data, including personal information relating to customers, or in the misappropriation of our intellectual property or proprietary information. 49 table of contents interruption in telecommunication, information technology and other operational systems, or a failure to maintain the security, confidentiality or privacy of sensitive data residing on such systems, whether due to actions by us or others, could delay or disrupt our ability to do business and service our customers, harm our reputation, subject us to regulatory sanctions and other claims, lead to a loss of customers and revenues and otherwise adversely affect our business. we face risks arising from acquisitions, divestitures and restructurings, including client losses, surrenders and withdrawals, difficulties in integrating and realizing the projected results of acquisitions and contingent liabilities with respect to dispositions. we face a number of risks arising from acquisition transactions, including the risk that, following the acquisition or reorganization of a business, we could experience client losses, surrenders or withdrawals or other results materially different from those we anticipate, as well as difficulties in integrating and realizing the projected results of acquisitions and restructurings and managing the litigation and regulatory matters to which acquired entities are party. we have retained insurance or reinsurance obligations and other contingent liabilities in connection with our divestiture or winding down of various businesses, and our reserves for these obligations and liabilities may prove to be inadequate. these risks may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. other risks the occurrence of natural or man-made disasters could adversely affect our operations, results of operations and financial condition. the occurrence of natural disasters, including hurricanes, floods, earthquakes, tsunamis, tornadoes, fires, explosions, pandemic disease and man-made disasters, including acts of terrorism and military actions, could adversely affect our operations, results of operations or financial condition, including in the following respects: catastrophic loss of life due to natural or man-made disasters could cause us to pay benefits at higher levels and/or materially earlier than anticipated and could lead to unexpected changes in persistency rates. a natural or man-made disaster could result in disruptions in our operations, losses in our investment portfolio or the failure of our counterparties to perform, or cause significant volatility in global financial markets. a terrorist attack affecting financial institutions in the united states or elsewhere could negatively impact the financial services industry in general and our business operations, investment portfolio and profitability in particular. pandemic disease, caused by a virus such as h5n1, the avian flu virus, or h1n1, the swine flu virus, could have a severe adverse effect on prudential financial business. the potential impact of such a pandemic on prudential financial results of operations and financial position is highly speculative, and would depend on numerous factors, including: the effectiveness of vaccines and the rate of contagion; the regions of the world most affected; the effectiveness of treatment for the infected population; the rates of mortality and morbidity among various segments of the insured population; the collectability of reinsurance; the possible macroeconomic effects of a pandemic on the company asset portfolio; the effect on lapses and surrenders of existing policies, as well as sales of new policies; and many other variables. there can be no assurance that our business continuation plans and insurance coverages would be effective in mitigating any negative effects on our operations or profitability in the event of a terrorist attack or other disaster. climate change, and its regulation, may affect the prospects of companies and other entities whose securities we hold and other counterparties, including reinsurers, and affect the value of investments, including real estate investments we hold or manage for others. our current evaluation is that the near term effects of climate change and climate change regulation on the company are not material, but we cannot predict the long term impacts on us from climate change or its regulation. 50 table of contents we have substantial international operations and our international operations face political, legal, operational and other risks that could adversely affect those operations or our profitability. a substantial portion of our revenues and income from continuing operations is derived from our operations outside the u.s., primarily japan and korea. these operations are subject to restrictions on transferring funds out of the countries in which they are located. some of our foreign insurance and investment management operations are, and are likely to continue to be, in emerging markets where this risk, as well as risks of discriminatory regulation, labor issues in connection with workers associations and trade unions, price controls, currency exchange controls, nationalization or expropriation of assets, are heightened. if our business model is not successful in a particular country, we may lose all or most of our investment in building and training our sales force in that country. many of our insurance products sold in international markets, including japan, provide for the buildup of cash values for the policyholder at contractually fixed guaranteed interest rates. actual returns on the underlying investments may not necessarily support the guaranteed interest rates and there may be times when the spread between the actual investment returns and these guaranteed rates of return to the policyholder is negative and in which this negative spread may not be offset by the mortality, morbidity and expense charges we earn on the products. our international businesses are subject to the tax laws and regulations of the countries in which they are organized and in which they operate. foreign governments from time to time consider legislation that could increase the amount of taxes that we pay or impact the sales of our products. such changes could result in a decrease in sales of our products or in our profits. our international operations are regulated in the jurisdictions in which they are located or operate. these regulations may apply heightened scrutiny to non-domestic companies, which can reduce our flexibility as to intercompany transactions, investments and other aspects of business operations and adversely affect our liquidity, profitability, and regulatory capital. intense competition, including the impact of government sponsored programs and other actions on us and our competitors, could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our market share or profitability. in each of our businesses we face intense competition from domestic and foreign insurance companies, asset managers and diversified financial institutions, both for the ultimate customers for our products and, in many businesses, for distribution through non-affiliated distribution channels. we compete based on a number of factors including brand recognition, reputation, quality of service, quality of investment advice, investment performance of our products, product features, scope of distribution and distribution arrangements, price, perceived financial strength and credit and financial strength ratings. a decline in our competitive position as to one or more of these factors could adversely affect our profitability and assets under management. many of our competitors are large and well-established and some have greater market share or breadth of distribution, offer a broader range of products, services or features, assume a greater level of risk, have lower profitability expectations or have higher financial strength or credit ratings than we do. the proliferation and growth of non-affiliated distribution channels puts pressure on our captive sales channels to increase their productivity and reduce their costs in order to remain competitive, and we run the risk that the marketplace will make a more significant or rapid shift to non-affiliated or direct distribution alternatives than we anticipate or are able to achieve ourselves, potentially adversely affecting our market share and results of operations. in certain international markets in which we operate, we face competition from government owned entities that benefit from pricing or other competitive advantages. the competitive landscape in which we operate may be further affected by government sponsored programs, as well as by longer term fiscal policies, adopted in the u.s. and outside of the u.s. in response to dislocations in financial markets and the economy. competitors that receive governmental financing or other assistance or subsidies, including governmental guarantees of their obligations, or that are not subject to the same regulatory constraints, may have or obtain pricing or other competitive advantages. changes in laws and regulations in response to adverse market and economic conditions may result in us being classified differently than competitors for purposes of capital and other requirements, potentially affecting our ability to compete and the competitive landscape generally. 51 table of contents competition for personnel in all of our businesses is intense, including for executive officers and management personnel, prudential agents, life planners, life consultants and other sales personnel, and our investment managers. we devote significant efforts to talent management and development and are subject to the risk that executive, management and other personnel will be hired or recruited by competitors. competition for desirable non-affiliated distribution channels is also intense. the loss of key personnel or non-affiliated distribution channels could have an adverse effect on our business and profitability. regulatory requirements could delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that shareholders might consider in their best interests. various states in which our insurance companies are domiciled, including new jersey, must approve any direct or indirect change of control of insurance companies organized in those states. the u.s. federal securities laws could also require reapproval by customers of our investment advisory contracts to manage mutual funds, including mutual funds included in annuity products, upon a change in control. in addition, the new jersey business corporation act prohibits certain business combinations with interested shareholders. these regulatory and other restrictions may delay a potential merger or sale of prudential financial, even if the board of directors decides that it is in the best interests of shareholders to merge or be sold. holders of our common stock are subject to risks due to the issuance of our class b stock, a second class of common stock. the businesses of prudential financial are separated into the financial services businesses and the closed block business, and our common stock reflects the performance of the financial services businesses and the class b stock reflects the performance of the closed block business. there are a number of risks to holders of our common stock by virtue of this dual common stock structure, including: even though we allocate all our consolidated assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses and cash flow between the financial services businesses and the closed block business for financial statement purposes, there is no legal separation between the financial services businesses and the closed block business. holders of common stock have no interest in a separate legal entity representing the financial services businesses; holders of the class b stock have no interest in a separate legal entity representing the closed block business; and therefore holders of each class of common stock are subject to all of the risks associated with an investment in the company. the financial results of the closed block business, including debt service on the ihc debt, will affect prudential financial consolidated results of operations, financial position and borrowing costs. the market value of our common stock may not reflect solely the performance of the financial services businesses. we cannot pay cash dividends on our common stock for any period if we choose not to pay dividends on the class b stock in an aggregate amount at least equal to the lesser of the cb distributable cash flow or the target dividend amount on the class b stock for that period. see market for registrant common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities for the definition of these terms. any net losses of the closed block business, and any dividends or distributions on, or repurchases of the class b stock, would reduce the assets of prudential financial legally available for dividends on the common stock. holders of common stock and class b stock vote together as a single class of common stock under new jersey law, except as otherwise required by law and except that the holders of the class b stock have class voting or consent rights with respect to specified matters directly affecting the class b stock. shares of class b stock are entitled to a higher proportionate amount upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of prudential financial than shares of common stock. we may exchange the class b stock for shares of common stock at any time, and the class b stock is mandatorily exchangeable in the event of a sale of all or substantially all of the closed block business or a change of control of prudential financial, as discussed under market for registrant common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities. 52 table of contents our board of directors has adopted certain policies regarding inter-business transfers and accounting and tax matters, including the allocation of earnings, with respect to the financial services businesses and closed block business. although the board of directors may change any of these policies, any such decision is subject to the board of directors general fiduciary duties, and we have agreed with investors in the class b stock and the insurer of the ihc debt that, in most cases, the board of directors may not change these policies without their consent. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 196 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk and risk management market risk is the risk of change in the value of financial instruments as a result of absolute or relative changes in, among other things, interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and equity prices. to varying degrees, the investment activities supporting all of our products and services generate exposure to market risk. the primary source of our exposure to market risk is other than trading activities conducted primarily in our insurance and annuity operations. the market risk incurred and our strategies for managing this risk vary by product. the market risk associated with trading activities is immaterial. risk management includes the identification and measurement of various forms of risk, the establishment of risk thresholds and the creation of processes intended to maintain risks within these thresholds while optimizing returns on the underlying assets or liabilities. risk range limits are established for each type of risk, and are approved by the investment committee of the board of directors and subject to ongoing review. our risk management process is an integral part of managing our core businesses, and utilizes a variety of risk management tools and techniques, including: measures of price sensitivity to market changes (e.g., interest rates, foreign exchange, equity index prices) value-at-risk, or var measures asset/liability management analytics stress scenario testing disciplined hedging programs risk management governance, including risk oversight committees, policies and limits for additional information regarding the potential impacts of interest rate and other market fluctuations, as well as general economic and market conditions on our businesses and profitability, see item 1a. risk factors. for additional information regarding the overall management of our general account investments and our asset mix strategies, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations general account investments management of investments. for additional information regarding our liquidity and capital resources, which may be impacted by changing market risks, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources. market risk related to interest rates assets that subject us to interest rate risk primarily include fixed maturity securities, commercial mortgage and other loans and policy loans. liabilities that subject us to interest rate risk primarily include policyholder account balances relating to interest-sensitive life insurance, annuity and other investment-type contracts, as well as through outstanding short-term and long-term debt. changes in interest rates create risk that the resulting changes in asset values will differ from the changes in the value of the liabilities relating to the underlying or hedged products. derivatives that subject us to interest rate risk primarily include interest rate swaps, forwards, futures and options. additionally, changes in interest rates may impact other items including, but not limited to, the following: net investment spread between the amounts that we are required to pay and the rate of return we are able to earn on investments for certain products supported by general account investments asset-based fees earned on assets under management or contractholder account value estimated total gross profits and the amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs net exposure to the guarantees provided under certain products equity of our regulated entities we use duration and convexity analyses to measure price sensitivity to interest rate changes. duration measures the relative sensitivity of the fair value of a financial instrument to changes in interest rates. convexity 196 table of contents measures the rate of change of duration with respect to changes in interest rates. we use asset/liability management and derivative strategies to manage our interest rate exposure by legal entity by matching the relative sensitivity of asset and liability values to interest rate changes, or controlling duration mismatch of assets and liabilities. we have duration mismatch constraints tailored to the rate sensitivity of products in each entity. in certain markets, primarily outside the u.s. and japan, capital market limitations that hinder our ability to acquire assets that closely approximate the duration of some of our liabilities are considered in setting the limits. as of december 31, 2012 and 2011, the difference between the duration of assets and the target duration of liabilities in our duration-managed portfolios was within our limits. we consider risk-based capital and tax implications as well as current market conditions in our asset/liability management strategies. we assess the impact of interest rate movements on the value of our financial assets, financial liabilities and derivatives using hypothetical test scenarios that assume either upward or downward 100 basis point parallel shifts in the yield curve from prevailing interest rates, reflecting changes in either credit spreads or the risk-free rate. the following table sets forth the net estimated potential loss in fair value on these financial instruments from a hypothetical 100 basis point upward shift as of december 31, 2012 and 2011. this table is presented on a gross basis and excludes offsetting impacts to insurance liabilities that are not considered financial liabilities under u.s gaap. this scenario results in the greatest net exposure to interest rate risk of the hypothetical scenarios tested at those dates. while the test scenario is for illustrative purposes only and does not reflect our expectations regarding future interest rates or the performance of fixed-income markets, it is a near-term, reasonably possible hypothetical change that illustrates the potential impact of such events. these test scenarios do not measure the changes in value that could result from non-parallel shifts in the yield curve, which we would expect to produce different changes in discount rates for different maturities. as a result, the actual loss in fair value from a 100 basis point change in interest rates could be different from that indicated by these calculations. the estimated changes in fair values do not include separate account assets associated with products for which investment risk is borne primarily by the separate account contractholders. as of december 31, 2012 as of december 31, 2011(5) notional fair value hypothetical change in fair value notional fair value hypothetical change in fair value (in millions) financial assets with interest rate risk: fixed maturities(1) $ 326,489 $ (27,238 ) $ 279,099 $ (21,623 ) commercial mortgage and other loans 39,716 (1,658 ) 37,740 (1,520 ) policy loans 14,592 (902 ) 14,858 (987 ) derivatives: swaps $ 132,661 3,766 (4,818 ) $ 118,044 4,184 (3,460 ) futures 13,267 (166 ) 21 8,306 151 (88 ) options 68,099 1,330 (188 ) 30,506 1,466 (416 ) forwards 15,937 (60 ) (31 ) 19,120 (152 ) (35 ) synthetic gics 65,403 6 (2 ) 46,844 4 (2 ) variable annuity and other living benefit feature embedded derivatives(2) (3,348 ) 3,295 (2,886 ) 2,015 financial liabilities with interest rate risk(3): short-term and long-term debt (30,003 ) 2,473 (28,174 ) 2,223 limited recourse notes issued by consolidated vies(4) (224 ) 0 (493 ) 0 investment contracts (104,200 ) 3,730 (103,184 ) 3,543 bank customer liabilities 0 0 (1,745 ) 12 net estimated potential loss $ (25,318 ) $ (20,338 ) (1) includes fixed maturities classified as trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities and other fixed maturities classified as trading securities under u.s. gaap, but are held for other than trading activities in our segments that offer insurance, retirement and annuities products. (2) reflects only the gross change on the embedded derivatives, and excludes any offsetting impact of derivative instruments purchased to hedge such changes. (3) excludes approximately $249 billion and $203 billion as of december 31, 2012 and december 31, 2011, respectively, of insurance reserve and deposit liabilities which are not considered financial liabilities. we believe that the interest rate sensitivities of these insurance liabilities would serve as an offset to the net interest rate risk of the financial assets and liabilities, including investment contracts. (4) see note 5 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding consolidated variable interest entities (vies). (5) prior periods have been restated to conform to current period presentation. 197 table of contents our net estimated potential loss in fair value as of december 31, 2012 increased $4,980 million from december 31, 2011, primarily reflecting an increase in our fixed maturity securities portfolio in 2012, driven by inflows related to two significant pension risk transfer transactions in our retirement segment, in which we received approximately $31 billion of fixed maturity securities. the increase was also driven by reinvestment of net investment income and a net increase in fair value driven by a decrease in interest rates. for a discussion of changes in derivatives, see derivatives below. under u.s. gaap, the fair value of the embedded derivatives for certain variable annuity and other living benefit features, reflected in the table above, includes the impact of the market perception of our own non-performance risk ( npr ). the additional credit spread over libor rates incorporated into the discount rate as of december 31, 2012 to reflect npr in the valuation of these embedded derivatives ranged from 20 to 160 basis points. the following table provides a demonstration of the sensitivity of these embedded derivatives to our npr credit spread by quantifying the adjustments that would be required assuming both a 50 basis point parallel increase and decrease in our npr credit spreads. while the information below is for illustrative purposes only and does not reflect our expectations regarding our credit spreads, it is a near-term, reasonably possible change that illustrates the potential impact of such a change. this information considers only the direct effect of changes in our credit spread on operating results due to the change in these embedded derivatives and not changes in any other assumptions such as persistency, utilization and mortality, and also excludes the effect of these changes on dac or other balances. december 31, 2012 (increase) / reduction in embedded derivative liability (in millions) increase in credit spread by 50 basis points $ 933 decrease in credit spread by 50 basis points $ (1,177 ) for an additional discussion of our variable annuity optional living benefit guarantees accounted for as embedded derivatives and related derivatives used to hedge the changes in fair value of these embedded derivatives, see market risk related to certain variable annuity products below. for additional information about the key estimates and assumptions used in our determination of fair value, see note 20 to the consolidated financial statements. for information on the impacts of a sustained low interest rate environment, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations executive summary industry trends impact of a low interest rate environment. market risk related to equity prices we have exposure to equity price risk through our investments in equity securities, equity-based derivatives and certain variable annuity and other living benefit feature embedded derivatives. our equity based derivatives primarily hedge the equity price risk embedded in the living benefit feature embedded derivatives, and are also part of our capital hedging program. changes in equity prices create risk that the resulting changes in asset values will differ from the changes in the value of the liabilities relating to the underlying or hedged products. additionally, changes in equity prices may impact other items including, but not limited to, the following: asset-based fees earned on assets under management or contractholder account value estimated total gross profits and the amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs net exposure to the guarantees provided under certain products we actively manage investment equity price risk against benchmarks in respective markets. we benchmark our return on equity holdings against a blend of market indices, mainly the s&amp;p 500 and russell 2000 for u.s. equities. for foreign equities we benchmark against the tokyo price index, or topix, and the msci eafe, a market index of european, australian, and far eastern equities. we target price sensitivities that approximate those of the benchmark indices. we estimate our investment equity price risk from a hypothetical 10% decline in equity benchmark market levels and measure this risk in terms of the decline in fair market value of equity securities we hold. the 198 table of contents following table sets forth the net estimated potential loss in fair value from such a decline as of december 31, 2012 and 2011. while these scenarios are for illustrative purposes only and do not reflect our expectations regarding future performance of equity markets or of our equity portfolio, they represent near term reasonably possible hypothetical changes that illustrate the potential impact of such events. these scenarios consider only the direct impact on fair value of declines in equity benchmark market levels and not changes in asset-based fees recognized as revenue, changes in our estimates of total gross profits used as a basis for amortizing deferred policy acquisition and other costs, or changes in any other assumptions such as market volatility or mortality, utilization or persistency rates in our variable annuity contracts that could also impact the fair value of our living benefit features. in addition, these scenarios do not reflect the impact of basis risk, such as potential differences in the performance of the investment funds underlying the variable annuity products relative to the market indices we use as a basis for developing our hedging strategy. the impact of basis risk could result in larger differences between the change in fair value of the equity-based derivatives and the related living benefit features, in comparison to the scenarios above. in calculating these amounts, we exclude separate account equity securities related to products for which the investment risk is borne primarily by the separate account contractholder. as of december 31, 2012 as of december 31, 2011(4) notional fair value hypothetical change in fair value notional fair value hypothetical change in fair value (in millions) equity securities(1) $ 10,754 $ (1,075 ) $ 10,067 $ (1,007 ) equity-based derivatives(2) $ 55,054 248 1,504 $ 23,862 357 1,022 variable annuity and other living benefit feature embedded derivatives(2)(3) (3,348 ) (1,052 ) (2,886 ) (622 ) net estimated potential loss $ (623 ) $ (607 ) (1) includes equity securities classified as trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities and other equity securities classified as trading securities under u.s. gaap, but are held for other than trading activities in our segments that offer insurance, retirement and annuities products. (2) the notional and fair value of equity-based derivatives and the fair value of variable annuity and other living benefit feature embedded derivatives are also reflected in amounts under market risk related to interest rates above, and are not additive. (3) reflects only the gross change on the embedded derivatives, and excludes any offsetting impact of derivative instruments purchased to hedge such changes. (4) prior periods have been restated to conform to current period presentation. the sensitivity level as of december 31, 2012 was essentially flat compared with december 31, 2011, as the change in the estimated equity price risk associated with the living benefit features accounted for as an embedded derivative was offset by a corresponding change in equity-based derivatives used to hedge these features. for a discussion of derivatives, see derivatives below. for an additional discussion of our variable annuity optional living benefit guarantees accounted for as embedded derivatives and related derivatives used to hedge the changes in fair value of these embedded derivatives, see market risk related to certain variable annuity products below. for additional information regarding our capital hedging program, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources. market risk related to foreign currency exchange rates as a u.s.-based company with significant business operations outside the u.s., we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk related to these operations, as well as related to our general account investment portfolio and other proprietary-investment portfolios. for our international insurance operations, changes in foreign currency exchange rates create risk that we may experience volatility in the u.s. dollar-equivalent earnings and value of our equity investments in these operations. we actively manage this risk through various hedging strategies, including the use of foreign currency hedges and through holding u.s. dollar-denominated securities in the investment portfolios of certain of these operations. additionally, certain of our international insurance operations issue product liabilities that are denominated in currencies other than their own functional currencies, and hold underlying investments denominated in the corresponding currencies. this results in reporting of economically-matched foreign currency 199 table of contents exchange gains or losses on the assets and liabilities. however, we experience volatility in u.s. gaap earnings due to the fact that the changes in the value of the liabilities are recorded in earnings within asset management fees and other income, while changes in the value of the majority of the investments are recorded in equity in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), and, thereafter, are ultimately recorded in earnings in realized investment gains (losses), net in the period of maturity, sale or other-than-temporary impairment. for our domestic general account investment portfolios supporting our u.s. insurance operations and other proprietary-investment portfolios, our foreign currency exchange rate risk arises primarily from investments that are denominated in foreign currencies. we manage this risk by hedging substantially all domestic foreign currency-denominated fixed-income investments into u.s. dollars. we generally do not hedge all of the foreign currency risk of our investments in equity securities of unaffiliated foreign entities. we manage our foreign currency exchange rate risks within specified limits, and using var-based analysis. this statistical technique estimates, at a specified confidence level, the potential pre-tax loss in portfolio market value that could occur over an assumed time horizon due to adverse market movements. for the unhedged portions of our equity investment in international subsidiaries and the foreign currency-denominated investments held in our domestic general account portfolio, we estimate the hypothetical decline in var, as well as the average var, each measured at a 95% confidence level and using a one-month time horizon. these calculations use historical price volatilities and correlation data at a 95% confidence level. the following table sets forth these measures as of the periods indicated. as of december 31, 2012 as of december 31, 2011 fair value estimated var average var fair value estimated var average var (in millions) unhedged portion of equity investment in international subsidiaries and foreign currency-denominated investments in domestic general account portfolio(1) $ 4,373 $ (79 ) $ (101 ) $ 4,322 $ (176 ) $ (137 ) (1) excludes assets and liabilities subject to the impact of foreign exchange rate movements that are hedged with externally-purchased derivatives or are economically matched, as discussed above. the decrease in var as of december 31, 2012 was driven by a lower level of foreign exchange rate volatility. for derivatives used to hedge the anticipated level of u.s. dollar-equivalent earnings of our international operations, the estimated hypothetical decline in var, measured at a 95% confidence level and using a one-month time horizon was $81 million and $135 million as of december 31, 2012 and december 31, 2011, respectively. for additional information, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations general account investments portfolio composition, and management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations results of operations for financial services businesses by segment international insurance division. although var models are a recognized tool for risk management, they have inherent limitations, including reliance on historical data that may not be indicative of future market conditions or trading patterns. accordingly, var models should not be viewed as a predictor of future results. we may incur losses that could be materially in excess of the amounts indicated by the models on a particular trading day or over a period of time, and there have been instances when results have fallen outside the values generated by our var models. a var model does not estimate the greatest possible loss. the results of these models and analysis thereof are subject to the judgment of our risk management personnel. derivatives we use derivative financial instruments primarily to reduce market risk from changes in interest rates, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates, including to alter interest rate or foreign currency exposures arising from mismatches between assets and liabilities. our derivatives primarily include swaps, futures, options and forward contracts that are exchange-traded or contracted in the over-the-counter market. our derivatives also include interest rate guarantees we provide on our synthetic gic products. synthetic gics simulate the performance of traditional insurance-related gics but, under u.s. gaap, are accounted for as 200 table of contents derivatives due to the fact that the policyholders own the underlying assets, and we only provide a book value wrap on the customers funds, which are held in a client-owned trust. since these wraps provide payment of guaranteed principal and interest to the customer, changes in interest rates create risk that declines in the market value of customers funds would increase our net exposure to these guarantees. however, this risk is minimal due to several mitigating factors. our obligation is limited to payments that are in excess of the existing customers fund value. additionally, we have the ability to periodically reset crediting rates, subject to a 0% minimum floor, as well as the ability to increase prices. further, our contract provisions provide that, although participants may withdraw funds at book value, contractholder withdrawals may only occur at market value immediately or at book value over time. these factors, among others, result in these contracts experiencing minimal changes in fair value, despite a more significant notional value. our derivatives also include those that are embedded in certain financial instruments, and primarily relate to certain optional living benefit features associated with our variable annuity products, as discussed in more detail in market risk related to certain variable annuity products below. the notional amount of derivative instruments increased $72 billion in 2012, from $223 billion as of december 31, 2011 to $295 billion as of december 31, 2012. the increase was related to sales of investment-only stable value synthetic gic products, our variable annuity hedging activities, and our capital hedge program. for additional information on our derivative activities, see note 21 to the consolidated financial statements. market risk related to certain variable annuity products the primary risk exposures of our variable annuity contracts relate to actual deviations from, or changes to, the assumptions used in the original pricing of these products, including capital markets assumptions, such as equity market returns, interest rates and market volatility, and actuarial assumptions. for our capital markets assumptions, we hedge or limit our exposure to the risk created by capital markets fluctuations through a combination of product design elements, such as an automatic rebalancing element and inclusion of certain optional living benefits in our living benefits hedging program. certain variable annuity products with optional living benefit features are accounted for as an embedded derivative and recorded at fair value. the market risk sensitivities associated with u.s. gaap values of both the embedded derivatives and the related derivatives used to hedge the changes in fair value of these embedded derivatives is provided under market risk related to interest rates and market risk related to equity prices above. for additional information regarding our risk management strategies, including our living benefit hedging program and other product design elements, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations results of operations for financial services businesses by segment individual annuities. 201 table of contentsrisk factors 35 risk factors you should carefully consider the following risks. these risks are not exclusive, and additional risks to which we are subject include, but are not limited to, the factors mentioned under forward-looking statements above and the risks of our businesses described elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k. risks relating to economic, market and political conditions market fluctuations and general economic, market and political conditions may adversely affect our business and profitability. our businesses and our results of operations may be materially adversely affected by conditions in the global financial markets and by economic conditions generally. even under relatively favorable market conditions, our insurance, annuity and investment products, as well as our investment returns and our access to and cost of financing, are sensitive to fixed income, equity, real estate and other market fluctuations and general economic, market and political conditions. these fluctuations and conditions could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and liquidity, including in the following respects: the profitability of many of our insurance and annuity products depends in part on the value of the separate accounts supporting these products, which fluctuate substantially depending on the foregoing conditions. market conditions resulting in reductions in the value of assets we manage or lower transaction volume have an adverse effect on the revenues and profitability of our asset management business, which depends on fees related primarily to the value of assets under management or transaction volume, and could further decrease the value of our strategic investments. a change in market conditions, such as high inflation and high interest rates, could cause a change in consumer sentiment and behavior adversely affecting sales and persistency of our savings and protection products. conversely, low inflation and low interest rates could cause persistency of these products to vary from that anticipated and adversely affect profitability (as further described below). similarly, changing economic conditions and unfavorable public perception of financial institutions can influence customer behavior, including increasing claims or surrenders in certain product lines. 35 table of contents sales of our investment-based and asset management products and services may decline, and lapses and surrenders of certain insurance products and withdrawals of assets from investment products may increase if a market downturn, increased market volatility or other market conditions result in customers becoming dissatisfied with their investments or products. a market decline could further result in guaranteed minimum benefits contained in many of our variable annuity products being higher than current account values or our pricing assumptions would support, requiring us to materially increase reserves for such products, and may cause customers to retain contracts in force in order to benefit from the guarantees, thereby increasing their cost to us. any increased cost may or may not be more than offset by the favorable impact of greater persistency from prolonged fee streams. our valuation of the liabilities for the minimum benefits contained in many of our variable annuity products requires us to consider the market perception of our risk of non-performance, and a decrease in our own credit spreads resulting from ratings upgrades or other events or market conditions could cause the recorded value of these liabilities to increase, which in turn could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. market conditions determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection we purchase. accordingly, we may be forced to incur additional expenses for reinsurance or may not be able to obtain sufficient reinsurance on acceptable terms which could adversely affect the profitability of future business or our willingness to write future business. derivative instruments we hold to hedge and manage foreign exchange risk, interest rate and equity risks associated with our products and businesses, and other risks might not perform as intended or expected resulting in higher realized losses and unforeseen stresses on liquidity. market conditions can limit availability of hedging instruments, require us to post additional collateral, and also further increase the cost of executing product related hedges and such costs may not be recovered in the pricing of the underlying products being hedged. our derivative-based hedging strategies also rely on the performance of counterparties to such derivatives. these counterparties may fail to perform for various reasons resulting in losses on uncollateralized positions. positions that we are required to mark-to-market may cause, and have caused, volatility in reported results of operations due to market fluctuations. we have significant investment and derivative portfolios, including but not limited to corporate and asset-backed securities, foreign government securities (primarily those of the japanese government), equities and commercial real estate. economic conditions as well as adverse capital market conditions, including a lack of buyers in the marketplace, volatility, credit spread changes, benchmark interest rate changes, changes in foreign currency exchange rates and declines in value of underlying collateral will impact the credit quality, liquidity and value of our investments and derivatives, potentially resulting in higher capital charges and unrealized or realized losses. valuations may include assumptions or estimates that may have significant period to period changes which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition, and in certain cases under u.s. gaap such period to period changes in the value of investments are not recognized in our results of operations or consolidated statements of financial position. opportunities for investment of available funds at appropriate returns may be limited, including due to the current low interest rate environment, a diminished securitization market or other factors, with possible negative impacts on our overall results. limited opportunities for attractive investments may lead to holding cash for long periods of time and increased use of derivatives for duration management and other portfolio management purposes. the increased use of derivatives may increase the volatility of our u.s. gaap results and our statutory capital. regardless of market conditions, certain investments we hold, including private bonds, commercial mortgages and alternative asset classes (such as private equity, hedge funds and real estate) are relatively illiquid. if we needed to sell these investments, we may have difficulty doing so in a timely manner at a price that we could otherwise realize. certain features of our products and components of investment strategies depend on active and liquid markets, and, if market liquidity is strained or the capacity of the financial markets to absorb our transactions is inadequate, these products may not perform as intended. fluctuations in our operating results as well as realized gains and losses on our investment and derivative portfolios may impact the company tax profile and its ability to optimally utilize tax attributes. 36 table of contents our investments, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by adverse developments in the global economy, in the u.s. economy (including as a result of uncertainty about the federal reserve monetary policy or the ongoing debate over the federal debt ceiling), and in the japanese economy (including due to the effects of inflation or deflation, interest rate volatility, changes in the japan sovereign credit rating, and material changes in the value of the japanese yen relative to the u.s. dollar and, to a lesser extent, the australian dollar). global, u.s. or japanese economic activity and financial markets may in turn be negatively affected by adverse developments or conditions in specific geographical regions. interest rate fluctuations or prolonged periods of low interest rates could adversely affect our businesses and profitability and require us to increase reserves and statutory capital. our insurance and annuity products and certain of our investment products, and our investment returns, are sensitive to interest rate fluctuations, and changes in interest rates could adversely affect our investment returns and results of operations, including in the following respects: some of our products expose us to the risk that changes in interest rates will reduce the spread between the amounts that we are required to pay under the contracts and the rate of return we are able to earn on our general account investments supporting the contracts. when interest rates decline, we have to reinvest in lower yielding instruments, potentially reducing net investment income. since many of our policies and contracts have guaranteed minimum interest or crediting rates or limit the resetting of interest rates, the spreads could decrease and potentially become negative, or go further negative. when interest rates rise, we may not be able to replace the assets in our general account as quickly with the higher yielding assets needed to fund the higher crediting rates necessary to keep these products and contracts competitive. in addition, rising interest rates could cause a decline in the market value of fixed income assets the company manages which in turn could result in lower asset management fees earned. changes in interest rates can also result in potential losses in our investment activities in which we borrow funds and purchase investments to earn additional spread income on the borrowed funds. when interest rates rise, policy loans and surrenders and withdrawals of life insurance policies and annuity contracts may increase as policyholders seek to buy products with perceived higher returns, requiring us to sell investment assets potentially resulting in realized investment losses, or requiring us to accelerate the amortization of dac, dsi or voba (each defined below). in addition, increasing interest rates could cause capital strain due to lower solvency margin levels of our japanese insurance subsidiaries because the carrying value of bonds classified as available-for-sale would decline while the carrying value of liabilities would generally remain unchanged. also, an increase in interest rates accompanied by unexpected extensions of certain lower yielding investments could reduce our profitability. a decline in interest rates accompanied by unexpected prepayments of certain investments could require us to reinvest at lower rates and reduce our profitability. changes in interest rates coupled with greater than expected client withdrawals for certain products can result in increased costs associated with our guarantees. changes in the relationship between long-term and short-term interest rates could adversely affect the profitability of some of our products. changes in interest rates could increase our costs of financing. our mitigation efforts with respect to interest rate risk are primarily focused on maintaining an investment portfolio with diversified maturities that has a key rate duration profile that is approximately equal to the key rate duration profile of our estimated liability cash flow profile. however, this estimate of the liability cash flow profile is complex and could turn out to be inaccurate, especially during volatile times. in addition, there are practical and capital market limitations on our ability to accomplish this matching. due to these and other factors we may need to liquidate investments prior to maturity at a loss in order to satisfy liabilities or be forced to reinvest funds in a lower rate environment. although we take measures to manage the economic risks of investing in a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to effectively mitigate, and we may sometimes choose based on economic considerations and other factors not to fully mitigate, the interest rate risk of our assets relative to our liabilities. 37 table of contents for certain of our products, a delay between the time we make changes in interest rate and other assumptions used for product pricing and the time we are able to reflect these assumptions in products available for sale could negatively impact the long-term profitability of products sold during the intervening period. recent periods have been characterized by low interest rates. a prolonged period during which interest rates remain at levels lower than those anticipated in our pricing may result in greater costs associated with certain of our product features which guarantee death benefits or income streams for stated periods or for life; higher costs for derivative instruments used to hedge certain of our product risks; or shortfalls in investment income on assets supporting policy obligations, each of which may require us to record charges to increase reserves. in addition to compressing spreads and reducing net investment income, such an environment may cause policies to remain in force for longer periods than we anticipated in our pricing, potentially resulting in greater claims costs than we expected and resulting in lower overall returns on business in force. reflecting these impacts in recoverability and loss recognition testing under u.s. gaap may require us to accelerate the amortization of dac, dsi or voba as noted above, as well as to increase required reserves for future policyholder benefits. in addition, certain statutory capital and reserve requirements are based on formulas or models that consider interest rates, and a period of low interest rates may continue to increase the statutory capital we are required to hold as well as the amount of assets we must maintain to support statutory reserves. adverse capital market conditions could significantly affect our ability to meet liquidity needs, our access to capital and our cost of capital, including capital that may be required by our subsidiaries. under such conditions, we may seek additional debt or equity capital but may be unable to obtain such. adverse capital market conditions could affect the availability and cost of borrowed funds and could impact our ability to refinance existing borrowings, thereby ultimately impacting our profitability and ability to support or grow our businesses. we need liquidity to pay our operating expenses, interest and maturities on our debt and dividends on our capital stock. during times of market stress, our internal sources of liquidity may prove to be insufficient and some of our alternative sources of liquidity, such as commercial paper issuance, securities lending and repurchase arrangements and other forms of borrowings in the capital markets, may be unavailable to us. disruptions, uncertainty and volatility in the financial markets may force us to delay raising capital, issue shorter tenor securities than would be optimal, bear an unattractive cost of capital or be unable to raise capital at any price, which could decrease our profitability and significantly reduce our financial flexibility. we may seek additional debt or equity financing to satisfy our needs. however, the availability of additional financing depends on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the overall availability of credit to the financial services industry, and our credit ratings and credit capacity. we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. actions we might take to access financing may in turn cause rating agencies to reevaluate our ratings. further, any future equity offerings would dilute the ownership interest of existing shareholders. disruptions in the capital markets could adversely affect prudential financial and its subsidiaries ability to access sources of liquidity, as well as threaten to reduce our capital below a level that is consistent with our existing ratings objectives. therefore, we may need to take actions, which may include but are not limited to: (1) further access external sources of capital, including the debt or equity markets; (2) reduce or eliminate future shareholder dividends on our common stock; (3) undertake additional capital management activities, including reinsurance transactions; (4) limit or curtail sales of certain products and/or restructure existing products; (5) undertake further asset sales or internal asset transfers; (6) seek temporary or permanent changes to regulatory rules; and (7) maintain greater levels of cash balances or for longer periods thereby reducing investment returns. certain of these actions may require regulatory approval and/or agreement of counterparties which are outside of our control or have economic costs associated with them. 38 table of contents fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect our profitability, financial condition and cash flows, as well as increase the volatility of our results of operations under u.s. gaap. as a u.s.-based company with significant business operations outside the u.s., particularly in japan, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange risks that could reduce the u.s. dollar equivalent earnings and equity of these operations. we enter into derivative contracts in order to hedge the future income of certain of our international subsidiaries. further, our japanese subsidiaries hold u.s. dollar-denominated assets as a way for us to mitigate the effect of fluctuations in the yen exchange rate on our u.s. dollar-equivalent equity in these subsidiaries. we seek to mitigate volatility in the local solvency margins of our japanese subsidiaries due to holding these u.s. dollar-denominated investments by entering into inter-company currency derivatives. currency fluctuations could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows or financial condition as a result of these derivative positions or due to foreign income or equity investments that are not hedged. a significant strengthening of the yen could adversely impact the value of our hedges and u.s. dollar-denominated investments held in our japanese subsidiaries and could result in additional liquidity or capital needs for our international insurance operations. our japanese insurance operations offer products denominated in non-yen currencies, with the liabilities for these products supported by investments denominated in the corresponding currencies. while the impact from foreign currency exchange rate movements on these non-yen denominated assets and liabilities are economically matched, the accounting for changes in the value of these assets and liabilities due to changes in foreign currency exchange rate movements differs, resulting in volatility in our net income under u.s. gaap. for example, unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale investments, including those arising from foreign currency exchange rate movements, are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), or aoci, whereas the non-yen denominated liabilities are remeasured for foreign currency exchange rate movements, and the related changes in value are recorded in earnings within asset management fees and other income. we hold investments denominated in foreign currencies in the general account of our domestic insurance subsidiaries. we generally seek to hedge this foreign currency exposure but there is no assurance that we will fully hedge this exposure or that such hedges will be effective. the value and liquidity of our foreign currency investments could be adversely affected by local adverse market, economic and financial conditions. for example, our investments denominated in euro could be adversely affected by the recent unfavorable economic conditions in europe, including due to potential changes in the euro or to the structure or membership of the european monetary union. risks relating to estimates, assumptions and valuations our profitability may decline if mortality experience, longevity experience, morbidity experience, persistency experience, utilization experience or expenses differ significantly from our pricing expectations. we set prices for many of our insurance and annuity products based upon expected claims and payment patterns, using assumptions for mortality rates, or likelihood of death, longevity rates, or likelihood of survival (including the effect of improvement in life expectancy trends), and morbidity rates, or likelihood of sickness or disability, of our policyholders. in addition to the potential effect of natural or man-made disasters, significant changes in mortality, longevity, or morbidity could emerge gradually over time, due to changes in the natural environment, the health habits of the insured population, treatment patterns and technologies for disease or disability, the economic environment, or other factors. pricing of our insurance and deferred annuity products are also based in part upon expected persistency of these products, which is the probability that a policy or contract will remain in force from one period to the next. persistency within our individual annuities business may be significantly impacted by the value of guaranteed minimum benefits contained in many of our variable annuity products being higher than current account values in light of poor equity market performance or extended periods of low interest rates as well as other factors. persistency could be adversely affected generally by developments affecting client perception of us, including perceptions arising from adverse publicity. many of our products also provide our customers with wide flexibility with respect to the amount and timing of premium deposits and/or the amount and timing of withdrawals from the policy value. results may vary based on differences between actual and expected premium deposits and withdrawals for these products, especially if these product features are 39 table of contents relatively new to the marketplace. the pricing of certain of our variable annuity products that contain optional living benefit guarantees is also based on assumptions about utilization rates, or the percentage of contracts that will utilize the benefit during the contract duration, including the timing of the first lifetime income withdrawal. results may vary based on differences between actual and expected benefit utilization. the development of a secondary market for life insurance, including life settlements or viaticals and investor owned life insurance, and third-party investor strategies in the annuities business, could adversely affect the profitability of existing business and our pricing assumptions for new business. significant deviations in actual experience from our pricing assumptions could have an adverse effect on the profitability of our products. although some of our products permit us to increase premiums or adjust other charges and credits during the life of the policy or contract, the adjustments permitted under the terms of the policies or contracts may not be sufficient to maintain profitability or may cause the policies or contracts to lapse. for our long-term care insurance products, our assumptions for reserves for future policy benefits have factored in an estimate of the timing and amount of anticipated and yet-to-be-filed premium increases which will require state approval. our actual experience obtaining pricing increases could be materially different than what we have assumed, resulting in further policy liability increases which could be material. many of our products do not permit us to increase premiums or adjust other charges and credits or limit those adjustments during the life of the policy or contract. even if permitted under the policy or contract, we may not be able or willing to raise premiums or adjust other charges sufficiently, or at all, for regulatory or competitive reasons. if our reserves for future policyholder benefits and expenses are inadequate, we may be required to increase our reserves, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we establish reserves in accordance with us gaap for future policyholder benefits and expenses. while these reserves generally exceed our best estimate of the liability for future benefits and expenses, if we conclude based on updated assumptions that our reserves, together with future premiums, are insufficient to cover future policy benefits and expenses, including unamortized dac, dsi or voba, we would need to accelerate the amortization of these dac, dsi or voba balances and then increase our reserves and incur income statement charges, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. the determination of our best estimate of the liability is based on data and models that include many assumptions and projections which are inherently uncertain and involve the exercise of significant judgment, including the levels of and/or timing of receipt or payment of premiums, benefits, expenses, interest credits, investment results (including equity market returns), retirement, mortality, longevity, morbidity and persistency. we cannot determine with precision the ultimate amounts that we will pay for, or the timing of payment of, actual benefits and expenses or whether the assets supporting our policy liabilities, together with future premiums, will be sufficient for payment of benefits and expenses. if we conclude that our reserves, together with future premiums, are insufficient to cover future policy benefits and expenses, we may seek to increase premiums where we are able to do so. for certain of our products, market performance and interest rates (as well as the regulatory environment, as discussed further below) impact the level of statutory reserves and statutory capital we are required to hold, and may have an adverse effect on returns on capital associated with these products. we finance noneconomic reserves associated with our individual life business. marketplace capacity for reserve funding structures may be limited as a result of market conditions generally. our ability to efficiently manage capital and economic reserve levels may be impacted, thereby impacting profitability and returns on capital. we may be required to accelerate the amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs, or dac, deferred sales inducements, or dsi, or value of business acquired, or voba, or recognize impairment in the value of our goodwill or certain investments, or be required to establish a valuation allowance against deferred income tax assets, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. deferred policy acquisition costs, or dac, represent the costs that vary with and are directly related to the acquisition of new and renewal insurance and annuity contracts, and we amortize these costs over the expected lives of the contracts. deferred sales inducements, or dsi, represent amounts that are credited to a policyholder account balance as an inducement to purchase the contract, and we amortize these costs over the expected lives of the contracts. value of business acquired, or voba, represents the present value of future profits embedded in acquired insurance, annuity and investment-type contracts and is amortized over the expected lives of the 40 table of contents acquired contracts. management, on an ongoing basis, tests the dac, dsi and voba recorded on our balance sheet to determine if these amounts are recoverable under current assumptions. in addition, we regularly review the estimates and assumptions underlying dac, dsi and voba for those products for which we amortize dac, dsi and voba in proportion to gross profits or gross margins. given changes in facts and circumstances, these tests and reviews could lead to reductions in dac, dsi and/or voba that could have an adverse effect on the results of our operations and our financial condition. among other things, significant or sustained equity market declines as well as investment losses could result in acceleration of amortization of the dac, dsi and voba related to variable annuity and variable universal life contracts, resulting in a charge to income. as discussed earlier, the amortization of dac, dsi and voba are also sensitive to changes in interest rates. goodwill represents the excess of the amounts we paid to acquire subsidiaries and other businesses over the fair value of their net assets at the date of acquisition. goodwill is assessed annually for potential impairment, or more frequently if conditions warrant, by comparing the carrying value (equity attributed to a business to support its risk) of a business to its estimated fair value at that date. as of december 31, 2013, we had goodwill balances related to certain of our businesses. market declines or other events impacting the fair value of these businesses, or increases in the level of equity required to support these businesses, could result in goodwill impairments, resulting in a charge to income. we have operating equity method investments within our international insurance and asset management segments and corporate and other operations. declines in the fair value of these investments may require that we review the remaining carrying value of these investments for potential impairment, and such review could result in impairments and charges to income. deferred income tax represents the tax effect of the differences between the book and tax basis of assets and liabilities. deferred tax assets are assessed periodically by management to determine if they are realizable. factors in management determination include the performance of the business including the geographic and legal entity source of our income, the ability to generate capital gains from a variety of sources, and tax planning strategies. if based on available information, it is more likely than not that the deferred income tax asset will not be realized then a valuation allowance must be established with a corresponding charge to net income. such charges could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. changes in our discount rate, expected rate of return, life expectancy, health care cost and expected compensation increase assumptions for our pension and other postretirement benefit plans may result in increased expenses and reduce our profitability. we determine our pension and other postretirement benefit plan costs based on assumed discount rates, expected rates of return on plan assets, life expectancy of plan participants and expected increases in compensation levels and trends in health care costs. changes in these assumptions, including from the impact of a sustained low interest rate environment, may result in increased expenses and reduce our profitability. our valuation of fixed maturity, equity and trading securities may include methodologies, estimations and assumptions that are subject to differing interpretations and could result in changes to investment valuations that may materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. during periods of market disruption, it may be difficult to value certain of our investment securities, such as sub-prime mortgage-backed securities, if trading becomes less frequent and/or market data becomes less observable. there may be cases where certain assets in normally active markets with significant observable data become inactive with insufficient observable data due to the current financial environment or market conditions. as a result, valuations may include inputs and assumptions that are less observable or require greater estimation and judgment as well as valuation methods which are more complex. these values may not be ultimately realizable in a market transaction, and such values may change very rapidly as market conditions change and valuation assumptions are modified. decreases in value may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. the decision on whether to record an other-than-temporary impairment or write-down is determined in part by management assessment of the financial condition and prospects of a particular issuer, projections of future 41 table of contents cash flows and recoverability of the particular security. management conclusions on such assessments are highly judgmental and include assumptions and projections of future cash flows which may ultimately prove to be incorrect as assumptions, facts and circumstances change. credit and counterparty risks an inability to access our credit facilities could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we maintain committed unsecured revolving credit facilities. we rely on these credit facilities as a potential source of liquidity which could be critical in enabling us to meet our obligations as they come due, particularly during periods when alternative sources of liquidity are limited. our ability to borrow under these facilities is conditioned on our satisfaction of covenants and other requirements contained in the facilities, such as prudential financial maintenance of a prescribed minimum level of consolidated net worth calculated in accordance with the applicable credit agreement. our failure to satisfy these and other requirements contained in the credit facilities would restrict our access to the facilities when needed and, consequently, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. a downgrade or potential downgrade in our financial strength or credit ratings could limit our ability to market products, increase policy surrenders and withdrawals, require us to post collateral, increase our borrowing costs and/or hurt our relationships with creditors, distributors, reinsurers or trading counterparties and restrict our access to alternative sources of liquidity. a downgrade in our financial strength or credit ratings could potentially, among other things, limit our ability to market products, reduce our competitiveness, increase the number or value of policy surrenders and withdrawals, increase our borrowing costs and potentially make it more difficult to borrow funds, adversely affect the availability of financial guarantees, such as letters of credit, cause additional collateral requirements or other required payments under certain agreements, allow counterparties to terminate derivative agreements, and/or hurt our relationships with creditors, distributors, reinsurers or trading counterparties thereby potentially negatively affecting our profitability, liquidity and/or capital. in addition, we consider our own risk of non-performance in determining the fair value of certain of our liabilities, including insurance liabilities that are classified as embedded derivatives under u.s. gaap. therefore, changes in our credit or financial strength ratings may affect the fair value of our liabilities. a downgrade in the credit or financial strength ratings of prudential financial or its rated subsidiaries could result in additional collateral requirements or other required payments under certain agreements, including derivative agreements, which are eligible to be satisfied in cash or by posting securities held by the subsidiaries subject to the agreements. a ratings downgrade of three ratings levels from the ratings levels at december 31, 2013 (relating to financial strength ratings in certain cases and credit ratings in other cases) would result in estimated collateral posting requirements or payments under such agreements of approximately $68 million. in addition, a ratings downgrade by a.m. best to a- for our domestic life insurance companies would require prudential insurance to post a letter of credit in the amount of approximately $1.6 billion, based on the level of statutory reserves related to the variable annuity business acquired from allstate, that we estimate would result in annual cash outflows of approximately $9 million, or collateral posting in the form of cash or securities to be held in a trust. prudential insurance has been a member of the federal home loan bank of new york, or fhlbny, since june 2008. membership allows prudential insurance access to fhlbny financial services, including the ability to obtain collateralized loans and to issue collateralized funding agreements that can be used as an alternative source of liquidity. under fhlbny guidelines, if prudential insurance financial strength ratings decline below a/a2/a stable by s&amp;p, moody and fitch, respectively, and the fhlbny does not receive written assurances from the new jersey department of banking and insurance regarding prudential insurance solvency, new borrowings from the fhlbny would be limited to a term of 90 days or less. although prudential insurance ratings are currently at or above the required minimum levels, there can be no assurance that the ratings will remain at these levels in the future. 42 table of contents we cannot predict what additional actions rating agencies may take, or what actions we may take in response to the actions of rating agencies, which could adversely affect our business. as with other companies in the financial services industry, our ratings could be downgraded at any time and without advance notice by any rating agency. losses due to defaults by others, including issuers of investment securities or reinsurance, bond insurers and derivative instrument counterparties, downgrades in the ratings of securities we hold or of bond insurers, insolvencies of insurers in jurisdictions where we write business and other factors affecting our counterparties or the value of their securities could adversely affect the value of our investments, the realization of amounts contractually owed to us, result in assessments or additional statutory capital requirements or reduce our profitability or sources of liquidity. issuers and borrowers whose securities or loans we hold, customers, vendors, trading counterparties, counterparties under swaps and other derivative contracts, reinsurers, clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses and other financial intermediaries and guarantors, including bond insurers, may default on their obligations to us or be unable to perform service functions that are significant to our business due to bankruptcy, insolvency, lack of liquidity, adverse economic conditions, operational failure, fraud or other reasons. such defaults could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. a downgrade in the ratings of bond insurers could also result in declines in the value of our fixed maturity investments supported by guarantees from bond insurers. in addition, we use derivative instruments to hedge various risks, including certain guaranteed minimum benefits contained in many of our variable annuity products. we enter into a variety of derivative instruments, including options, forwards, interest rate, credit default and currency swaps with a number of counterparties. amounts that we expect to collect under current and future contracts, including, but not limited to reinsurance contracts, are subject to counterparty risk. our obligations under our products are not changed by our hedging activities and we are liable for our obligations even if our derivative counterparties, including reinsurers, do not pay us. such defaults could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. under state insurance guaranty association laws and similar laws in international jurisdictions, we are subject to assessments, based on the share of business we write in the relevant jurisdiction, for certain obligations of insolvent insurance companies to policyholders and claimants. we use reinsurance as part of our capital management with respect to our closed block business. ratings downgrades or financial difficulties of reinsurers may require us to utilize additional capital with respect to that business. certain product related risks guarantees within certain of our products that protect policyholders may decrease our earnings or increase the volatility of our results of operations or financial position under u.s. gaap if our hedging or risk management strategies prove ineffective or insufficient. certain of our products, particularly our variable annuity products, include guarantees of minimum surrender values or income streams for stated periods or for life, which may be in excess of account values. downturns in equity markets, increased equity volatility, or (as discussed above) reduced interest rates could result in an increase in the valuation of liabilities associated with such guarantees, resulting in increases in reserves and reductions in net income. we use a variety of hedging and risk management strategies, including product features, to mitigate these risks in part. these strategies may, however, not be fully effective. we may also choose not to fully hedge these risks. hedging instruments may not effectively offset the costs of guarantees or may otherwise be insufficient in relation to our obligations. hedging instruments also may not change in value correspondingly with associated liabilities due to equity market or interest rate conditions or other reasons. we sometimes choose to hedge these risks on a basis that does not correspond to their anticipated or actual impact upon our results of operations or financial position under u.s. gaap. changes from period to period in the valuation of these policy benefits, and in the amount of our obligations effectively hedged, will result in volatility 43 table of contents in our results of operations and financial position under u.s. gaap. estimates and assumptions we make in connection with hedging activities may fail to reflect or correspond to our actual long-term exposure in respect of our guarantees. further, the risk of increases in the costs of our guarantees not covered by our hedging and other capital and risk management strategies may become more significant due to changes in policyholder behavior driven by market conditions or other factors. the above factors, individually or collectively, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. we may not be able to mitigate the reserve strain associated with regulation xxx and guideline axxx, potentially resulting in a negative impact on our capital position or in a need to increase prices and/or reduce sales of term or universal life products. the states of domicile of our domestic insurance subsidiaries have in place a regulation entitled valuation of life insurance policies, commonly known as regulation xxx, and a supporting guideline entitled the application of the valuation of life insurance policies, commonly known as guideline axxx. the regulation and supporting guideline require insurers to establish statutory reserves for term and universal life insurance policies with long-term premium guarantees that are consistent with the statutory reserves required for other individual life insurance policies with similar guarantees. many market participants believe that this level of reserves is excessive, and we have implemented reinsurance and capital management actions to mitigate the impact of regulation xxx and guideline axxx on our term and universal life insurance business. as we continue to underwrite term and universal life business, we expect to have borrowing needs to finance statutory reserves required under regulation xxx and guideline axxx. however, if we are unsuccessful in obtaining additional financing as a result of market conditions or otherwise, this could require us to increase prices and or/reduce our sales of term or universal life products and/or have a negative impact on our capital position. we may experience difficulty in marketing and distributing products through our current and future distribution channels. although we distribute our products through a wide variety of distribution channels, we do maintain relationships with certain key distributors. for example, a significant amount of our sales in japan through banks is derived through a single major japanese bank and a significant portion of our sales in japan through life consultants is derived through a single association relationship. we periodically negotiate the terms of these relationships, and there can be no assurance that such terms will remain acceptable to us or such third parties. an interruption in certain key relationships could materially affect our ability to market our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. distributors may elect to reduce or terminate their distribution relationships with us, including for such reasons as adverse developments in our business, adverse rating agency actions or concerns about market-related risks. we are also at risk that key distribution partners may merge, change their business models in ways that affect how our products are sold, or terminate their distribution contracts with us, or that new distribution channels could emerge and adversely impact the effectiveness of our distribution efforts. an increase in bank and broker-dealer consolidation activity could increase competition for access to distributors, result in greater distribution expenses and impair our ability to market products through these channels. consolidation of distributors and/or other industry changes may also increase the likelihood that distributors will try to renegotiate the terms of any existing selling agreements to terms less favorable to us. when our products are distributed through unaffiliated firms, we may not be able to monitor or control the manner of their distribution despite our training and compliance programs. if our products are distributed by such firms in an inappropriate manner, or to customers for whom they are unsuitable, we may suffer reputational and other harm to our business. 44 table of contents regulatory and legal risks our businesses are heavily regulated and changes in regulation may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. our businesses are subject to comprehensive regulation and supervision. the purpose of this regulation is primarily to protect our customers and not necessarily our shareholders. many of the laws and regulations to which we are subject, including those to which our international businesses are subject, are regularly re-examined, and existing or future laws and regulations may become more restrictive or otherwise adversely affect our operations. the financial market dislocations we have experienced in the recent past have produced, and are expected to continue to produce, extensive changes in existing laws and regulations, and regulatory frameworks, applicable to our businesses in the u.s. and internationally. prudential financial, the holding company for all of our operations, is subject to supervision by the board of governors of the federal reserve system ( frb ) as a designated financial company pursuant to the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act ( dodd-frank ). as a designated financial company, prudential financial is expected to be subject to substantial additional regulation as discussed further herein. in addition, the financial stability board, consisting of representatives of national financial authorities of the g20 nations, identified prudential financial as a global systemically important insurer. as a result, u.s. financial regulators are expected to enhance their regulation of prudential financial to achieve a number of regulatory objectives. this additional regulation is likely to increase our operational, compliance and risk management costs, and could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition, including potentially increasing our capital levels and therefore reducing our return on capital. prudential financial is also subject to the rules and regulations of the sec and the nyse relating to public reporting and disclosure, securities trading, accounting and financial reporting, and corporate governance matters. the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and rules and regulations adopted in furtherance of that act substantially increased the requirements in these and other areas for public companies such as prudential financial. our internal controls over financial reporting may have gaps or other deficiencies and there is no assurance that significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in internal controls may not occur in the future. any such gaps or deficiencies may require significant resources to remediate and may also expose the company to litigation, regulatory fines or penalties or other losses. many insurance regulatory and other governmental or self-regulatory bodies have the authority to review our products and business practices and those of our agents and employees and to bring regulatory or other legal actions against us if, in their view, our practices, or those of our agents or employees, are improper. these actions can result in substantial fines, penalties or prohibitions or restrictions on our business activities and could adversely affect our business, reputation, results of operations or financial condition. congress from time to time enacts pension reform legislation that could decrease or increase the attractiveness of certain of our retirement products and services to retirement plan sponsors and administrators, or have an unfavorable or favorable effect on our ability to earn revenues from these products and services. over time, these changes could hinder our sales of defined benefit pension products and services and cause sponsors to discontinue existing plans for which we provide asset management, administrative, or other services. insurance regulators continue to develop a principles-based reserving approach for life insurance products. the timing and the effect of these changes are uncertain. most of our u.s. operating insurance companies are licensed in new york, but none are domiciled in new york. the ny dfs has notified us that it does not agree with our calculation of statutory reserves (including the applicable credit for reinsurance) for new york purposes in respect of certain variable annuity products. we are currently in discussions with the ny dfs regarding the proper level of statutory reserves (including the applicable credit for reinsurance) for these products. if we are ultimately required to establish material additional reserves on a new york statutory accounting basis or post material amounts of additional collateral with respect to such variable annuity or other products, our ability to deploy capital held within our u.s. domestic insurance subsidiaries for other purposes could be affected. recently, the naic, the ny dfs and other regulators have increased their focus on life insurers use of captive reinsurance companies. we use captive reinsurance subsidiaries in our domestic insurance operations to more effectively manage our reserves and capital on an economic basis and to enable the aggregation and transfer of risks. we cannot predict what, if any, changes may result from the regulatory reviews. if applicable 45 table of contents insurance laws are changed in a way that impairs the use of captive reinsurance companies, our ability to write certain products and efficiently manage their associated risks could be adversely affected and we may need to increase prices on certain products, modify certain products or find alternate financing sources, any of which could adversely affect our competitiveness, capital and financial position and results of operations. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources captive reinsurance companies for information on our use of captive reinsurance companies. the naic is reviewing life insurers use of separate accounts that are insulated (where assets of the separate account equal to the reserves and other contract liabilities with respect to the account may not be charged with liabilities arising out of any other business of the company) for products that are not variable, which might lead to a recommendation against the allowance of insulation for certain products. we cannot predict what, if any, changes may result from this review and possible recommendations. if applicable insurance laws are changed in a way that impairs the use of insulation for certain contracts, our ability to compete effectively in certain markets may be adversely affected. in addition, our financial results and liquidity and capital position may also be adversely affected. the failure of prudential insurance and our other domestic insurance subsidiaries to meet applicable risk based capital, or rbc, requirements or minimum statutory capital and surplus requirements could subject those subsidiaries to further examination or corrective action by state insurance regulators. the failure to maintain the rbc ratios of prudential insurance and our other domestic insurance subsidiaries at desired levels could also adversely impact our competitive position, including as a result of downgrades to our financial strength ratings. our international insurance companies are subject to conceptually similar measures of capital adequacy, including solvency margin ratios for our japanese insurance companies, and we face similar risks as those described for our domestic companies in the event that we are unable to maintain these measures at adequate levels. further, adverse financial performance in the closed block business in prudential insurance, including adverse investment performance, may adversely affect prudential insurance rbc ratios in the short term, although dividends to closed block policyholders may be subsequently adjusted to reflect such performance. currently, there are several proposals to amend state insurance holding company laws to increase the scope of the regulation of insurance holding companies (such as prudential financial). these proposals include imposing standards for insurer corporate governance, risk management, group-wide supervision of insurance holding companies, adjustments to risk-based capital calculations to account for group-wide risks, and additional regulatory and disclosure requirements for insurance holding companies. in addition, state insurance regulators have focused attention on u.s. insurance solvency regulation pursuant to the naic solvency modernization initiative , including regulatory review of companies risk management practices and analyses. this initiative has resulted in the recent adoption of the naic risk management and own risk and solvency assessment model act which, following enactment at the state level, will require larger insurers, beginning in 2015, to assess the adequacy of their and their group risk management and current and future solvency position. at this time, we cannot predict with any degree of certainty what additional capital requirements, compliance costs or other burdens these requirements may impose on prudential financial. compliance with applicable laws and regulations is time consuming and personnel-intensive, and changes in these laws and regulations may materially increase our direct and indirect compliance and other expenses of doing business, thus having a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. see business regulation for discussion of regulation of our businesses. the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act has and will subject us to substantial additional federal regulation and we cannot predict the effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. on september 19, 2013, the financial stability oversight council (the council ) made a final determination that prudential financial should be subject to stricter prudential regulatory standards and supervision by the frb as a designated financial company pursuant to dodd-frank, thereby subjecting us to substantial federal regulation, much of it pursuant to regulations not yet promulgated. dodd-frank directs existing and newly-created government agencies and bodies to promulgate regulations implementing the law, a process that is underway and expected to continue over the next few years. we cannot predict with any certainty the requirements of the regulations recently or not yet adopted or how dodd-frank and such regulations will 46 table of contents affect the financial markets generally, impact our business, credit or financial strength ratings, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition or advise or require us to hold or raise additional capital. key aspects of dodd-frank impact on us include: as a designated financial company, prudential financial is now subject to supervision and examination by the federal reserve bank of boston and to stricter prudential standards, which include or will include requirements and limitations (some of which are the subject of ongoing rule-making) relating to risk-based capital, leverage, liquidity and credit concentration, and a requirement to prepare and submit an annual plan for rapid and orderly dissolution in the event of severe financial distress. failure to meet defined measures of financial condition could result in substantial restrictions on our business and capital distributions. we are now also subject to stress tests to be promulgated by the frb which could cause us to alter our business practices or affect the perceptions of regulators, rating agencies, customers, counterparties or investors of our financial strength. we cannot predict the requirements of the regulations not yet adopted or how the frb will apply these prudential standards to us as a designated financial company. as a designated financial company, prudential financial must also seek pre-approval from the frb for acquisition of certain companies engaged in financial activities. as a designated financial company, we could also be subject to additional capital requirements for, and other restrictions on, proprietary trading and sponsorship of, and investment in, hedge, private equity and other covered funds. the council could recommend new or heightened standards and safeguards for activities or practices in which we and other financial services companies engage. we cannot predict whether any such recommendations will be made or their effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. dodd-frank creates a new framework for regulation of the over-the-counter ( otc ) derivatives markets which could impact various activities of prudential global funding ( pgf ), prudential financial and our insurance subsidiaries, which use derivatives for various purposes (including hedging interest rate, foreign currency and equity market exposures). final regulations adopted could substantially increase the cost of hedging and related operations, affect the profitability of our products or their attractiveness to our clients or cause us to alter our hedging strategy or implementation thereof or increase and/or change the composition of the risks we do not hedge. title ii of dodd-frank provides that a financial company such as prudential financial may be subject to a special orderly liquidation process outside the federal bankruptcy code, administered by the fdic as receiver, upon a determination that the company is in default or in danger of default and presents a systemic risk to u.s. financial stability. we cannot predict how creditors of prudential financial or its insurance and non-insurance subsidiaries, including the holders of prudential financial debt, will evaluate this potential or whether it will impact our financing or hedging costs. see business regulation for further discussion of the impact of dodd-frank on our businesses. foreign governmental actions could subject us to substantial additional regulation. in addition to the adoption of dodd-frank in the united states, the financial stability board (fsb), consisting of representatives of national financial authorities of the g20 nations, and the g20 have issued a series of proposals intended to produce significant changes in how financial companies, particularly companies that are members of large and complex financial groups, should be regulated. on july 18, 2013, the fsb identified prudential financial as a global systemically important insurer ( g-sii ). the framework policy measures for g-siis published by the international association of insurance supervisors (the iais ) include enhanced group-wide supervision, enhanced capital standards (including basic capital requirements applicable to all group activities and higher loss absorption capacity requirements for business deemed to be non-traditional/non-insurance), enhanced liquidity planning and management, and development of a risk reduction plan and recovery and resolution plans. policy measures applicable to g-siis would need to be implemented by legislation or regulation in each applicable jurisdiction. we cannot predict the outcome of our identification as a g-sii on the regulation of our businesses. 47 table of contents at the direction of the fsb, the iais is developing a model framework ( comframe ) for the supervision of internationally active insurance groups ( iaigs ) that contemplates group wide supervision across national boundaries, including uniform standards for insurer corporate governance and enterprise risk management, a framework for group capital adequacy assessment that accounts for group-wide risks, and the establishment of ongoing supervisory colleges. prudential financial qualifies as an iaig. in october 2013, the iais announced that it expects to develop a risk-based global insurance capital standard applicable to iaigs with implementation scheduled to begin in 2019. at this time, we cannot predict what additional capital requirements, compliance costs or other burdens these requirements would impose on us, if adopted. the lawmakers and regulatory authorities in a number of jurisdictions in which we do business have already begun introducing legislative and regulatory changes consistent with g20 and fsb recommendations, including proposals governing consolidated regulation of insurance holdings companies by the financial services agency (fsa) in japan and proposals governing executive compensation by the financial regulators in germany (bafin) and the united kingdom. in addition, the prudential regulation of insurance and reinsurance companies across the european economic area ( eea ) is due for significant change under the solvency ii directive, which was adopted on november 25, 2009 and could come into force as early as january 2016. this new regime will effect a full revision of the insurance industry solvency framework and prudential regime and may have significant implications for non-european insurance groups, like ourselves, that have established insurance undertakings within the eea. we cannot predict with any certainty the effect these initiatives may have on the financial markets or on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. adverse market, economic and financial conditions in europe have given rise to a perceived risk of defaults on the government securities of certain european countries and potentially by financial institutions with significant direct or indirect exposure to such government securities. further regulatory initiatives may develop in response to these conditions and related political and economic events such as possible changes in the euro or to the structure or membership of the european monetary union. changes in accounting requirements could negatively impact our reported results of operations and our reported financial position. accounting standards are continuously evolving and subject to change. for example, the fasb and international accounting standards board (iasb) have ongoing projects to revise accounting standards for insurance contracts. while the final resolution of changes to u.s. gaap and international financial reporting standards pursuant to these projects is unclear, changes to the manner in which we account for insurance products, or other changes in accounting standards, could have a material effect on our reported results of operations and financial condition. further, changes in accounting standards may impose special demands on issuers in areas such as corporate governance, internal controls and disclosure, and may result in substantial conversion costs to implement. changes in u.s. federal income tax law or in the income tax laws of other jurisdictions in which we operate could make some of our products less attractive to consumers and increase our tax costs. there is uncertainty regarding u.s. taxes both for individuals and corporations. discussions in washington continue concerning the need to reform the tax code, primarily by lowering the tax rates and broadening the base by reducing or eliminating certain tax expenditures. reducing or eliminating certain tax expenditures could make our products less attractive to customers. it is unclear whether or when congress may take up overall tax reform and what would be the impact of reform on the company and its products. however, even in the absence of overall tax reform, the large federal deficit, as well as the budget constraints faced by many states and localities, increases the likelihood that congress and state and local governments will raise revenue by enacting legislation increasing the taxes paid by individuals and corporations. this can be accomplished either by raising rates or otherwise changing the tax rules. 48 table of contents congress from time to time considers legislation that could make our products less attractive to consumers. current u.s. federal income tax laws generally permit certain holders to defer taxation on the build-up of value of annuities and life insurance products until payments are actually made to the policyholder or other beneficiary and to exclude from taxation the death benefit paid under a life insurance contract. while higher tax rates increase the benefits of tax deferral on the build-up of value of annuities and life insurance, making our products more attractive to consumers, legislation that reduces or eliminates deferral would have a potential negative effect on our products. congress, as well as state and local governments, also considers from time to time legislation that could increase the amount of corporate taxes we pay, thereby reducing earnings. for example, changes in the law relating to tax reserving methodologies for term life or universal life insurance policies with secondary guarantees or other products could result in higher current taxes. the obama administration revenue proposals include proposals which, if enacted, would affect the taxation of life insurance companies and certain life insurance products. in particular, the proposals would affect the treatment of corporate owned life insurance policies, or coli, by limiting the availability of certain interest deductions for companies that purchase those policies. the proposals would also change the method used to determine the amount of dividend income received by a life insurance company on assets held in separate accounts used to support products, including variable life insurance and variable annuity contracts that is eligible for the dividends received deduction, or drd. the drd reduces the amount of dividend income subject to tax and is a significant component of the difference between our actual tax expense and the expected tax amount determined using the federal statutory tax rate of 35%. if proposals of this type were enacted, the company sale of coli, variable annuities, and variable life insurance products could be adversely affected and the company actual tax expense could increase, thereby reducing earnings. the administration revenue proposals also include changes to the method by which u.s. multinational corporations claim foreign tax credits and the timing of the deduction for interest expense that is allocable to foreign-source income. if proposals of this type were enacted, the company actual tax expense could increase, thereby reducing earnings. the products we sell have different tax characteristics, in some cases generating tax deductions for the company. the level of profitability of certain of our products is significantly dependent on these characteristics and our ability to continue to generate taxable income, which is taken into consideration when pricing products and is a component of our capital management strategies. accordingly, changes in tax law, our ability to generate taxable income, or other factors impacting the availability or value of the tax characteristics generated by our products, could impact product pricing and returns or require us to reduce our sales of these products or implement other actions that could be disruptive to our businesses. in addition, the adoption of principles based approaches for statutory reserves may lead to significant changes to the way tax reserves are determined and thus reduce future tax deductions. our ability to meet obligations, pay shareholder dividends, and to engage in share repurchases may be adversely affected by limitations imposed on dividends and other distributions from our subsidiaries. prudential financial is the holding company for all our operations, and dividends, returns of capital and interest income from its subsidiaries are the principal source of funds available to prudential financial to pay shareholder dividends, to make share repurchases and to meet its other obligations. these sources of funds may be complemented by prudential financial access, if available, to the capital markets and bank facilities. as described under business regulation and note 15 to the consolidated financial statements, our domestic and foreign insurance and various other subsidiary companies, are subject to regulatory limitations on the payment of dividends and on other transfers of funds to prudential financial. in addition to these regulatory limitations, the terms of the ihc debt contain restrictions potentially limiting dividends by prudential insurance applicable to the financial services businesses in the event the closed block business is in financial distress and under other circumstances. finally, our management of our subsidiaries to have capitalization consistent with their ratings objectives itself may constrain their payment of dividends. these restrictions on prudential financial subsidiaries may limit or prevent such subsidiaries from making dividend payments to prudential financial in an amount sufficient to fund prudential financial obligations, shareholder dividends and share 49 table of contents repurchases. from time to time, the naic and various state and foreign insurance regulators have considered, and may in the future consider, proposals to further limit dividend payments that an insurance company may make without regulatory approval. legal and regulatory actions are inherent in our businesses and could adversely affect our results of operations or financial position or harm our businesses or reputation. we are, and in the future may be, subject to legal and regulatory actions in the ordinary course of our businesses, including in businesses that we have divested or placed in wind-down status. some of these proceedings have been brought on behalf of various alleged classes of complainants. in certain of these matters, the plaintiffs are seeking large and/or indeterminate amounts, including punitive or exemplary damages. legal liability or adverse publicity in respect of these or future legal or regulatory actions could have an adverse affect on us or cause us reputational harm, which in turn could harm our business prospects. material pending litigation and regulatory matters affecting us, and certain risks to our businesses presented by such matters, are discussed under commitments and guarantees, contingent liabilities and litigation and regulatory matters in the note 23 to consolidated financial statements. our litigation and regulatory matters are subject to many uncertainties, and given their complexity and scope, their outcome cannot be predicted. our reserves for litigation and regulatory matters may prove to be inadequate. it is possible that our results of operations or cash flow in a particular quarterly or annual period could be materially affected by an ultimate unfavorable resolution of pending litigation and regulatory matters depending, in part, upon the results of operations or cash flow for such period. in light of the unpredictability of the company litigation and regulatory matters, it is also possible that in certain cases an ultimate unfavorable resolution of one or more pending litigation or regulatory matters could have a material adverse effect on the company financial position. we may not be able to protect our intellectual property and may be subject to infringement claims. we rely on a combination of contractual rights with employees and third parties and on copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws to establish and protect our intellectual property. although we endeavor to protect our rights, third parties may infringe or misappropriate our intellectual property. we may have to litigate to enforce and protect our copyrights, trademarks, patents, trade secrets and know-how or to determine their scope, validity or enforceability. this would represent a diversion of resources that may be significant and our efforts may not prove successful. the inability to secure or protect our intellectual property assets could have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to compete. we may be subject to claims by third parties for (i) patent, trademark or copyright infringement, (ii) breach of copyright, trademark or license usage rights, or (iii) misappropriation of trade secrets. any such claims and any resulting litigation could result in significant expense and liability for damages. if we were found to have infringed or misappropriated a third-party patent or other intellectual property right, we could in some circumstances be enjoined from providing certain products or services to our customers or from utilizing and benefiting from certain methods, processes, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets or licenses. alternatively, we could be required to enter into costly licensing arrangements with third parties or implement a costly work around. any of these scenarios could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. operational risks interruption in telecommunication, information technology and other operational systems, or a failure to maintain the security, confidentiality or privacy of sensitive data residing on such systems, could harm our business. we depend heavily on our telecommunication, information technology and other operational systems and on the integrity and timeliness of data we use to run our businesses and service our customers. these systems may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events or circumstances wholly or partly beyond our control. further, we face the risk of operational and technology failures by others, including clearing agents, exchanges and other financial intermediaries and of vendors and parties to which we outsource the provision of 50 table of contents services or business operations. if these parties do not perform as anticipated, we may experience operational difficulties, increased costs and other adverse effects on our business. these risks are heightened by our offering of increasingly complex products, such as those that feature automatic asset transfer or re-allocation strategies, and by our employment of complex investment, trading and hedging programs. despite our implementation of a variety of security measures, our information technology and other systems could be subject to physical or electronic break-ins, unauthorized tampering or other security breaches, resulting in a failure to maintain the security, confidentiality or privacy of sensitive data, including personal information relating to customers, or in the misappropriation of our intellectual property or proprietary information. interruption in telecommunication, information technology and other operational systems, or a failure to maintain the security, confidentiality or privacy of sensitive data residing on such systems, whether due to actions by us or others, could delay or disrupt our ability to do business and service our customers, harm our reputation, subject us to substantial regulatory sanctions and other claims, lead to a loss of customers and revenues and otherwise adversely affect our business. we face risks arising from acquisitions, divestitures and restructurings, including client losses, surrenders and withdrawals, difficulties in integrating and realizing the projected results of acquisitions and contingent liabilities with respect to dispositions. we face a number of risks arising from acquisition transactions, including the risk that, following the acquisition or reorganization of a business, we could experience client losses, surrenders or withdrawals or other results materially different from those we anticipate, as well as difficulties in integrating and realizing the projected results of acquisitions and restructurings and managing the litigation and regulatory matters to which acquired entities are party. we have retained insurance or reinsurance obligations and other contingent liabilities in connection with our divestiture or winding down of various businesses, and our reserves for these obligations and liabilities may prove to be inadequate. these risks may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. other risks our risk management policies and procedures may prove to be ineffective and leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk, which could adversely affect our businesses or result in losses. we have developed an enterprise-wide risk management framework to mitigate risk and loss to the company, and we maintain policies, procedures and controls intended to identify, measure, monitor, report and analyze the risks to which the company is exposed. however, there are inherent limitations to risk management strategies because there may exist, or develop in the future, risks that we have not appropriately anticipated or identified. if our risk management framework proves ineffective, the company may suffer unexpected losses and could be materially adversely affected. as our businesses change and the markets in which we operate evolve, our risk management framework may not evolve at the same pace as those changes. as a result, there is a risk that new products or new business strategies may present risks that are not appropriately identified, monitored or managed. in times of market stress, unanticipated market movements or unanticipated claims experience resulting from greater than expected mortality, longevity or morbidity, the effectiveness of our risk management strategies may be limited, resulting in losses to the company. in addition, under difficult or less liquid market conditions, our risk management strategies may not be effective because other market participants may be using the same or similar strategies to manage risk under the same challenging market conditions. in such circumstances, it may be difficult or more expensive for the company to mitigate risk due to the activity of such other market participants. many of our risk management strategies or techniques are based upon historical customer and market behavior and all such strategies and techniques are based to some degree on management subjective judgment. we cannot provide assurance that our risk management framework, including the underlying assumptions or strategies, will be accurate and effective. 51 table of contents management of operational, legal and regulatory risks requires, among other things, policies, procedures and controls to record properly and verify a large number of transactions and events, and these policies, procedures and controls may not be fully effective. models are utilized by our businesses and corporate areas primarily to project future cash flows associated with pricing products, calculating reserves and valuing assets, as well as in evaluating risk and determining capital requirements, among other uses. these models may not operate properly and rely on assumptions and projections that are inherently uncertain. as our businesses continue to grow and evolve, the number and complexity of models we utilize expands, increasing our exposure to error in the design, implementation or use of models, including the associated input data and assumptions. past or future misconduct by our employees or employees of our vendors could result in violations of law by us, regulatory sanctions and/or serious reputational or financial harm and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. there can be no assurance that controls and procedures that we employ, which are designed to monitor associates business decisions and prevent us from taking excessive or inappropriate risks, will be effective. we review our compensation policies and practices as part of our overall risk management program, but it is possible that our compensation policies and practices could inadvertently incentivize excessive or inappropriate risk taking. if our associates take excessive or inappropriate risks, those risks could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. in our investments in which we hold a minority interest, or that are managed by third parties, we lack management and operational control over operations, which may prevent us from taking or causing to be taken actions to protect or increase the value of those investments. in those jurisdictions where we are constrained by law from owning a majority interest in jointly owned operations, our remedies in the event of a breach by a joint venture partner may be limited (e.g., we may have no ability to exercise a call option). the occurrence of natural or man-made disasters could adversely affect our operations, results of operations and financial condition. the occurrence of natural disasters, including hurricanes, floods, earthquakes, tsunamis, tornadoes, fires, explosions, pandemic disease and man-made disasters, including acts of terrorism and military actions, could adversely affect our operations, results of operations or financial condition, including in the following respects: catastrophic loss of life due to natural or man-made disasters could cause us to pay benefits at higher levels and/or materially earlier than anticipated and could lead to unexpected changes in persistency rates. a natural or man-made disaster could result in disruptions in our operations, losses in our investment portfolio or the failure of our counterparties to perform, or cause significant volatility in global financial markets. a terrorist attack affecting financial institutions in the united states or elsewhere could negatively impact the financial services industry in general and our business operations, investment portfolio and profitability in particular. pandemic disease could have a severe adverse effect on prudential financial business. the potential impact of such a pandemic on prudential financial results of operations and financial position is highly speculative, and would depend on numerous factors, including: the effectiveness of vaccines and the rate of contagion; the regions of the world most affected; the effectiveness of treatment for the infected population; the rates of mortality and morbidity among various segments of the insured population; the collectability of reinsurance; the possible macroeconomic effects of a pandemic on the company asset portfolio; the effect on lapses and surrenders of existing policies, as well as sales of new policies; and many other variables. the above risks are more pronounced in respect of geographic areas, including major metropolitan centers, where we have concentrations of customers, including under group and individual life insurance, concentrations of employees or significant operations, and in respect of countries and regions in which we operate subject to a greater potential threat of military action or conflict. 52 table of contents there can be no assurance that our business continuation plans and insurance coverages would be effective in mitigating any negative effects on our operations or profitability in the event of a terrorist attack or other disaster. climate change, and its regulation, may affect the prospects of companies and other entities whose securities we hold and other counterparties, including reinsurers, and affect the value of investments, including real estate investments we hold or manage for others. our current evaluation is that the near term effects of climate change and climate change regulation on the company are not material, but we cannot predict the long term impacts on us from climate change or its regulation. we have substantial international operations and our international operations face political, legal, operational and other risks that could adversely affect those operations or our profitability. a substantial portion of our revenues and income from continuing operations is derived from our operations outside the u.s., primarily japan and korea. these operations are subject to restrictions on transferring funds out of the countries in which they are located. some of our foreign insurance and investment management operations are, and are likely to continue to be, in emerging markets where this risk, as well as risks of discriminatory regulation, labor issues in connection with workers associations and trade unions, price controls, currency exchange controls, nationalization or expropriation of assets, are heightened. if our business model is not successful in a particular country, we may lose all or most of our investment in building and training our sales force in that country. many of our insurance products sold in international markets, including japan, provide for the buildup of cash values for the policyholder at contractually fixed guaranteed interest rates. actual returns on the underlying investments may not necessarily support the guaranteed interest rates and there may be times when the spread between the actual investment returns and these guaranteed rates of return to the policyholder is negative. this negative spread may not be offset by the mortality, morbidity and expense charges we earn on the products. our international businesses are subject to the tax laws and regulations of the countries in which they are organized and in which they operate. foreign governments from time to time consider legislation that could increase the amount of taxes that we pay or impact the sales of our products. such changes could result in a decrease in sales of our products or in our profits. our international operations are regulated in the jurisdictions in which they are located or operate. these regulations may apply heightened scrutiny to non-domestic companies, which can reduce our flexibility as to intercompany transactions, investments and other aspects of business operations and adversely affect our liquidity, profitability, and regulatory capital. intense competition, including the impact of government sponsored programs and other actions on us and our competitors, could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our market share or profitability. in each of our businesses we face intense competition from domestic and foreign insurance companies, asset managers and diversified financial institutions, both for the ultimate customers for our products and, in many businesses, for distribution through non-affiliated distribution channels. we compete based on a number of factors including brand recognition, reputation, quality of service, quality of investment advice, investment performance of our products, product features, scope of distribution and distribution arrangements, price, perceived financial strength and credit and financial strength ratings. a decline in our competitive position as to one or more of these factors could adversely affect our profitability and assets under management. many of our competitors are large and well-established and some have greater market share or breadth of distribution, offer a broader range of products, services or features, assume a greater level of risk, have lower profitability expectations or have higher financial strength or credit ratings than we do. the proliferation and growth of non-affiliated distribution channels puts pressure on our captive sales channels to increase their productivity and reduce their costs in order to remain competitive, and we run the risk that the marketplace will make a more significant or rapid shift to non-affiliated or direct distribution alternatives than we anticipate or are able to achieve ourselves, potentially adversely affecting our market share and results of operations. in certain 53 table of contents international markets in which we operate, we face competition from government owned entities that benefit from pricing or other competitive advantages. the competitive landscape in which we operate may be further affected by government sponsored programs, as well as by longer term fiscal policies, adopted in the u.s. and outside of the u.s. in response to dislocations in financial markets and the economy. competitors that receive governmental financing or other assistance or subsidies, including governmental guarantees of their obligations, or that are not subject to the same regulatory constraints, may have or obtain pricing or other competitive advantages. changes in laws and regulations in response to adverse market and economic conditions may result in us being classified differently than competitors for purposes of capital and other requirements, potentially affecting our ability to compete and the competitive landscape generally. competition for personnel in all of our businesses is intense, including for executive officers and management personnel, prudential agents, life planners, life consultants and other sales personnel, and our investment managers. we devote significant efforts to talent management and development and are subject to the risk that executive, management and other personnel will be hired or recruited by competitors. competition for desirable non-affiliated distribution channels is also intense. the loss of key personnel or non-affiliated distribution channels could have an adverse effect on our business and profitability. regulatory requirements could delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that shareholders might consider in their best interests. various states, in which our insurance companies are domiciled, including new jersey, must approve any direct or indirect change of control of insurance companies organized in those states. the u.s. federal securities laws could also require reapproval by customers of our investment advisory contracts to manage mutual funds, including mutual funds included in annuity products, upon a change in control. in addition, the new jersey business corporation act prohibits certain business combinations with interested shareholders. these regulatory and other restrictions may delay a potential merger or sale of prudential financial, even if the board of directors decides that it is in the best interests of shareholders to merge or be sold. holders of our common stock are subject to risks due to the issuance of our class b stock, a second class of common stock. the businesses of prudential financial are separated into the financial services businesses and the closed block business, and our common stock reflects the performance of the financial services businesses and the class b stock reflects the performance of the closed block business. there are a number of risks to holders of our common stock by virtue of this dual common stock structure, including: even though we allocate all our consolidated assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses and cash flow between the financial services businesses and the closed block business for financial statement purposes, there is no legal separation between the financial services businesses and the closed block business. holders of common stock have no interest in a separate legal entity representing the financial services businesses; holders of the class b stock have no interest in a separate legal entity representing the closed block business; and therefore holders of each class of common stock are subject to all of the risks associated with an investment in the company. the financial results of the closed block business, including debt service on the ihc debt, will affect prudential financial consolidated results of operations, financial position and borrowing costs. assets of phllc allocated to the financial services businesses, including assets in the dsca established for the security of the holders of the ihc debt and reinvested earnings thereon, could be used to satisfy the ihc debt. to the extent cash flows associated with the closed block business within the dsca are not adequate to service payments with respect to the ihc debt, a loan from the financial services businesses to the closed block business would be established. this could affect the results of operations, financial position or borrowing costs of the financial services businesses. the repayment to the financial services businesses of any inter-business loan created upon the use of the dsca to service the ihc debt will be subordinate to the repayment of the ihc debt. for a more detailed discussion of the ihc debt, see business demutualization and separation of the businesses separation of the businesses . the market value of our common stock may not reflect solely the performance of the financial services businesses. 54 table of contents we cannot pay cash dividends on our common stock for any period if we choose not to pay dividends on the class b stock in an aggregate amount at least equal to the lesser of the cb distributable cash flow or the target dividend amount on the class b stock for that period. see market for registrant common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities for the definition of these terms. any net losses of the closed block business, and any dividends or distributions on, or repurchases of the class b stock, would reduce the assets of prudential financial legally available for dividends on the common stock. holders of common stock and class b stock vote together as a single class of common stock under new jersey law, except as otherwise required by law and except that the holders of the class b stock have class voting or consent rights with respect to specified matters directly affecting the class b stock. shares of class b stock are entitled to a higher proportionate amount upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of prudential financial than shares of common stock. we may exchange the class b stock for shares of common stock at any time and holders of class b stock may convert their shares into common stock beginning in 2016. the class b stock also is mandatorily exchangeable in the event of a sale of all or substantially all of the closed block business or a change of control of prudential financial, as discussed under market for registrant common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities. any exchange of class b stock into common stock could occur at a time when either or both of the common stock and class b stock may be considered to be overvalued or undervalued. any conversion may have a dilutive effect on holders of common stock. our board of directors has adopted certain policies regarding inter-business transfers and accounting and tax matters, including the allocation of earnings, with respect to the financial services businesses and closed block business. although the board of directors may change any of these policies, any such decision is subject to the board of directors general fiduciary duties, and we have agreed with investors in the class b stock and the insurer of the ihc debt that, in most cases, the board of directors may not change these policies without their consent. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 196 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. insurance risk we define insurance risk as the risk of loss due to deviations in experience compared to our assumptions. our exposure is primarily comprised of: mortality risk, or the risk that death claims are greater than expected, primarily within our individual life, group insurance and international insurance segments; longevity risk, or the risk that policyholders survive longer than expected, primarily within our individual annuities, retirement and international insurance segments; morbidity risk, or the risk that health claims from sickness or disability are greater than expected, primarily within our group insurance and international insurance segments as well as from long term care policies within divested businesses; and policyholder behavior risk, or the risk that our customers persistency experience or utilization experience differs from our expectations. underwriting insurance risk is a fundamental part of our business. we believe our scale provides for the benefits of diversification, both within an insurance risk type (potentially enhancing predictability of experience) and across insurance risk types (for example, to some extent, mortality risk provides a natural hedge against longevity risk). insurance risk mitigation begins with product design, as well as underwriting and pricing standards at the business unit level with corporate oversight. in some cases, the availability and/or credibility of policyholder behavior experience may be limited, which we strive to reflect in the product design and pricing of the product. we provide corporate oversight of the material insurance risk assumptions utilized in pricing and setting reserves. operational risk operational risk is defined as the risk of direct or indirect loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes and systems, employee actions, or as the result of external events. operational risks are broad in scope and evident in each business unit and corporate function. we are exposed to operational risk in many ways, including, but not limited to: legal and regulatory compliance improper sales practices fraud (internal and external) reputational risk employee risk 194 table of contents technology risk, including system failures and processing errors financial reporting errors extreme events, such as loss of people and/or infrastructure caused by natural disasters, terrorism, disease, etc. information risk vendor risk each of our businesses and corporate functions is expected to manage its operational risks in compliance with enterprise standards. our framework for identifying, evaluating, monitoring and managing operational risk includes: risk management committees; key risk indicators; risk and control assessments; loss event data collection and analysis; scenario analysis; and resolution of control issues. we also have enterprise policies and standards, including: legal and regulatory/compliance policies, such as those relating to sales practices and supervision, fraud prevention, safeguarding of personal information, protection and use of material non-public information, personal conflicts of interest and outside business activities, anti-money laundering, and gifts and entertainment; human resources policies, such as those relating to hiring, training and terminating the employment of our associates and succession planning; and information technology policies, including those on systems development and information security. we also maintain policies and standards to support the effective management of operational risk, including those concerning new product development, business continuation and disaster recovery, enterprise crisis management, and vendor governance. our internal audit department independently audits key operational controls on a periodic basis to assess the effectiveness of our framework. we are also exposed to emerging risks, that is, those conditions, situations or trends that may significantly impact us in the future. by nature, these risks involve a high degree of uncertainty. erm, together with our businesses, monitors and evaluates emerging risks on a regular basis. model risk models are utilized by our businesses and corporate functions primarily in projecting future cash flows associated with pricing products, calculating reserves and valuing assets, as well as in evaluating risk and determining capital requirements, among other uses. as our businesses continue to grow and evolve, the number and complexity of models we utilize expands, increasing our exposure to error in the design, implementation or use of models, including the associated input data and assumptions. we are mitigating this risk by implementing our model risk policy, which outlines the governance and control requirements over the implementation and use of models, and through the activities of our model risk oversight committee which provides oversight and guidance on issues relating to model risk and the management of that risk. for further information on the risks to which the company is exposed, see item. 1a risk factors. 195 table of contents item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk market risk is defined as the risk of loss resulting from change in the value of assets, liabilities or derivative instruments as a result of absolute or relative changes in factors affecting financial markets, such as changes in interest rates, equity prices, foreign currency exchange rates and credit spreads. to varying degrees, the investment activities supporting all of our products and services generate exposure to market risk. the primary source of our exposure to market risk is other than trading activities conducted primarily in our insurance and annuity operations. the market risk incurred and our strategies for managing this risk vary by product. the market risk associated with trading activities is immaterial. for additional information regarding the potential impacts of interest rate and other market fluctuations, as well as general economic and market conditions on our businesses and profitability, see item 1a. risk factors above. for additional information regarding the overall management of our general account investments and our asset mix strategies, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations general account investments management of investments above. for additional information regarding our liquidity and capital resources, which may be impacted by changing market risks, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources above. market risk management risk management includes the identification and measurement of various forms of risk, the establishment of risk thresholds and the creation of processes intended to maintain risks within these thresholds while optimizing returns on the underlying assets or liabilities. risk range limits are established for each type of market risk, and are approved by the investment committee of the board of directors and subject to ongoing review. our risk management process utilizes a variety of tools and techniques, including: measures of price sensitivity to market changes (e.g., interest rates, equity index prices, foreign exchange, credit spreads) value-at-risk, or var measures asset/liability management analytics stress scenario testing hedging programs risk management governance, including policies, limits and a market risk oversight committee. for additional information regarding our overall risk management framework and governance structure, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations risk management above. market risk mitigation risk mitigation takes three primary forms: 1. managing assets to liability-based limits on net exposure. for example, investment policies identify target durations for assets based on liability characteristics and asset portfolios are managed to ranges around them. this mitigates potential unanticipated economic losses from interest rate movements. 2. hedging non-strategic exposures. for example, our investment policies generally require hedging currency risk for all cash flows not offset by similarly denominated liabilities. 3. management of portfolio concentration risk. for example, ongoing monitoring and management at the enterprise level of key rate, currency and other concentration risks support diversification efforts to mitigate exposure to individual markets and sources of liquidity strain. 196 table of contents market risk related to interest rates assets that subject us to interest rate risk primarily include fixed maturity securities, commercial mortgage and other loans and policy loans. liabilities that subject us to interest rate risk primarily include policyholder account balances relating to interest-sensitive life insurance, annuity and other investment-type contracts, as well as through outstanding short-term and long-term debt. changes in interest rates create risk that the resulting changes in asset values will differ from the changes in the value of the liabilities relating to the underlying or hedged products. derivatives that subject us to interest rate risk primarily include interest rate swaps, forwards, futures and options. additionally, changes in interest rates may impact other items including, but not limited to, the following: net investment spread between the amounts that we are required to pay and the rate of return we are able to earn on investments for certain products supported by general account investments asset-based fees earned on assets under management or contractholder account values estimated total gross profits and the amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs net exposure to the guarantees provided under certain products capital levels of our regulated entities we use duration and convexity analyses to measure price sensitivity to interest rate changes. duration measures the relative sensitivity of the fair value of a financial instrument to changes in interest rates. convexity measures the rate of change of duration with respect to changes in interest rates. we use asset/liability management and derivative strategies to manage our interest rate exposure by legal entity by matching the relative sensitivity of asset and liability values to interest rate changes, or controlling duration mismatch of assets and liabilities. we have duration mismatch constraints tailored to the rate sensitivity of products in each entity. in certain markets, primarily outside the u.s. and japan, capital market limitations that hinder our ability to acquire assets that approximate the duration of some of our liabilities are considered in setting the limits. as of december 31, 2013 and 2012, the difference between the duration of assets and the target duration of liabilities in our duration-managed portfolios was within our limits. we consider risk-based capital and tax implications as well as current market conditions in our asset/liability management strategies. 197 table of contents we assess the impact of interest rate movements on the value of our financial assets, financial liabilities and derivatives using hypothetical test scenarios that assume either upward or downward 100 basis point parallel shifts in the yield curve from prevailing interest rates, reflecting changes in either credit spreads or the risk-free rate. the following table sets forth the net estimated potential loss in fair value on these financial instruments from a hypothetical 100 basis point upward shift as of december 31, 2013 and 2012. this table is presented on a gross basis and excludes offsetting impacts to insurance liabilities that are not considered financial liabilities under u.s gaap. this scenario results in the greatest net exposure to interest rate risk of the hypothetical scenarios tested at those dates. while the test scenario is for illustrative purposes only and does not reflect our expectations regarding future interest rates or the performance of fixed-income markets, it is a near-term, reasonably possible hypothetical change that illustrates the potential impact of such events. these test scenarios do not measure the changes in value that could result from non-parallel shifts in the yield curve which we would expect to produce different changes in discount rates for different maturities. as a result, the actual loss in fair value from a 100 basis point change in interest rates could be different from that indicated by these calculations. the estimated changes in fair values do not include separate account assets. as of december 31, 2013 as of december 31, 2012 notional fair value hypothetical change in fair value notional fair value hypothetical change in fair value (in millions) financial assets with interest rate risk: fixed maturities(1) $ 314,015 $ (25,834 ) $ 326,489 $ (27,238 ) commercial mortgage and other loans 42,805 (1,850 ) 39,716 (1,658 ) policy loans(2) 11,766 0 14,592 (902 ) derivatives: swaps $ 150,079 (2,228 ) (3,710 ) $ 132,661 3,766 (4,818 ) futures 15,125 5 14 13,267 (166 ) 21 options 85,249 477 344 68,099 1,330 (188 ) forwards 15,306 206 (61 ) 15,937 (60 ) (31 ) synthetic gics(3) 60,758 8 0 64,359 6 (2 ) variable annuity and other living benefit feature embedded derivatives(4) (441 ) 3,097 (3,348 ) 3,295 financial liabilities with interest rate risk(5): short-term and long-term debt (28,286 ) 2,392 (30,003 ) 2,473 limited recourse notes issued by consolidated vies(6) (39 ) 0 (224 ) 0 investment contracts (96,600 ) 3,410 (104,200 ) 3,730 net estimated potential loss $ (22,198 ) $ (25,318 ) (1) includes fixed maturities classified as trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities and other fixed maturities classified as trading securities under u.s. gaap, but are held for other than trading activities in our segments that offer insurance, retirement and annuities products. (2) in the fourth quarter of 2013, we implemented a change in valuation methodology regarding policy loans. for additional information, see note 20 to the consolidated financial statements. (3) prior period notional amount is presented on a basis consistent with the current period presentation. (4) reflects only the gross change on the embedded derivatives, and excludes any offsetting impact of derivative instruments purchased to hedge such changes. (5) excludes approximately $248 billion and $249 billion as of december 31, 2013 and december 31, 2012, respectively, of insurance reserve and deposit liabilities which are not considered financial liabilities. we believe that the interest rate sensitivities of these insurance liabilities would serve as an offset to the net interest rate risk of the financial assets and liabilities, including investment contracts. (6) see note 5 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding consolidated variable interest entities (vies). our net estimated potential loss in fair value as of december 31, 2013 decreased from december 31, 2012, primarily reflecting a decrease in our fixed maturity securities portfolio in 2013, driven by the translation impact of the yen weakening against the u.s. dollar and an increase in u.s. interest rates, as well as a decrease in the fair value of derivatives also driven by an increase in u.s. interest rates. for a discussion of changes in derivatives, see derivatives below. under u.s. gaap, the fair value of the embedded derivatives for certain variable annuity and other living benefit features, reflected in the table above, includes the impact of the market perception of our own non-performance risk ( npr ). the additional credit spread over libor rates incorporated into the discount rate as of december 31, 2013, to reflect npr in the valuation of these embedded derivatives, ranged from 8 to 109 basis points. 198 table of contents the following table provides a demonstration of the sensitivity of these embedded derivatives to our npr credit spread by quantifying the adjustments that would be required assuming both a 50 basis point parallel increase and decrease in our npr credit spreads. while the information below is for illustrative purposes only and does not reflect our expectations regarding our credit spreads, it is a near-term, reasonably possible change that illustrates the potential impact of such a change. this information considers only the direct effect of changes in our credit spread on operating results due to the change in these embedded derivatives, and not changes in any other assumptions such as persistency, utilization and mortality, or the effect of these changes on dac or other balances. december 31, 2013 december 31, 2012 (increase) /decrease in embedded derivative liability (increase) /decrease in embedded derivative liability (in millions) increase in credit spread by 50 basis points $ 548 $ 933 decrease in credit spread by 50 basis points $ (769 ) $ (1,177 ) for an additional discussion of our variable annuity optional living benefit guarantees accounted for as embedded derivatives and related derivatives used to hedge the changes in fair value of these embedded derivatives, see market risk related to certain variable annuity products below. for additional information about the key estimates and assumptions used in our determination of fair value, see note 20 to the consolidated financial statements below. for information on the impacts of a sustained low interest rate environment, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations executive summary industry trends impact of a low interest rate environment above. market risk related to equity prices we have exposure to equity price risk through our investments in equity securities, equity-based derivatives and certain variable annuity and other living benefit feature embedded derivatives. our equity-based derivatives primarily hedge the equity price risk embedded in the living benefit feature embedded derivatives, and are also part of our capital hedging program. changes in equity prices create risk that the resulting changes in asset values will differ from the changes in the value of the liabilities relating to the underlying or hedged products. additionally, changes in equity prices may impact other items including, but not limited to, the following: asset-based fees earned on assets under management or contractholder account value estimated total gross profits and the amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs net exposure to the guarantees provided under certain products we manage investment equity price risk against benchmarks in respective markets. we benchmark our return on equity holdings against a blend of market indices, mainly the s&amp;p 500 and russell 2000 for u.s. equities. we benchmark foreign equities against the tokyo price index, or topix, and the msci eafe, a market index of european, australian, and far eastern equities. we target price sensitivities that approximate those of the benchmark indices. we estimate our investment equity price risk from a hypothetical 10% decline in equity benchmark market levels and measure this risk in terms of the decline in fair market value of equity securities we hold. the following table sets forth the net estimated potential loss in fair value from such a decline as of december 31, 2013 and 2012. while these scenarios are for illustrative purposes only and do not reflect our expectations regarding future performance of equity markets or of our equity portfolio, they represent near term reasonably possible hypothetical changes that illustrate the potential impact of such events. these scenarios consider only the direct impact on fair value of declines in equity benchmark market levels and not changes in asset-based fees recognized as revenue, changes in our estimates of total gross profits used as a basis for amortizing deferred policy acquisition and other costs, or changes in any other assumptions such as market volatility or mortality, utilization or persistency rates in our variable annuity contracts that could also impact the fair value of our living benefit features. in addition, these scenarios do not reflect the impact of basis risk, such as potential differences in the performance of the investment funds underlying the variable annuity products relative to the market indices we use as a basis for developing our hedging strategy. the impact of basis risk could result in larger 199 table of contents differences between the change in fair value of the equity-based derivatives and the related living benefit features in comparison to the scenarios above. in calculating these amounts, we exclude separate account equity securities. as of december 31, 2013 as of december 31, 2012 notional fair value hypothetical change in fair value notional fair value hypothetical change in fair value (in millions) equity securities(1) $ 12,287 $ (1,229 ) $ 10,754 $ (1,075 ) equity-based derivatives(2) $ 72,953 (78 ) 1,170 $ 55,054 248 1,504 variable annuity and other living benefit feature embedded derivatives(2)(3) (441 ) (852 ) (3,348 ) (1,052 ) net estimated potential loss $ (911 ) $ (623 ) (1) includes equity securities classified as trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities and other equity securities classified as trading securities under u.s. gaap, but are held for other than trading activities in our segments that offer insurance, retirement and annuities products. (2) the notional and fair value of equity-based derivatives and the fair value of variable annuity and other living benefit feature embedded derivatives are also reflected in amounts under market risk related to interest rates above, and are not cumulative. (3) reflects only the gross change on the embedded derivatives, and excludes any offsetting impact of derivative instruments purchased to hedge such changes. net estimated potential loss increased by $288 million. the estimated equity price risk associated with the living benefit features accounted for as embedded derivatives decreased due to a decline in the value of the liability; however, this was more than offset by a corresponding change in equity-based derivatives used to hedge these features. for a discussion of changes in derivatives, see derivatives below. for an additional discussion of our variable annuity optional living benefit guarantees accounted for as embedded derivatives and related derivatives used to hedge the changes in fair value of these embedded derivatives, see market risk related to certain variable annuity products below. for additional information regarding our capital hedging program, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources below. market risk related to foreign currency exchange rates as a u.s.-based company with significant business operations outside the u.s., particularly in japan, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk related to these operations, as well as to our general account investment portfolio and other proprietary-investment portfolios. for our international insurance operations, changes in foreign currency exchange rates create risk that we may experience volatility in the u.s. dollar-equivalent earnings and equity of these operations. we actively manage this risk through various hedging strategies, including the use of foreign currency hedges and through holding u.s. dollar-denominated securities in the investment portfolios of certain of these operations. separately, our japanese insurance operations offer a variety of non-yen denominated products which are supported by investments in corresponding currencies. while these non-yen denominated assets are economically matched, the accounting differs for changes in the value of these assets and liabilities due to moves in foreign currency exchange rates, resulting in volatility in reported u.s. gaap earnings. for further information, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations international insurance division impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements on earnings u.s. gaap earnings impact of products denominated in non-local currencies above. for our domestic general account investment portfolios supporting our u.s. insurance operations and other proprietary-investment portfolios, our foreign currency exchange rate risk arises primarily from investments that are denominated in foreign currencies. we manage this risk by hedging substantially all domestic foreign currency-denominated fixed-income investments into u.s. dollars. we generally do not hedge all of the foreign currency risk of our investments in equity securities of unaffiliated foreign entities. 200 table of contents we manage our foreign currency exchange rate risks within specified limits, and by using var-based analysis. this statistical technique estimates, at a specified confidence level, the potential pre-tax loss in portfolio market value that could occur over an assumed time horizon due to adverse market movements. for the unhedged portions of our equity investment in international subsidiaries and the foreign currency-denominated investments held in our domestic general account portfolio, we estimate the hypothetical decline in var, as well as the average var, each measured at a 95% confidence level and using a one-month time horizon. these calculations use historical price volatilities and correlation data at a 95% confidence level. the following table sets forth these measures as of the periods indicated. as of december 31, 2013 as of december 31, 2012 fair value estimated var average var fair value estimated var average var (in millions) unhedged portion of equity investment in international subsidiaries and foreign currency-denominated investments in domestic general account portfolio(1) $ 5,202 $ (99 ) $ (115 ) $ 4,373 $ (79 ) $ (101 ) (1) excludes assets and liabilities subject to the impact of foreign exchange rate movements that are hedged with externally-purchased derivatives or are economically matched, as discussed above. the increase in var as of december 31, 2013 was driven by a higher level of foreign exchange rate volatility. for derivatives used to hedge the anticipated level of u.s. dollar-equivalent earnings of our international operations, the estimated hypothetical decline in var, measured at a 95% confidence level and using a one-month time horizon, was $68 million and $81 million as of december 31, 2013 and december 31, 2012, respectively. for additional information, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations general account investments portfolio composition and management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations results of operations for financial services businesses by segment international insurance division above. although var models are a recognized tool for risk management, they have inherent limitations, including reliance on historical data that may not be indicative of future market conditions or trading patterns. accordingly, var models should not be viewed as a predictor of future results. we may incur losses that could be materially in excess of the amounts indicated by the models on a particular trading day or over a period of time, and there have been instances when results have fallen outside the values generated by our var models. a var model does not estimate the greatest possible loss. the results of these models and analysis thereof are subject to the judgment of our risk management personnel. derivatives we use derivative financial instruments primarily to reduce market risk from changes in interest rates, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates, including their use to alter interest rate or foreign currency exposures arising from mismatches between assets and liabilities. our derivatives primarily include swaps, futures, options and forward contracts that are exchange-traded or contracted in the over-the-counter market. our derivatives also include interest rate guarantees we provide on our synthetic gic products. synthetic gics simulate the performance of traditional insurance-related gics but are accounted for as derivatives under u.s. gaap due to the fact that the policyholders own the underlying assets, and we only provide a book value wrap on the customers funds, which are held in a client-owned trust. since these wraps provide payment of guaranteed principal and interest to the customer, changes in interest rates create risk that declines in the market value of customers funds would increase our net exposure to these guarantees; however, this risk is minimal due to several mitigating factors. our obligation is limited to payments that are in excess of the existing customers fund value. additionally, we have the ability to periodically reset crediting rates, subject to a 0% minimum floor, as well as the ability to increase prices. further, our contract provisions provide that, although participants may withdraw funds at book value, contractholder withdrawals may only occur at market value immediately, or at book value over time. these factors, among others, result in these contracts experiencing minimal changes in fair value, despite a more significant notional value. 201 table of contents our derivatives also include those that are embedded in certain financial instruments, and primarily relate to certain optional living benefit features associated with our variable annuity products, as discussed in more detail in market risk related to certain variable annuity products below. the notional amount of derivative instruments increased $33 billion in 2013, from $294 billion as of december 31, 2012 to $327 billion as of december 31, 2013. the increase was primarily related to our variable annuity hedging activities and our capital hedge program. for additional information on our derivative activities, see note 21 to the consolidated financial statements below. market risk related to certain variable annuity products the primary risk exposures of our variable annuity contracts relate to actual deviations from, or changes to, the assumptions used in the original pricing of these products, including capital markets assumptions, such as equity market returns, interest rates and market volatility and actuarial assumptions. for our capital markets assumptions, we hedge or limit our exposure to the risk created by capital markets fluctuations through a combination of product design elements, such as an automatic rebalancing element and inclusion of certain optional living benefits in our living benefits hedging program. certain variable annuity optional living benefit features are accounted for as an embedded derivative and recorded at fair value. the market risk sensitivities associated with u.s. gaap values of both the embedded derivatives and the related derivatives used to hedge the changes in fair value of these embedded derivatives are provided under market risk related to interest rates and market risk related to equity prices above. for additional information regarding our risk management strategies, including our living benefit hedging program and other product design elements, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations results of operations for financial services businesses by segment individual annuities above. 202 table of contentsrisk factors 36 risk factors you should carefully consider the following risks. these risks are not exclusive, and additional risks to which we are subject include, but are not limited to, the factors mentioned under forward-looking statements above and the risks of our businesses described elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k. many of these risks are interrelated and could occur under similar business and economic conditions, and the occurrence of certain of them may in turn cause the emergence or exacerbate the effect of others. such a combination could materially increase the severity of the impact of these risks on our businesses, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. risks relating to economic, market and political conditions market fluctuations and general economic, market and political conditions may adversely affect our business and profitability. our businesses and our results of operations may be materially adversely affected by conditions in the global financial markets and by economic conditions generally. even under relatively favorable market conditions, our insurance, annuity and investment products, as well as our investment returns and our access to and cost of financing, are sensitive to fixed income, equity, real estate 36 table of contents and other market fluctuations and general economic, market and political conditions. these fluctuations and conditions could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and liquidity, including in the following respects: the profitability of many of our insurance and annuity products depends in part on the value of the separate accounts supporting these products, which can fluctuate substantially depending on the foregoing conditions. market conditions resulting in reductions in the value of assets we manage or lower transaction volume have an adverse effect on the revenues and profitability of our asset management business, which depends on fees related primarily to the value of assets under management or transaction volume, and could decrease the value of our strategic investments. a change in market conditions, such as high inflation and high interest rates, could cause a change in consumer sentiment and behavior adversely affecting sales and persistency of our savings and protection products. conversely, low inflation and low interest rates could cause persistency of these products to vary from that anticipated and adversely affect profitability (as further described below). similarly, changing economic conditions and unfavorable public perception of financial institutions can influence customer behavior, including increasing claims or surrenders in certain product lines. sales of our investment-based and asset management products and services may decline, and lapses and surrenders of certain insurance products and withdrawals of assets from investment products may increase if a market downturn, increased market volatility or other market conditions result in customers becoming dissatisfied with their investments or products. a market decline could further result in guaranteed minimum benefits contained in many of our variable annuity products being higher than current account values or our pricing assumptions would support, requiring us to materially increase reserves for such products, and may cause customers to retain contracts in force in order to benefit from the guarantees, thereby increasing their cost to us. any increased cost may or may not be offset by the favorable impact of greater persistency from prolonged fee streams. our valuation of the liabilities for the minimum benefits contained in many of our variable annuity products requires us to consider the market perception of our risk of non-performance, and a decrease in our own credit spreads resulting from ratings upgrades or other events or market conditions could cause the recorded value of these liabilities to increase, which in turn could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. market conditions determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection we purchase. accordingly, we may be forced to incur additional expenses for reinsurance or may not be able to obtain sufficient reinsurance on acceptable terms which could adversely affect the profitability of future business or our willingness to write future business. derivative instruments we hold to hedge and manage foreign exchange risk, interest rate and equity risks associated with our products and businesses, and other risks might not perform as intended or expected resulting in higher realized losses and unforeseen stresses on liquidity. market conditions can limit availability of hedging instruments, require us to post additional collateral, and also further increase the cost of executing product related hedges and such costs may not be recovered in the pricing of the underlying products being hedged. our derivative-based hedging strategies also rely on the performance of counterparties to such derivatives. these counterparties may fail to perform for various reasons resulting in losses on uncollateralized positions. positions that we are required to mark to market may cause, and have caused, volatility in reported results of operations due to market fluctuations. we have significant investment and derivative portfolios, including but not limited to corporate and asset-backed securities, foreign government securities (primarily those of the japanese government), equities and commercial real estate. economic conditions as well as adverse capital market conditions, including a lack of buyers in the marketplace, volatility, credit spread changes, benchmark interest rate changes, changes in foreign currency exchange rates and declines in value of underlying collateral will impact the credit quality, liquidity and value of our investments and derivatives, potentially resulting in higher capital charges and unrealized or realized losses. valuations may include assumptions or estimates that may have significant period to period changes which could have a material adverse effect on our results 37 table of contents of operations or financial condition, and in certain cases under u.s. gaap such period to period changes in the value of investments are not recognized in our results of operations or consolidated statements of financial position. opportunities for investment of available funds at appropriate returns may be limited, including due to the current low interest rate environment, a diminished securitization market or other factors, with possible negative impacts on our overall results. limited opportunities for attractive investments may lead to holding cash for long periods of time and increased use of derivatives for duration management and other portfolio management purposes. the increased use of derivatives may increase the volatility of our u.s. gaap results and our statutory capital. regardless of market conditions, certain investments we hold, including private bonds, commercial mortgages and alternative asset classes (such as private equity, hedge funds and real estate) are relatively illiquid. if we needed to sell these investments, we may have difficulty doing so in a timely manner at a price that we could otherwise realize. certain features of our products and components of investment strategies depend on active and liquid markets, and, if market liquidity is strained or the capacity of the financial markets to absorb our transactions is inadequate, these products may not perform as intended. fluctuations in our operating results as well as realized gains and losses on our investment and derivative portfolios may impact the company tax profile and its ability to optimally utilize tax attributes. our investments, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by developments in the global economy, in the u.s. economy (including as a result of actions by the federal reserve with respect to monetary policy, and adverse political developments, including a failure to increase the federal debt ceiling), and in the japanese economy (including due to the effects of inflation or deflation, interest rate volatility, changes in the japan sovereign credit rating, and material changes in the value of the japanese yen relative to the u.s. dollar and, to a lesser extent, the australian dollar). global, u.s. or japanese economic activity and financial markets may in turn be negatively affected by adverse developments or conditions in specific geographical regions. interest rate fluctuations or prolonged periods of low interest rates could adversely affect our businesses and profitability and require us to increase reserves or statutory capital and subject us to additional collateral posting requirements. our insurance and annuity products and certain of our investment products, and our investment returns, are sensitive to interest rate fluctuations, and changes in interest rates could adversely affect our investment returns and results of operations, including in the following respects: some of our products expose us to the risk that changes in interest rates will reduce the spread between the amounts that we are required to pay under the contracts and the rate of return we are able to earn on our general account investments supporting the contracts. when interest rates decline, we have to reinvest in lower-yielding instruments, potentially reducing net investment income. since many of our policies and contracts have guaranteed minimum interest crediting rates or limit the resetting of interest rates, the spreads could decrease and potentially become negative, or go further negative. when interest rates rise, we may not be able to replace the assets in our general account as quickly with the higher-yielding assets needed to fund the higher crediting rates necessary to keep these products and contracts competitive. in addition, rising interest rates could cause a decline in the market value of fixed income assets the company manages which in turn could result in lower asset management fees earned. changes in interest rates can also result in potential losses in our investment activities in which we borrow funds and purchase investments to earn additional spread income on the borrowed funds. when interest rates rise, policy loans and surrenders and withdrawals of life insurance policies and annuity contracts may increase as policyholders seek to buy products with perceived higher returns, requiring us to sell investment assets potentially resulting in realized investment losses, or requiring us to accelerate the amortization of deferred acquisition costs ( dac ), deferred sales inducements ( dsi ) or value of business acquired ( voba ). in addition, increasing interest rates could cause capital strain due to lower solvency margin levels of our japanese insurance subsidiaries because the carrying value of 38 table of contents bonds classified as available-for-sale would decline while the carrying value of liabilities would generally remain unchanged. also, an increase in interest rates accompanied by unexpected extensions of certain lower yielding investments could reduce our profitability. when interest rates rise, hedging activities associated with some of our products could subject us to increased collateral posting requirements. a decline in interest rates accompanied by unexpected prepayments of certain investments could require us to reinvest at lower rates and reduce our profitability. a decline in interest rates could require us to contribute capital to subsidiaries to support our annuities business. changes in interest rates coupled with greater than expected client withdrawals for certain products can result in increased costs associated with our guarantees. changes in the relationship between long-term and short-term interest rates could adversely affect the profitability of some of our products. changes in interest rates could increase our costs of financing. our mitigation efforts with respect to interest rate risk are primarily focused on maintaining an investment portfolio with diversified maturities that has a key rate duration profile that is approximately equal to the key rate duration profile of our estimated liability cash flow profile; however, this estimate of the liability cash flow profile is complex and could turn out to be inaccurate, especially when markets are volatile. in addition, there are practical and capital market limitations on our ability to accomplish this matching. due to these and other factors we may need to liquidate investments prior to maturity at a loss in order to satisfy liabilities or be forced to reinvest funds in a lower rate environment. although we take measures to manage the economic risks of investing in a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to effectively mitigate, and we may sometimes choose based on economic considerations and other factors not to fully mitigate, the interest rate risk of our assets relative to our liabilities. for certain of our products, a delay between the time we make changes in interest rate and other assumptions used for product pricing and the time we are able to reflect these assumptions in products available for sale could negatively impact the long-term profitability of products sold during the intervening period. recent periods have been characterized by low interest rates. a prolonged period during which interest rates remain at levels lower than those anticipated in our pricing may result in greater costs associated with certain of our product features which guarantee death benefits or income streams for stated periods or for life; higher costs for derivative instruments used to hedge certain of our product risks; or shortfalls in investment income on assets supporting policy obligations, each of which may require us to record charges to increase reserves. in addition to compressing spreads and reducing net investment income, such an environment may cause policies to remain in force for longer periods than we anticipated in our pricing, potentially resulting in greater claims costs than we expected and resulting in lower overall returns on business in force. reflecting these impacts in recoverability and loss recognition testing under u.s. gaap may require us to accelerate the amortization of dac, dsi or voba as noted above, as well as to increase required reserves for future policyholder benefits. in addition, certain statutory capital and reserve requirements are based on formulas or models that consider interest rates, and a period of declining or low interest rates may increase the statutory capital we are required to hold as well as the amount of assets we must maintain to support statutory reserves. adverse capital market conditions could significantly affect our ability to meet liquidity needs, our access to capital and our cost of capital, including capital that may be required by our subsidiaries. under such conditions, we may seek additional debt or equity capital but may be unable to obtain it. adverse capital market conditions could affect the availability and cost of borrowed funds and could impact our ability to refinance existing borrowings, thereby ultimately impacting our profitability and ability to support or grow our businesses. we need liquidity to pay our operating expenses, interest and maturities on our debt and dividends on our capital stock. during times of market stress, our internal sources of liquidity may prove to be insufficient and some of our alternative sources of liquidity, such as commercial paper issuance, securities lending and repurchase arrangements and other forms of borrowings in the capital markets, may be unavailable to us. 39 table of contents disruptions, uncertainty and volatility in the financial markets may force us to delay raising capital, issue shorter tenor securities than would be optimal, bear an unattractive cost of capital or be unable to raise capital at any price, which could decrease our profitability and significantly reduce our financial flexibility. we may seek additional debt or equity financing to satisfy our needs; however, the availability of additional financing depends on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the overall availability of credit to the financial services industry, and our credit ratings and credit capacity. we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. actions we might take to access financing may in turn cause rating agencies to reevaluate our ratings. further, any future equity offerings would dilute the ownership interest of existing shareholders. disruptions in the capital markets could adversely affect prudential financial and its subsidiaries ability to access sources of liquidity, as well as threaten to reduce our capital below a level that is consistent with our existing ratings objectives. therefore, we may need to take actions, which may include but are not limited to: (1) access contingent sources of capital and liquidity available through our capital protection framework; (2) further access other external sources of capital, including the debt or equity markets; (3) reduce or eliminate future share repurchases or shareholder dividends; (4) undertake additional capital management activities, including reinsurance transactions; (5) limit or curtail sales of certain products and/or restructure existing products; (6) undertake further asset sales or internal asset transfers; (7) seek temporary or permanent changes to regulatory rules; and (8) maintain greater levels of cash balances or for longer periods thereby reducing investment returns. certain of these actions may require regulatory approval and/or agreement of counterparties which are outside of our control or have economic costs associated with them. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect our profitability, financial condition and cash flows, as well as increase the volatility of our results of operations under u.s. gaap. as a u.s.-based company with significant business operations outside the u.s., particularly in japan, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange risks that could reduce the u.s. dollar equivalent earnings and equity of these operations. we enter into derivative contracts in order to hedge the future income of certain of our international subsidiaries. further, our japanese subsidiaries hold u.s. dollar-denominated assets as a way for us to mitigate the effect of fluctuations in the yen exchange rate on our u.s. dollar-equivalent equity in these subsidiaries. we seek to mitigate volatility in the local solvency margins of our japanese subsidiaries due to holding these u.s. dollar-denominated investments by entering into inter-company currency derivatives. currency fluctuations could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows or financial condition as a result of these derivative positions or due to foreign income or equity investments that are not hedged. a significant strengthening of the yen could adversely impact the value of our hedges and u.s. dollar-denominated investments held in our japanese subsidiaries and could result in additional liquidity or capital needs for our international insurance operations. our japanese insurance operations offer products denominated in non-yen currencies, with the liabilities for these products supported by investments denominated in the corresponding currencies. while the impact from foreign currency exchange rate movements on these non-yen denominated assets and liabilities are economically matched, the accounting for changes in the value of these assets and liabilities due to changes in foreign currency exchange rate movements may differ, resulting in volatility in our net income under u.s. gaap. we hold investments denominated in foreign currencies in the general account of our domestic insurance subsidiaries. we generally seek to hedge this foreign currency exposure but there is no assurance that we will fully hedge this exposure or that such hedges will be effective. the value and liquidity of our foreign currency investments could be adversely affected by local adverse market, economic and financial conditions. for example, our investments denominated in euro could be adversely affected by the unfavorable economic conditions in europe, including due to potential changes in the euro or to the structure or membership of the european monetary union. 40 table of contents risks relating to estimates, assumptions and valuations our profitability may decline if mortality experience, morbidity experience, persistency experience or utilization experience differ significantly from our pricing expectations. we set prices for many of our insurance and annuity products based upon expected claims and payment patterns, using assumptions for mortality rates (the likelihood of death or the likelihood of survival), morbidity rates (the likelihood of sickness or disability), and improvement trends in mortality and morbidity of our policyholders. in addition to the potential effect of natural or man-made disasters, significant changes in mortality or morbidity could emerge gradually over time, due to changes in the natural environment, the health habits of the insured population, treatment patterns and technologies for disease or disability, the economic environment, or other factors. pricing of our insurance and deferred annuity products are also based in part upon expected persistency of these products, which is the probability that a policy or contract will remain in force from one period to the next. persistency within our annuities business may be significantly impacted by the value of guaranteed minimum benefits contained in many of our variable annuity products being higher than current account values in light of poor equity market performance or extended periods of low interest rates as well as other factors. persistency could be adversely affected generally by developments affecting client perception of us, including perceptions arising from adverse publicity. many of our products also provide our customers with wide flexibility with respect to the amount and timing of premium deposits and the amount and timing of withdrawals from the policy value. results may vary based on differences between actual and expected premium deposits and withdrawals for these products, especially if these product features are relatively new to the marketplace. the pricing of certain of our variable annuity products that contain certain living benefit guarantees is also based on assumptions about utilization rates, or the percentage of contracts that will utilize the benefit during the contract duration, including the timing of the first lifetime income withdrawal. results may vary based on differences between actual and expected benefit utilization. the development of a secondary market for life insurance, including life settlements or viaticals and investor owned life insurance, and third-party investor strategies in the annuities business, could adversely affect the profitability of existing business and our pricing assumptions for new business. significant deviations in actual experience from our pricing assumptions could have an adverse effect on the profitability of our products. although some of our products permit us to increase premiums or adjust other charges and credits during the life of the policy or contract, the adjustments permitted under the terms of the policies or contracts may not be sufficient to maintain profitability or may cause the policies or contracts to lapse. for our long-term care insurance products, our assumptions for reserves for future policy benefits have factored in an estimate of the timing and amount of anticipated and yet-to-be-filed premium increases which will require state approval. our actual experience obtaining pricing increases could be materially different than what we have assumed, resulting in further policy liability increases which could be material. many of our products do not permit us to increase premiums or adjust other charges and credits or limit those adjustments during the life of the policy or contract. even if permitted under the policy or contract, we may not be able or willing to raise premiums or adjust other charges sufficiently, or at all, for regulatory or competitive reasons. if our reserves for future policyholder benefits and expenses are inadequate, we may be required to increase our reserves, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we establish reserves in accordance with u.s. gaap for future policyholder benefits and expenses. while these reserves generally exceed our best estimate of the liability for future benefits and expenses, if we conclude based on updated assumptions that our reserves, together with future premiums, are insufficient to cover future policy benefits and expenses, including unamortized dac, dsi or voba, we would need to accelerate the amortization of these dac, dsi or voba balances and then increase our reserves and incur income statement charges, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. the determination of our best estimate of the liability is based on data and models that include many assumptions and projections which are inherently uncertain and involve the exercise of significant judgment, including the levels and timing of receipt or payment of premiums, benefits, expenses, interest credits and investment results (including equity market returns), which depend on actual retirement, mortality, morbidity and persistency experience. we cannot determine with precision the ultimate amounts that we will pay for, or the timing of payment of, actual benefits and expenses or whether the assets supporting our policy liabilities, together with future premiums, will be 41 table of contents sufficient for payment of benefits and expenses. if we conclude that our reserves, together with future premiums, are insufficient to cover future policy benefits and expenses, we may seek to increase premiums where we are able to do so. updated assumptions may also require us to increase u.s. gaap reserves for the guarantees in certain nontraditional long-duration contracts. for certain of our products, market performance and interest rates (as well as the regulatory environment, as discussed further below) impact the level of statutory reserves and statutory capital we are required to hold, and may have an adverse effect on returns on capital associated with these products. our ability to efficiently manage capital and economic reserve levels may be impacted, thereby impacting profitability and returns on capital. we may be required to accelerate the amortization of dac, dsi or voba, or recognize impairment in the value of our goodwill or certain investments, or be required to establish a valuation allowance against deferred income tax assets, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. dac represents the costs that vary with and are directly related to the acquisition of new and renewal insurance and annuity contracts, and we amortize these costs over the expected lives of the contracts. dsi represents amounts that are credited to a policyholder account balance as an inducement to purchase the contract, and we amortize these costs over the expected lives of the contracts. voba represents the present value of future profits embedded in acquired insurance, annuity and investment-type contracts and is amortized over the expected lives of the acquired contracts. management, on an ongoing basis, tests the dac, dsi and voba recorded on our balance sheet to determine if these amounts are recoverable under current assumptions. in addition, we regularly review the estimates and assumptions underlying dac, dsi and voba for those products for which we amortize dac, dsi and voba in proportion to gross profits or gross margins. given changes in facts and circumstances, these tests and reviews could lead to reductions in dac, dsi and/or voba that could have an adverse effect on the results of our operations and our financial condition. among other things, significant or sustained equity market declines as well as investment losses could result in acceleration of amortization of the dac, dsi and voba related to variable annuity and variable universal life contracts, resulting in a charge to income. as discussed earlier, the amortization of dac, dsi and voba are also sensitive to changes in interest rates. goodwill represents the excess of the amounts we paid to acquire subsidiaries and other businesses over the fair value of their net assets at the date of acquisition. goodwill is assessed annually for potential impairment, or more frequently if conditions warrant, by comparing the carrying value (equity attributed to a business to support its risk) of a business to its estimated fair value at that date. as of december 31, 2014, we had goodwill balances related to certain of our businesses. market declines or other events impacting the fair value of these businesses, or increases in the level of equity required to support these businesses, could result in goodwill impairments, resulting in a charge to income. we have operating equity method investments within our international insurance and asset management segments and corporate and other operations. declines in the fair value of these investments may require that we review the remaining carrying value of these investments for potential impairment, and such review could result in impairments and charges to income. deferred income tax represents the tax effect of the differences between the book and tax basis of assets and liabilities. deferred tax assets are assessed periodically by management to determine if they are realizable. factors in management determination include the performance of the business including the geographic and legal entity source of our income, the ability to generate capital gains from a variety of sources, and tax planning strategies. if based on available information, it is more likely than not that the deferred income tax asset will not be realized then a valuation allowance must be established with a corresponding charge to net income. such charges could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. 42 table of contents our valuation of fixed maturity, equity and trading securities may include methodologies, estimations and assumptions that are subject to differing interpretations and could result in changes to investment valuations that may materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. during periods of market disruption, it may be difficult to value certain of our investment securities if trading becomes less frequent or market data becomes less observable. there may be cases where certain assets in normally active markets with significant observable data become inactive with insufficient observable data due to the current financial environment or market conditions. in addition, the fair value of certain securities may be based on one or more significant unobservable inputs even in ordinary market conditions. as a result, valuations may include inputs and assumptions that require greater estimation and judgment as well as valuation methods which are more complex. these values may not be ultimately realizable in a market transaction, and such values may change very rapidly as market conditions change and valuation assumptions are modified. decreases in value may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. the decision on whether to record an other-than-temporary impairment or write-down is determined in part by management assessment of the financial condition and prospects of a particular issuer, projections of future cash flows and recoverability of the particular security. management conclusions on such assessments are highly judgmental and include assumptions and projections of future cash flows which may ultimately prove to be incorrect as assumptions, facts and circumstances change. changes in our discount rate, expected rate of return, life expectancy, health care cost and expected compensation increase assumptions for our pension and other postretirement benefit plans may result in increased expenses and reduce our profitability. we determine our pension and other postretirement benefit plan costs based on assumed discount rates, expected rates of return on plan assets, life expectancy of plan participants and expected increases in compensation levels and trends in health care costs. changes in these assumptions, including from the impact of a sustained low interest rate environment, may result in increased expenses and reduce our profitability. credit and counterparty risks an inability to access our credit facilities could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we maintain committed unsecured revolving credit facilities. we rely on these credit facilities as a potential source of liquidity which could be critical in enabling us to meet our obligations as they come due, particularly during periods when alternative sources of liquidity are limited. our ability to borrow under these facilities is conditioned on our satisfaction of covenants and other requirements contained in the facilities, such as prudential financial maintenance of a prescribed minimum level of consolidated net worth calculated in accordance with the applicable credit agreement. our failure to satisfy these and other requirements contained in the credit facilities would restrict our access to the facilities when needed and, consequently, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. a downgrade or potential downgrade in our financial strength or credit ratings could limit our ability to market products, increase policy surrenders and withdrawals, require us to post collateral, increase our borrowing costs and/or hurt our relationships with creditors, distributors, reinsurers or trading counterparties and restrict our access to alternative sources of liquidity. a downgrade in our financial strength or credit ratings could potentially, among other things, limit our ability to market products, reduce our competitiveness, increase the number or value of policy surrenders and withdrawals, increase our borrowing costs and potentially make it more difficult to borrow funds, adversely affect the availability of financial guarantees, such as letters of credit, cause additional collateral requirements or other required payments under certain agreements, allow counterparties to terminate derivative agreements, and/or hurt our relationships with creditors, distributors, reinsurers or trading counterparties thereby potentially 43 table of contents negatively affecting our profitability, liquidity and/or capital. in addition, we consider our own risk of non-performance in determining the fair value of certain of our liabilities, including insurance liabilities that are classified as embedded derivatives under u.s. gaap. changes in our credit or financial strength ratings may therefore affect the fair value of our liabilities. a downgrade in the credit or financial strength ratings of prudential financial or its rated subsidiaries could result in additional collateral requirements or other required payments under certain agreements, including derivative agreements, which are eligible to be satisfied in cash or by posting securities held by the subsidiaries subject to the agreements. a ratings downgrade of three ratings levels from the ratings levels at december 31, 2014 (relating to financial strength ratings in certain cases and credit ratings in other cases) would result in estimated collateral posting requirements or payments under such agreements of approximately $9 million. in addition, a ratings downgrade by a.m. best to a- for our domestic life insurance companies would require prudential insurance to post a letter of credit in the amount of approximately $1.4 billion, based on the level of statutory reserves related to the variable annuity business acquired from allstate. prudential insurance has been a member of the fhlbny since june 2008. membership allows prudential insurance access to fhlbny financial services, including the ability to obtain collateralized loans and to issue collateralized funding agreements that can be used as an alternative source of liquidity. under fhlbny guidelines, if prudential insurance financial strength ratings decline below a/a2/a stable by s&amp;p, moody and fitch, respectively, and the fhlbny does not receive written assurances from the new jersey department of banking and insurance regarding prudential insurance solvency, new borrowings from the fhlbny would be limited to a term of 90 days or less. although prudential insurance ratings are currently at or above the required minimum levels, there can be no assurance that the ratings will remain at these levels in the future. we cannot predict what additional actions rating agencies may take, or what actions we may take in response to the actions of rating agencies, which could adversely affect our business. as with other companies in the financial services industry, our ratings could be downgraded at any time and without advance notice by any rating agency. losses due to defaults by others, including issuers of investment securities, reinsurers and derivatives counterparties, insolvencies of insurers in jurisdictions where we write business and other factors could adversely affect the value of our investments, the realization of amounts contractually owed to us, result in assessments or additional statutory capital requirements or reduce our profitability or sources of liquidity. issuers and borrowers whose securities or loans we hold, customers, vendors, trading counterparties, counterparties under swaps and other derivative contracts, reinsurers, clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses and other financial intermediaries and guarantors, including bond insurers, may default on their obligations to us or be unable to perform service functions that are significant to our business due to bankruptcy, insolvency, lack of liquidity, adverse economic conditions, operational failure, fraud or other reasons. such defaults could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we use derivative instruments to hedge various risks, including certain guaranteed minimum benefits contained in many of our variable annuity products. we enter into a variety of derivative instruments, including options, forwards, interest rate, credit default and currency swaps with a number of counterparties. amounts that we expect to collect under current and future contracts, including, but not limited to reinsurance contracts, are subject to counterparty risk. our obligations under our products are not changed by our hedging activities and we are liable for our obligations even if our derivative counterparties or reinsurers do not pay us. such defaults could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. under state insurance guaranty association laws and similar laws in international jurisdictions, we are subject to assessments, based on the share of business we write in the relevant jurisdiction, for certain obligations of insolvent insurance companies to policyholders and claimants. we also use reinsurance as part of our capital management strategy. ratings downgrades or financial difficulties of reinsurers may require us to utilize additional capital with respect to the impacted businesses. 44 table of contents our investment portfolio is subject to risks that could diminish the value of our invested assets and the amount of our investment income, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. we record unrealized gains or losses on securities classified as available-for-sale in other comprehensive income (loss), and in turn recognize gains or losses in earnings when the gain or loss is realized upon the sale of the security or in the event that the decline in estimated fair value is determined to be other-than-temporary. the occurrence of a major economic downturn, acts of corporate malfeasance, widening credit spreads, or other events that adversely affect the issuers or guarantors of securities or the underlying collateral of structured securities could cause (i) the market price of fixed maturity securities in our investment portfolio to decline, which could cause us to record gross unrealized losses, (ii) earnings on those securities to decline, which could result in lower earnings, and (iii) ultimately defaults, which could result in a charge to earnings. a ratings downgrade affecting issuers or guarantors of particular securities, or similar trends that could worsen the credit quality of our investments could also have a similar effect. in addition, a ratings downgrade affecting a security we hold could indicate the credit quality of that security has deteriorated and could increase the capital we must hold to maintain our rbc levels. our non-coupon investment portfolio is subject to additional risks. we invest a portion of our investments in hedge funds and private equity funds. the amount and timing of net investment income from such funds tends to be uneven as a result of the performance of the underlying investments. the timing of distributions from such funds, which depends on particular events relating to the underlying investments, as well as the funds schedules for making distributions and their needs for cash, can be difficult to predict. as a result, the amount of net investment income from these investments can vary substantially from quarter to quarter. significant volatility could adversely impact returns and net investment income on these investments. in addition, the estimated fair value of such investments may be impacted by downturns or volatility in equity markets. in our real estate portfolio, we are subject to declining prices or cash flows as a result of changes in the supply and demand of leasable space, creditworthiness of tenants and partners and other factors. certain product related risks guarantees within certain of our products that protect policyholders may decrease our earnings or increase the volatility of our results of operations or financial position under u.s. gaap if our hedging or risk management strategies prove ineffective or insufficient. certain of our products, particularly our variable annuity products, include guarantees of minimum surrender values or income streams for stated periods or for life, which may be in excess of account values. downturns in equity markets, increased equity volatility, or (as discussed above) reduced interest rates could result in an increase in the valuation of liabilities associated with such guarantees, resulting in increases in reserves and reductions in net income. we use a variety of hedging and risk management strategies, including product features, to mitigate these risks in part. these strategies may, however, not be fully effective. we may also choose not to fully hedge these risks. hedging instruments may not effectively offset the costs of guarantees or may otherwise be insufficient in relation to our obligations. hedging instruments also may not change in value correspondingly with associated liabilities due to equity market or interest rate conditions or other reasons. we sometimes choose to hedge these risks on a basis that does not correspond to their anticipated or actual impact upon our results of operations or financial position under u.s. gaap. changes from period to period in the valuation of these policy benefits, and in the amount of our obligations effectively hedged, will result in volatility in our results of operations and financial position under u.s. gaap. estimates and assumptions we make in connection with hedging activities may fail to reflect or correspond to our actual long-term exposure in respect of our guarantees. further, the risk of increases in the costs of our guarantees not covered by our hedging and other capital and risk management strategies may become more significant due to changes in policyholder behavior driven by market conditions or other factors. the above factors, individually or collectively, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. 45 table of contents we may not be able to mitigate the reserve strain associated with regulation xxx and guideline axxx, potentially resulting in a negative impact on our capital position or in a need to increase prices and/or reduce sales of term or universal life products. the states of domicile of our domestic insurance subsidiaries have in place a regulation entitled valuation of life insurance policies, commonly known as regulation xxx, and a supporting guideline entitled the application of the valuation of life insurance policies, commonly known as guideline axxx. the regulation and supporting guideline require insurers to establish statutory reserves for term and universal life insurance policies with long-term premium guarantees that are consistent with the statutory reserves required for other individual life insurance policies with similar guarantees. many market participants believe that this level of reserves is excessive, and we have implemented reinsurance and capital management actions to mitigate the impact of regulation xxx and guideline axxx on our term and universal life insurance business. as we continue to underwrite term and universal life business, we expect to have borrowing needs to finance statutory reserves required under regulation xxx and guideline axxx. however, if we are unsuccessful in obtaining additional financing as a result of market conditions, regulatory actions or otherwise, this could require us to increase prices and or/reduce our sales of term or universal life products and/or have a negative impact on our capital position. we may experience difficulty in marketing and distributing products through our current and future distribution channels. although we distribute our products through a wide variety of distribution channels, we do maintain relationships with certain key distributors. for example, a significant amount of our sales in japan through banks is derived through a single major japanese bank and a significant portion of our sales in japan through life consultants is derived through a single association relationship. we periodically negotiate the terms of these relationships, and there can be no assurance that such terms will remain acceptable to us or such third parties. an interruption in certain key relationships could materially affect our ability to market our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. distributors may elect to reduce or terminate their distribution relationships with us, including for such reasons as adverse developments in our business, adverse rating agency actions or concerns about market-related risks. we are also at risk that key distribution partners may merge, change their business models in ways that affect how our products are sold, or terminate their distribution contracts with us, or that new distribution channels could emerge and adversely impact the effectiveness of our distribution efforts. an increase in bank and broker-dealer consolidation activity could increase competition for access to distributors, result in greater distribution expenses and impair our ability to market products through these channels. consolidation of distributors and/or other industry changes may also increase the likelihood that distributors will try to renegotiate the terms of any existing selling agreements to terms less favorable to us. when our products are distributed through unaffiliated firms, we may not be able to monitor or control the manner of their distribution despite our training and compliance programs. if our products are distributed by such firms in an inappropriate manner, or to customers for whom they are unsuitable, we may suffer reputational and other harm to our business. changes to the social security disability insurance program could have a significant impact on the group disability market. uncertainty around the future of the social security disability insurance ( ssdi ) program could have a substantial impact on the group disability market. without changes to the federal funding of the ssdi program, the program is projected by its board to become insolvent in 2016. since ssdi benefits are an offset to the benefits payable under group disability policies, any decrease in ssdi benefits, or changes in eligibility, could have a significant impact on the group disability market, including reserve impacts and increases in the cost of benefits. 46 table of contents regulatory and legal risks our businesses are heavily regulated and changes in regulation may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. our businesses are subject to comprehensive regulation and supervision. the purpose of this regulation is primarily to protect our customers and not necessarily our shareholders or debt holders. many of the laws and regulations to which we are subject, including those to which our international businesses are subject, are regularly re-examined, and existing or future laws and regulations may become more restrictive or otherwise adversely affect our operations. the financial market dislocations we have experienced have produced, and are expected to continue to produce, extensive changes in existing laws and regulations, and regulatory frameworks, applicable to our businesses in the u.s. and internationally. prudential financial, the holding company for all of our operations, is subject to supervision by the frb as a designated financial company pursuant to dodd-frank. as a designated financial company, prudential financial is and will be subject to substantial additional regulation as discussed further herein. in addition, the fsb identified prudential financial as a g-sii. as a result, u.s. financial regulators are expected to enhance their regulation of prudential financial to achieve a number of regulatory objectives. this additional regulation is likely to increase our operational, compliance and risk management costs, and could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition, including potentially increasing our capital levels and requiring us to hold additional liquid assets and therefore reducing our return on capital. prudential financial is also subject to the rules and regulations of the sec and the nyse relating to public reporting and disclosure, securities trading, accounting and financial reporting, and corporate governance matters. the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and rules and regulations adopted in furtherance of that act substantially increased the requirements in these and other areas for public companies such as prudential financial. our internal controls over financial reporting may have gaps or other deficiencies and there is no assurance that significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in internal controls may not occur in the future. any such gaps or deficiencies may require significant resources to remediate and may also expose the company to litigation, regulatory fines or penalties or other losses. many insurance regulatory and other governmental or self-regulatory bodies have the authority to review our products and business practices and those of our agents and employees and to bring regulatory or other legal actions against us if, in their view, our practices, or those of our agents or employees, are improper. these actions can result in substantial fines, penalties or prohibitions or restrictions on our business activities and could adversely affect our business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. congress from time to time enacts pension reform legislation that could decrease or increase the attractiveness of certain of our retirement products and services to retirement plan sponsors and administrators, or have an unfavorable or favorable effect on our ability to earn revenues from these products and services. over time, these changes could hinder our sales of defined benefit pension products and services and cause sponsors to discontinue existing plans for which we provide asset management, administrative, or other services. insurance regulators continue to develop a principles-based reserving approach for life insurance products. the timing and the effect of these changes are uncertain. most of our u.s. operating insurance companies are licensed in new york, but none are domiciled in new york. in february 2014, the ny dfs notified us that it did not agree with our calculation of statutory reserves (including the applicable credit for reinsurance) for new york financial reporting purposes in respect of certain variable annuity products. during the fourth quarter of 2014, we reached an agreement with the ny dfs on reserving methodologies for new york financial reporting purposes in respect of certain variable annuity products and for certain life insurance products that will require certain of our new york licensed insurance subsidiaries to hold additional statutory reserves on a new york basis. while these subsidiaries held sufficient statutory surplus on a new york basis as of december 31, 2014 to satisfy these additional reserves, the agreed reserve methodologies may require us to hold additional new york statutory reserves in the future. if we are required to establish material additional reserves on a new york statutory accounting basis or post material amounts of additional collateral with respect to annuity or insurance products, our ability to deploy capital held within our u.s. domestic insurance subsidiaries for other purposes could be affected. 47 table of contents in addition, the naic, the ny dfs and other regulators have increased their focus on life insurers use of captive reinsurance companies, including for variable annuities, and the naic adopted a new actuarial guideline (ag 48) that applies to certain life insurance captive reinsurance transactions. the adoption of ag 48 and other changes to applicable insurance laws may adversely affect our ability to write certain products and efficiently manage their associated risks and we may need to increase prices on certain products, modify certain products or find alternate financing sources, any of which could adversely affect our competitiveness, capital and financial position and results of operations. see business regulation insurance operations state insurance regulation captive reinsurance companies for information on ag 48 and our use of captive reinsurance companies. the failure of prudential insurance and our other domestic insurance subsidiaries to meet applicable risk-based capital ( rbc ) requirements or minimum statutory capital and surplus requirements could subject those subsidiaries to further examination or corrective action by state insurance regulators. the failure to maintain the rbc ratios of prudential insurance and our other domestic insurance subsidiaries at desired levels could also adversely impact our competitive position, including as a result of downgrades to our financial strength ratings. our international insurance companies are subject to conceptually similar measures of capital adequacy, including solvency margin ratios for our japanese insurance companies, and we face similar risks as those described for our domestic companies in the event that we are unable to maintain these measures at adequate levels. further, adverse financial performance in the closed block, including adverse investment performance, may adversely affect prudential insurance rbc ratios in the short term, although dividends to closed block policyholders may be subsequently adjusted to reflect such performance. currently, there are several proposals to amend state insurance holding company laws to increase the scope of the regulation of insurance holding companies (such as prudential financial). these proposals include imposing standards for insurer corporate governance, enterprise risk management, group-wide supervision of insurance holding companies, adjustments to risk-based capital calculations to account for group-wide risks, and additional regulatory and disclosure requirements for insurance holding companies. in addition, state insurance regulators have focused attention on u.s. insurance solvency regulation pursuant to the naic solvency modernization initiative , including regulatory review of companies risk management practices and analyses. this initiative has resulted in the recent adoption of the naic risk management and own risk and solvency assessment model act which, following enactment at the state level, will require larger insurers, beginning in 2015, to assess the adequacy of their and their group risk management and current and future solvency position. at this time, we cannot predict with any degree of certainty what additional capital requirements, compliance costs or other burdens these requirements may impose on prudential financial. compliance with applicable laws and regulations is time consuming and personnel-intensive, and changes in these laws and regulations may materially increase our direct and indirect compliance and other expenses of doing business, and thereby have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. see business regulation for discussion of regulation of our businesses. the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act subjects us to substantial additional federal regulation and we cannot predict the effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. on september 19, 2013, the financial stability oversight council (the council ) made a final determination that prudential financial should be subject to stricter prudential regulatory standards and supervision by the frb as a designated financial company pursuant to dodd-frank, thereby subjecting us to substantial federal regulation, much of it pursuant to regulations not yet promulgated. dodd-frank directs existing and newly-created government agencies and bodies to promulgate regulations implementing the law, a process that is underway and expected to continue over the next few years. we cannot predict with any certainty the requirements of the regulations recently or not yet adopted or how dodd-frank and such regulations will affect the financial markets generally, impact our business, credit or financial strength ratings, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition or advise or require us to hold or raise additional capital or liquid assets. key aspects of dodd-frank impact on us include: as a designated financial company, prudential financial is now subject to supervision by the frb and examination by the federal reserve bank of boston and to stricter prudential standards, which include or 48 table of contents will include requirements and limitations (some of which are the subject of ongoing rule-making) relating to rbc, leverage, liquidity, risk management and credit concentration, and a requirement to prepare and submit an annual plan for rapid and orderly resolution in the event of severe financial distress. if the frb and the fdic jointly determine that our plan is deficient, they may impose more stringent capital, leverage, or liquidity requirements, or restrictions on our growth, activities, or operations. our continuing failure to adequately remedy the deficiencies could result in the frb and the fdic jointly, in consultation with the council, ordering divestiture of certain operations or assets to facilitate the company orderly resolution. in addition, failure to meet defined measures of financial condition could result in substantial restrictions on our business and capital distributions. we will now also be subject to stress tests to be promulgated by the frb which could cause us to alter our business practices or affect the perceptions of regulators, rating agencies, customers, counterparties or investors of our financial strength. we cannot predict the requirements of the regulations not yet adopted or how the frb will apply these prudential standards to us as a designated financial company. as a designated financial company, prudential financial must also seek pre-approval from the frb for acquisition of certain companies engaged in financial activities. as a designated financial company, we could also be subject to additional capital requirements for, and other restrictions on, proprietary trading and sponsorship of, and investment in, hedge, private equity and other covered funds. the council could recommend new or heightened standards and safeguards for activities or practices in which we and other financial services companies engage. we cannot predict whether any such recommendations will be made or their effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. dodd-frank creates a new framework for regulation of the over-the-counter ( otc ) derivatives markets which could impact various activities of pgf, prudential financial and our insurance subsidiaries, which use derivatives for various purposes (including hedging interest rate, foreign currency and equity market exposures). while many of the regulations required to be promulgated under dodd-frank with respect to derivatives markets have been adopted by the applicable regulatory agencies, the regulations that remain to be adopted or that have not been fully implemented could substantially increase the cost of hedging and related operations, affect the profitability of our products or their attractiveness to our clients or cause us to alter our hedging strategy or implementation thereof or increase and/or change the composition of the risks we do not hedge. in particular, final rules regarding margin requirements for otc derivatives have not been adopted, and any margin rules applicable to the company may be more onerous than the collateral posting requirements under our existing otc derivatives contracts. title ii of dodd-frank provides that a financial company such as prudential financial may be subject to a special orderly liquidation process outside the federal bankruptcy code, administered by the fdic as receiver, upon a determination that the company is in default or in danger of default and presents a systemic risk to u.s. financial stability, and our u.s. insurance subsidiaries would be subject to rehabilitation and liquidation proceedings under state insurance law. we cannot predict how creditors of prudential financial or its insurance and non-insurance subsidiaries, including the holders of prudential financial debt, will evaluate this potential or whether it will impact our financing or hedging costs. see business regulation for further discussion of the impact of dodd-frank on our businesses. foreign governmental actions could subject us to substantial additional regulation. in addition to the adoption of dodd-frank in the united states, the fsb has issued a series of proposals intended to produce significant changes in how financial companies, particularly companies that are members of large and complex financial groups, should be regulated. on july 18, 2013, the fsb identified prudential financial as a g-sii. the framework policy measures for g-siis published by the iais include enhanced group-wide supervision, enhanced capital standards (including bcr and higher loss absorption capital standards), enhanced liquidity planning and management, and development of a risk reduction plan and recovery and resolution plans. in october 2014, the iais concluded the development of its initial bcr framework. depending on the directions of domestic group wide supervisors, g-siis such as prudential financial will be required to report their bcr results beginning in 2015 on a confidential basis. the bcr will continue to be revised and refined by the iais once the confidential reporting 49 table of contents period begins, and a final capital framework for g-siis is anticipated by 2019. policy measures applicable to g-siis would need to be implemented by legislation or regulation in each applicable jurisdiction. we cannot predict the outcome of our identification as a g-sii on the regulation of our businesses. at the direction of the fsb, the iais is developing comframe for the supervision of iaigs that contemplates group wide supervision across national boundaries, including uniform standards for insurer corporate governance and enterprise risk management, a framework for group capital adequacy assessment that accounts for group-wide risks, and the establishment of ongoing supervisory colleges. prudential financial qualifies as an iaig. in october 2013, the iais announced that it expects to develop a risk-based global insurance capital standard applicable to iaigs with implementation scheduled to begin in 2019, and in december 2014 it published a proposed standard for public comment. at this time, we cannot predict what additional capital requirements, compliance costs or other burdens these requirements would impose on us, if adopted. the lawmakers and regulatory authorities in a number of jurisdictions in which we do business have already begun introducing legislative and regulatory changes consistent with g20 and fsb recommendations, including proposals governing consolidated regulation of insurance holdings companies by the fsa in japan and proposals governing executive compensation by the financial regulators in germany (bafin) and the united kingdom. in addition, the prudential regulation of insurance and reinsurance companies across the eea is due for significant change under solvency ii, which could come into force as early as january 2016. this new regime will effect a full revision of the insurance industry solvency framework and prudential regime and may have significant implications for non-european insurance groups, like ourselves, that have established insurance undertakings within the eea. there can be no assurance that solvency ii will not, at a minimum, result in increased supervisory, capital and disclosure burdens on prudential eea operations with potential broader collateral consequences to prudential financial. we cannot predict with any certainty the effect these initiatives may have on the financial markets or on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. adverse market, economic and financial conditions in europe have given rise to a perceived risk of defaults on the government securities of certain european countries and potentially by financial institutions with significant direct or indirect exposure to such government securities. further regulatory initiatives may develop in response to these conditions and related political and economic events such as possible changes in the euro or to the structure or membership of the european monetary union. changes in accounting requirements could negatively impact our reported results of operations and our reported financial position. accounting standards are continuously evolving and subject to change. for example, the fasb and international accounting standards board ( iasb ) have ongoing projects to revise accounting standards for insurance contracts. while the final resolution of changes to u.s. gaap and international financial reporting standards pursuant to these projects is unclear, changes to the manner in which we account for insurance products, or other changes in accounting standards, could have a material effect on our reported results of operations and financial condition. further, changes in accounting standards may impose special demands on issuers in areas such as corporate governance, internal controls and disclosure, and may result in substantial conversion costs to implement. changes in u.s. federal income tax law or in the income tax laws of other jurisdictions in the u.s. in which we operate could make some of our products less attractive to consumers and also increase our tax costs. there is uncertainty regarding u.s. taxes both for individuals and corporations. discussions in washington continue concerning the need to reform the tax code, primarily by lowering tax rates and broadening the base by reducing or eliminating certain tax expenditures. reducing or eliminating certain tax expenditures could make our products less attractive to customers. it is unclear whether or when congress may take up overall tax reform and what would be the impact of reform on the company and its products. 50 table of contents however, even in the absence of overall tax reform, the large federal deficit, as well as the budget constraints faced by many states and localities, increases the likelihood that congress and state and local governments will raise revenue by enacting legislation increasing the taxes paid by individuals and corporations. this can be accomplished either by raising rates or otherwise changing the tax rules. congress from time to time considers legislation that could make our products less attractive to consumers. current u.s. federal income tax laws generally permit certain holders to defer taxation on the build-up of value of annuities and life insurance products until payments are actually made to the policyholder or other beneficiary and to exclude from taxation the death benefit paid under a life insurance contract. while higher tax rates increase the benefits of tax deferral on the build-up of value of annuities and life insurance, making our products more attractive to consumers, legislation that reduces or eliminates deferral would have a potential negative effect on our products. congress, as well as state and local governments, also considers from time to time legislation that could increase the amount of corporate taxes we pay, thereby reducing earnings. for example, changes in the law relating to tax reserving methodologies for term life or universal life insurance policies with secondary guarantees or other products could result in higher current taxes. the obama administration revenue proposals include proposals which, if enacted, would affect the taxation of life insurance companies and certain life insurance products. in particular, the proposals would affect the treatment of corporate-owned life insurance policies ( coli ) by limiting the availability of certain interest deductions for companies that purchase those policies. the proposals would also change the method used to determine the amount of dividend income received by a life insurance company on assets held in separate accounts used to support products, including variable life insurance and variable annuity contracts, that is eligible for the drd. the drd reduces the amount of dividend income subject to tax and is a significant component of the difference between our actual tax expense and the expected tax amount determined using the federal statutory tax rate of 35%. if proposals of this type were enacted, the company sale of coli, variable annuities, and variable life insurance products could be adversely affected and the company actual tax expense could increase, thereby reducing earnings. furthermore, the administration fiscal year 2016 revenue proposals also include items that would change the way u.s. multinational corporations are taxed, as well as a liability-based fee on financial services companies, including insurance companies, with consolidated assets in excess of $50 billion. if these types of provisions are enacted into law, they could increase the amount of taxes the company pays. the products we sell have different tax characteristics, in some cases generating tax deductions for the company. the level of profitability of certain of our products is significantly dependent on these characteristics and our ability to continue to generate taxable income, which is taken into consideration when pricing products and is a component of our capital management strategies. accordingly, changes in tax law, our ability to generate taxable income, or other factors impacting the availability or value of the tax characteristics generated by our products could impact product pricing and returns or require us to reduce our sales of these products or implement other actions that could be disruptive to our businesses. in addition, the adoption of principles based approaches for statutory reserves may lead to significant changes to the way tax reserves are determined and thus reduce future tax deductions. for a discussion of the impact of the tax laws outside the u.s., see other risks we have substantial international operations and our international operations face political, legal, operational and other risks that could adversely affect those operations or our profitability below. our ability to meet obligations, pay shareholder dividends, and to engage in share repurchases may be adversely affected by limitations imposed on dividends and other distributions from our subsidiaries. prudential financial is the holding company for all our operations, and dividends, returns of capital and interest income from its subsidiaries are the principal source of funds available to prudential financial to pay shareholder dividends, to make share repurchases and to meet its other obligations. these sources of funds may be complemented by prudential financial access, if available, to the capital markets and bank facilities. as described under business regulation and note 15 to the consolidated financial statements, our domestic 51 table of contents and foreign insurance and various other subsidiary companies, are subject to regulatory limitations on the payment of dividends and on other transfers of funds to prudential financial. in addition, our management of our subsidiaries to have capitalization consistent with their ratings objectives itself may constrain their payment of dividends. finally, dodd-frank may ultimately result in additional restrictions on transfers of funds to prudential financial, either to satisfy enhanced prudential standards, due to inadequate stress-test performance, or otherwise. these restrictions on prudential financial subsidiaries may limit or prevent such subsidiaries from making dividend or other payments to prudential financial in an amount sufficient to fund prudential financial obligations, shareholder dividends and share repurchases. from time to time, the naic and various state and foreign insurance regulators have considered, and may in the future consider, proposals to further limit dividend payments that an insurance company may make without regulatory approval. legal and regulatory actions are inherent in our businesses and could adversely affect our results of operations or financial position or harm our businesses or reputation. we are, and in the future may be, subject to legal and regulatory actions in the ordinary course of our businesses, including in businesses that we have divested or placed in wind-down status. some of these proceedings have been brought on behalf of various alleged classes of complainants. in certain of these matters, the plaintiffs are seeking large and/or indeterminate amounts, including punitive or exemplary damages. legal liability or adverse publicity in respect of these or future legal or regulatory actions could have an adverse affect on us or cause us reputational harm, which in turn could harm our business prospects. material pending litigation and regulatory matters affecting us, and certain risks to our businesses presented by such matters, are discussed under commitments and guarantees, contingent liabilities and litigation and regulatory matters in the note 23 to consolidated financial statements. our litigation and regulatory matters are subject to many uncertainties, and given their complexity and scope, their outcome cannot be predicted. our reserves for litigation and regulatory matters may prove to be inadequate. it is possible that our results of operations or cash flow in a particular quarterly or annual period could be materially affected by an ultimate unfavorable resolution of pending litigation and regulatory matters depending, in part, upon the results of operations or cash flow for such period. in light of the unpredictability of the company litigation and regulatory matters, it is also possible that in certain cases an ultimate unfavorable resolution of one or more pending litigation or regulatory matters could have a material adverse effect on the company financial position. we may not be able to protect our intellectual property and may be subject to infringement claims. we rely on a combination of contractual rights with employees and third parties and on copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws to establish and protect our intellectual property. although we endeavor to protect our rights, third parties may infringe or misappropriate our intellectual property. we may have to litigate to enforce and protect our copyrights, trademarks, patents, trade secrets and know-how or to determine their scope, validity or enforceability. this would represent a diversion of resources that may be significant and our efforts may not prove successful. the inability to secure or protect our intellectual property assets could have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to compete. we may be subject to claims by third parties for (i) patent, trademark or copyright infringement; (ii) breach of copyright, trademark or license usage rights; or (iii) misappropriation of trade secrets. any such claims and any resulting litigation could result in significant expense and liability for damages. if we were found to have infringed or misappropriated a third-party patent or other intellectual property right, we could in some circumstances be enjoined from providing certain products or services to our customers or from utilizing and benefiting from certain methods, processes, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets or licenses. alternatively, we could be required to enter into costly licensing arrangements with third parties or implement a costly work around. any of these scenarios could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 52 table of contents operational risks interruption in telecommunication, information technology and other operational systems, or a failure to maintain the security, confidentiality or privacy of sensitive data residing on such systems, could harm our business. we depend heavily on our telecommunication, information technology and other operational systems and on the integrity and timeliness of data we use to run our businesses and service our customers. these systems may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events or circumstances wholly or partly beyond our control. further, we face the risk of operational and technology failures by others, including clearing agents, exchanges and other financial intermediaries and of vendors and parties to which we outsource the provision of services or business operations. if these parties do not perform as anticipated, we may experience operational difficulties, increased costs and other adverse effects on our business. these risks are heightened by our offering of increasingly complex products, such as those that feature automatic asset transfer or re-allocation strategies, and by our employment of complex investment, trading and hedging programs. despite our implementation of a variety of security measures, our information technology and other systems could be subject to physical or electronic break-ins, unauthorized tampering or other security breaches, resulting in a failure to maintain the security, confidentiality or privacy of sensitive data, including personal information relating to customers, or in the misappropriation of our intellectual property or proprietary information. many financial services institutions and companies engaged in data processing have reported breaches in the security of their websites or other systems, some of which have involved sophisticated and targeted attacks intended to obtain unauthorized access to confidential information, destroy data, disrupt or degrade service, sabotage systems or cause other damage, often through the introduction of computer viruses or malware, cyber attacks and other means. despite our efforts to ensure the integrity of our systems, it is possible that we may not be able to anticipate or to implement effective preventive measures against all security breaches of these types, especially because the techniques used change frequently or are not recognized until launched, and because cyber attacks can originate from a wide variety of sources, including third parties outside of prudential such as persons who are involved with organized crime or who may be linked to terrorist organizations or hostile foreign governments, as well as external service providers. those parties may also attempt to fraudulently induce employees, customers or other users of prudential systems to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to our data or that of our customers or clients. in addition, while the company has certain standards for all vendors that provide us services, our vendors, and in turn, their own service providers, may become subject to a security breach, including as a result of their failure to perform in accordance with contractual arrangements. interruption in telecommunication, information technology and other operational systems, or a failure to maintain the security, confidentiality or privacy of sensitive data residing on such systems, whether due to actions by us or others, could delay or disrupt our ability to do business and service our customers, harm our reputation, result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws, subject us to substantial regulatory sanctions and other claims, lead to a loss of customers and revenues or financial loss to our customers and otherwise adversely affect our business. we face risks arising from acquisitions, divestitures and restructurings, including client losses, surrenders and withdrawals, difficulties in integrating and realizing the projected results of acquisitions and contingent liabilities with respect to dispositions. we face a number of risks arising from acquisition transactions, including the risk that, following the acquisition or reorganization of a business, we could experience client losses, surrenders or withdrawals or other results materially different from those we anticipate, as well as difficulties in integrating and realizing the projected results of acquisitions and restructurings and managing the litigation and regulatory matters to which acquired entities are party. we have retained insurance or reinsurance obligations and other contingent liabilities in connection with our divestiture or winding down of various businesses, and our reserves for these obligations and liabilities may prove to be inadequate. these risks may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. 53 table of contents other risks our risk management policies and procedures may prove to be ineffective and leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk, which could adversely affect our businesses or result in losses. we have developed an enterprise-wide risk management framework to mitigate risk and loss to the company, and we maintain policies, procedures and controls intended to identify, measure, monitor, report and analyze the risks to which the company is exposed. there are, however, inherent limitations to risk management strategies because there may exist, or develop in the future, risks that we have not appropriately anticipated or identified. if our risk management framework proves ineffective, the company may suffer unexpected losses and could be materially adversely affected. as our businesses change and the markets in which we operate evolve, our risk management framework may not evolve at the same pace as those changes. as a result, there is a risk that new products or new business strategies may present risks that are not appropriately identified, monitored or managed. in times of market stress, unanticipated market movements or unanticipated claims experience resulting from adverse mortality or morbidity, the effectiveness of our risk management strategies may be limited, resulting in losses to the company. in addition, under difficult or less liquid market conditions, our risk management strategies may not be effective because other market participants may be using the same or similar strategies to manage risk under the same challenging market conditions. in such circumstances, it may be difficult or more expensive for the company to mitigate risk due to the activity of such other market participants. many of our risk management strategies or techniques are based upon historical customer and market behavior and all such strategies and techniques are based to some degree on management subjective judgment. we cannot provide assurance that our risk management framework, including the underlying assumptions or strategies, will be accurate and effective. management of operational, legal and regulatory risks requires, among other things, policies, procedures and controls to record properly and verify a large number of transactions and events, and these policies, procedures and controls may not be fully effective. models are utilized by our businesses and corporate areas primarily to project future cash flows associated with pricing products, calculating reserves and valuing assets, as well as in evaluating risk and determining capital requirements, among other uses. these models may not operate properly and may rely on assumptions and projections that are inherently uncertain. as our businesses continue to grow and evolve, the number and complexity of models we utilize expands, increasing our exposure to error in the design, implementation or use of models, including the associated input data and assumptions. past or future misconduct by our employees or employees of our vendors could result in violations of law by us, regulatory sanctions and/or serious reputational or financial harm and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. there can be no assurance that controls and procedures that we employ, which are designed to monitor associates business decisions and prevent us from taking excessive or inappropriate risks, will be effective. we review our compensation policies and practices as part of our overall risk management program, but it is possible that our compensation policies and practices could inadvertently incentivize excessive or inappropriate risk taking. if our associates take excessive or inappropriate risks, those risks could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. in our investments in which we hold a minority interest, or that are managed by third parties, we lack management and operational control over operations, which may prevent us from taking or causing to be taken actions to protect or increase the value of those investments. in those jurisdictions where we are constrained by law from owning a majority interest in jointly owned operations, our remedies in the event of a breach by a joint venture partner may be limited (e.g., we may have no ability to exercise a call option). 54 table of contents the occurrence of natural or man-made disasters could adversely affect our operations, results of operations and financial condition. the occurrence of natural disasters, including hurricanes, floods, earthquakes, tsunamis, tornadoes, fires, explosions, pandemic disease and man-made disasters, including acts of terrorism and military actions, could adversely affect our operations, results of operations or financial condition, including in the following respects: catastrophic loss of life due to natural or man-made disasters could cause us to pay benefits at higher levels and/or materially earlier than anticipated and could lead to unexpected changes in persistency rates. a man-made or natural disaster, such as an earthquake in japan, could result in disruptions in our operations, losses in our investment portfolio or the failure of our counterparties to perform, or cause significant volatility in global financial markets. a terrorist attack affecting financial institutions in the united states or elsewhere could negatively impact the financial services industry in general and our business operations, investment portfolio and profitability in particular. pandemic disease could have a severe adverse effect on prudential financial business. the potential impact of such a pandemic on prudential financial results of operations and financial position is highly speculative, and would depend on numerous factors, including: the effectiveness of vaccines and the rate of contagion; the regions of the world most affected; the effectiveness of treatment for the infected population; the rates of mortality and morbidity among various segments of the insured population; the collectability of reinsurance; the possible macroeconomic effects of a pandemic on the company asset portfolio; the effect on lapses and surrenders of existing policies, as well as sales of new policies; and many other variables. the above risks are more pronounced in respect of geographic areas, including major metropolitan centers, where we have concentrations of customers, including under group and individual life insurance, concentrations of employees or significant operations, and in respect of countries and regions in which we operate subject to a greater potential threat of military action or conflict. there can be no assurance that our business continuation plans and insurance coverages would be effective in mitigating any negative effects on our operations or profitability in the event of a terrorist attack or other disaster. finally, climate change may increase the frequency and severity of weather related disasters. in addition, climate change regulation may affect the prospects of companies and other entities whose securities we hold and other counterparties, including reinsurers, and affect the value of investments, including real estate investments we hold or manage for others. we cannot predict the long term impacts on us from climate change or related regulation. we have substantial international operations and our international operations face political, legal, operational and other risks that could adversely affect those operations or our profitability. a substantial portion of our revenues and income from continuing operations is derived from our operations outside the u.s., primarily japan and korea. these operations are subject to restrictions on transferring funds out of the countries in which they are located. some of our foreign insurance and investment management operations are, and are likely to continue to be, in emerging markets where this risk, as well as risks of discriminatory regulation, labor issues in connection with workers associations and trade unions, price controls, currency exchange controls, nationalization or expropriation of assets, are heightened. if our business model is not successful in a particular country, we may lose all or most of our investment in building and training our sales force in that country. many of our insurance products sold in international markets, including japan, provide for the buildup of cash values for the policyholder at contractually fixed guaranteed interest rates. actual returns on the underlying investments may not necessarily support the guaranteed interest rates and there may be times when the spread between the actual investment returns and these guaranteed rates of return to the policyholder is negative. this negative spread may not be offset by the mortality, morbidity and expense charges we earn on the products, and will likely be exacerbated in prolonged periods of low interest rates. 55 table of contents our international businesses are subject to the tax laws and regulations of the countries in which they are organized and in which they operate. foreign governments from time to time consider legislation that could increase the amount of taxes that we pay or impact the sales of our products. such changes could negatively impact sales of our products or reduce our profits. our international operations are regulated in the jurisdictions in which they are located or operate. these regulations may apply heightened scrutiny to non-domestic companies, which can reduce our flexibility as to intercompany transactions, investments and other aspects of business operations and adversely affect our liquidity, profitability, and regulatory capital. intense competition, including the impact of government sponsored programs and other actions on us and our competitors, could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our market share or profitability. in each of our businesses we face intense competition from insurance companies, asset managers and diversified financial institutions, both for the ultimate customers for our products and, in many businesses, for distribution through non-affiliated distribution channels. we compete based on a number of factors including brand recognition, reputation, quality of service, quality of investment advice, investment performance of our products, product features, scope of distribution and distribution arrangements, price, perceived financial strength and credit and financial strength ratings. a decline in our competitive position as to one or more of these factors could adversely affect our profitability and assets under management. many of our competitors are large and well-established and some have greater market share or breadth of distribution, offer a broader range of products, services or features, assume a greater level of risk, have lower profitability expectations or have higher financial strength or credit ratings than we do. the proliferation and growth of non-affiliated distribution channels puts pressure on our captive sales channels to increase their productivity and reduce their costs in order to remain competitive, and we run the risk that the marketplace will make a more significant or rapid shift to non-affiliated or direct distribution alternatives than we anticipate or are able to achieve ourselves, potentially adversely affecting our market share and results of operations. in certain international markets in which we operate, we face competition from government owned entities that benefit from pricing or other competitive advantages. the competitive landscape in which we operate may be further affected by government sponsored programs and longer term fiscal policies. competitors that receive governmental financing or other assistance or subsidies, including governmental guarantees of their obligations, may have or obtain pricing or other competitive advantages. competitors that are not subject to the same regulatory framework may also have a pricing advantage, including as a result of lower capital requirements. changes in laws and regulations in response to adverse market and economic conditions may result in us being classified differently than competitors for purposes of capital and other requirements, potentially affecting our ability to compete and the competitive landscape generally. competition for personnel in all of our businesses is intense, including for executive officers and management personnel, prudential agents, life planners, life consultants and other sales personnel, and our investment managers. we devote significant efforts to talent management and development and are subject to the risk that executive, management and other personnel will be hired or recruited by competitors. competition for desirable non-affiliated distribution channels is also intense. the loss of key personnel or non-affiliated distribution channels could have an adverse effect on our business and profitability. regulatory requirements could delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that shareholders might consider in their best interests. various jurisdictions in which our insurance companies are domiciled, including new jersey and japan, must approve any change of control of prudential financial or the insurance companies organized under their laws. federal and state banking laws also generally require regulatory approval for a change in control of prudential financial, or pb&amp;t or prudential trust company. the u.s. federal securities laws could also require reapproval by customers of our investment advisory contracts to manage mutual funds, including mutual funds included in annuity products, upon a change in control. the new jersey business corporation act prohibits certain business combinations with interested shareholders. dodd-frank concentration limits also impose 56 table of contents restrictions on the acquisition of designated financial companies where the resulting entity total liabilities exceed 10% of total u.s. financial company liabilities, which may prohibit certain companies from acquiring prudential financial. in addition, the frb must approve any acquisition by a designated financial company of more than 5% of the voting stock of a company engaged in financial activities with $10 billion or more in assets, such as prudential financial. these regulatory and other restrictions may delay or prevent a potential merger or sale of prudential financial, even if the board of directors decides that it is in the best interests of shareholders to merge or be sold. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 189 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. insurance risk management we define insurance risk as the risk of loss due to deviations in experience compared to our assumptions. our exposure is primarily comprised of: mortality risk, or the risk that death claims are greater than expected, primarily within our individual life, group insurance and international insurance segments, or the risk that policyholders survive longer than expected, primarily within our individual annuities, retirement and international insurance segments; morbidity risk, or the risk that health claims from sickness or disability are greater than expected, primarily within our group insurance and international insurance segments as well as from long term care policies within divested businesses; and policyholder behavior risk, or the risk that our customers persistency experience or utilization experience differs from our expectations. underwriting insurance risk is a fundamental part of our business. we believe our scale provides for the benefits of diversification, both within an insurance risk type (potentially enhancing predictability of experience) and across insurance risk types (for example, to some extent, mortality risk provides a natural hedge against longevity risk). insurance risk mitigation begins with product design, as well as underwriting and pricing standards at the business unit level with corporate oversight. in some cases, the availability and/or credibility of policyholder behavior experience may be limited, which we strive to reflect in the product design and pricing of the product. we provide corporate oversight of the material insurance risk assumptions utilized in pricing and valuation. operational risk management operational risk is defined as the risk of direct or indirect loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes and systems, employee actions, or as the result of external events. operational risks are broad in scope and evident in each business unit and corporate function. we are exposed to operational risk in many ways, including, but not limited to: legal and regulatory compliance risk sales practices risk fraud (internal and external) risk reputational risk employee risk 187 table of contents technology risk, including data security, system failures and processing errors financial reporting risk extreme events risk, such as loss of people and/or infrastructure caused by natural disasters, terrorism, disease, etc. information risk vendor risk each of our businesses and corporate functions is expected to manage its operational risks in compliance with enterprise standards. our framework for identifying, evaluating, monitoring and managing operational risk includes: risk management committees; key risk indicators; risk and control assessments; loss event data collection and analysis; scenario analysis; and resolution of control issues. we also have enterprise policies and standards, including: legal and regulatory/compliance policies, such as those relating to sales practices and supervision, fraud prevention, safeguarding of personal information, protection and use of material non-public information, personal conflicts of interest and outside business activities, anti-money laundering, and gifts and entertainment; human resources policies, such as those relating to hiring, training and terminating the employment of our associates and succession planning; and information technology policies, including those on systems development and information security. we also maintain policies and standards to support the effective management of operational risk, including those concerning new product development, business continuation and disaster recovery, enterprise crisis management, and vendor governance. our internal audit department independently audits key operational controls on a periodic basis to assess the effectiveness of our framework. in order to respond to the threat of security breaches and cyber attacks, the company has developed a program overseen by the chief information security officer and the information security office that is designed to protect and preserve the confidentiality, integrity, and continued availability of all information owned by, or in the care of the company. the program provides for the coordination of various corporate functions and governance groups, and serves as a framework for the execution of responsibilities across businesses and operational roles. the program establishes security standards for the company technological resources, and includes training for employees, contractors and third parties. the company continually engages with the outside security community and monitors cyber threat information. we are also exposed to emerging risks, that is, those conditions, situations or trends that may significantly impact us in the future. by nature, these risks involve a high degree of uncertainty. erm, together with our businesses, monitors and evaluates emerging risks on a regular basis. model risk management models are utilized by our businesses and corporate functions primarily in projecting future cash flows associated with pricing products, calculating reserves and valuing assets, as well as in evaluating risk and determining capital requirements, among other uses. as our businesses continue to grow and evolve, the number and complexity of models we utilize expands, increasing our exposure to error in the design, implementation or use of models, including the associated input data and assumptions. we are mitigating this risk by implementing our model risk policy, which outlines the governance and control requirements over the implementation and use of models, and through the activities of our model risk oversight committee which provides oversight and guidance on issues relating to model risk and the management of that risk. for further information on the risks to which the company is exposed, see item. 1a risk factors. 188 table of contents item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk market risk is defined as the risk of loss resulting from change in the value of assets, liabilities or derivative instruments as a result of absolute or relative changes in factors affecting financial markets, such as changes in interest rates, equity prices, foreign currency exchange rates and credit spreads. to varying degrees, the investment activities supporting all of our products and services generate exposure to market risk. the primary source of our exposure to market risk is other than trading activities conducted primarily in our insurance and annuity operations. the market risk incurred, and our strategies for managing this risk, vary by product. the market risk associated with trading activities is immaterial. for additional information regarding the potential impacts of interest rate and other market fluctuations, as well as general economic and market conditions on our businesses and profitability, see item 1a. risk factors above. for additional information regarding the overall management of our general account investments and our asset mix strategies, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations general account investments management of investments above. for additional information regarding our liquidity and capital resources, which may be impacted by changing market risks, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources above. market risk management risk management includes the identification and measurement of various forms of risk, the establishment of risk thresholds and the creation of processes intended to maintain risks within these thresholds while optimizing returns on the underlying assets or liabilities. risk range limits are established for each type of market risk and are approved by the investment committee of the board of directors and subject to ongoing review. our risk management process utilizes a variety of tools and techniques, including: measures of price sensitivity to market changes (e.g., interest rates, equity index prices, foreign exchange, credit spreads); value-at-risk, or var measures; asset/liability management analytics; stress scenario testing; hedging programs; and risk management governance, including policies, limits and a market risk oversight committee. for additional information regarding our overall risk management framework and governance structure, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations risk management above. market risk mitigation risk mitigation takes three primary forms: managing assets to liability-based limits on net exposure. for example, investment policies identify target durations for assets based on liability characteristics and asset portfolios are managed to within ranges around them. this mitigates potential unanticipated economic losses from interest rate movements. hedging non-strategic exposures. for example, our investment policies generally require hedging currency risk for all cash flows not offset by similarly denominated liabilities. management of portfolio concentration risk. for example, ongoing monitoring and management at the enterprise level of key rate, currency and other concentration risks support diversification efforts to mitigate exposure to individual markets and sources of liquidity strain. 189 table of contents market risk related to interest rates assets that subject us to interest rate risk primarily include fixed maturity securities, commercial mortgage and other loans, and policy loans. liabilities that subject us to interest rate risk primarily include policyholder account balances relating to interest-sensitive life insurance, annuity and other investment-type contracts, certain guaranteed benefit features accounted for as embedded derivatives, and outstanding short-term and long-term debt. changes in interest rates create risk that the resulting changes in asset values will differ from the changes in the value of the liabilities relating to the underlying or hedged products. derivatives that subject us to interest rate risk primarily include interest rate swaps, forwards, futures and options. additionally, changes in interest rates may impact other items including, but not limited to, the following: net investment spread between the amounts that we are required to pay and the rate of return we are able to earn on investments for certain products supported by general account investments; asset-based fees earned on assets under management or contractholder account values; estimated total gross profits and the amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs; net exposure to the guarantees provided under certain products; and capital levels of our regulated entities. we use duration and convexity analyses to measure price sensitivity to interest rate changes. duration measures the relative sensitivity of the fair value of a financial instrument to changes in interest rates. convexity measures the rate of change of duration with respect to changes in interest rates. we use asset/liability management and derivative strategies to manage our interest rate exposure by legal entity by matching the relative sensitivity of asset and liability values to interest rate changes, or controlling duration mismatch of assets and liabilities. we have duration mismatch constraints tailored to the rate sensitivity of products in each entity. in certain markets, primarily outside the u.s. and japan, capital market limitations that hinder our ability to acquire assets that approximate the duration of some of our liabilities are considered in setting the limits. as of december 31, 2014 and 2013, the difference between the duration of assets and the target duration of liabilities in our duration-managed portfolios was within our policy limits. we consider risk-based capital and tax implications as well as current market conditions in our asset/liability management strategies. 190 table of contents we assess the impact of interest rate movements on the value of our financial assets, financial liabilities and derivatives using hypothetical test scenarios that assume either upward or downward 100 basis point parallel shifts in the yield curve from prevailing interest rates, reflecting changes in either credit spreads or the risk-free rate. the following table sets forth the net estimated potential loss in fair value on these financial instruments from a hypothetical 100 basis point upward shift as of december 31, 2014 and 2013. this table is presented on a gross basis and excludes offsetting impacts to insurance liabilities that are not considered financial liabilities under u.s gaap. this scenario results in the greatest net exposure to interest rate risk of the hypothetical scenarios tested at those dates. while the test scenario is for illustrative purposes only and does not reflect our expectations regarding future interest rates or the performance of fixed-income markets, it is a near-term, reasonably possible hypothetical change that illustrates the potential impact of such events. these test scenarios do not measure the changes in value that could result from non-parallel shifts in the yield curve which we would expect to produce different changes in discount rates for different maturities. as a result, the actual loss in fair value from a 100 basis point change in interest rates could be different from that indicated by these calculations. the estimated changes in fair values do not include separate account assets. as of december 31, 2014 as of december 31, 2013(1) notional fair value hypothetical change in fair value notional fair value hypothetical change in fair value (in millions) financial assets with interest rate risk: fixed maturities(2) $ 328,942 $ (27,812 ) $ 314,015 $ (25,834 ) commercial mortgage and other loans 49,097 (2,176 ) 42,805 (1,850 ) derivatives: swaps $ 224,345 6,316 (5,690 ) $ 204,626 (2,268 ) (3,719 ) futures 32,357 6 102 34,723 6 12 options 85,354 952 (337 ) 86,657 454 344 forwards 22,517 (165 ) (27 ) 15,108 157 (60 ) synthetic gics(3) 74,707 6 0 78,110 8 0 variable annuity and other living benefit feature embedded derivatives(4) (8,182 ) 5,560 (441 ) 3,097 financial liabilities with interest rate risk(5): short-term and long-term debt (25,974 ) 3,039 (28,286 ) 2,392 limited recourse notes issued by consolidated vies(6) (18 ) 0 (39 ) 0 investment contracts (96,375 ) 3,480 (96,600 ) 3,410 net estimated potential loss $ (23,861 ) $ (22,208 ) (1) prior periods have been revised to include the gross notional amount and fair value of derivative contracts used in a broker-dealer capacity. (2) includes fixed maturities classified as trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities and other fixed maturities classified as trading securities under u.s. gaap, but are held for other than trading activities in our segments that offer insurance, retirement and annuities products. (3) the gross notional amount as of december 31, 2013, has been revised from $60,758 million to $78,110 million to correct the previously reported amount. this amount does not impact the consolidated financial statements. (4) reflects only the gross change on the embedded derivatives and excludes any offsetting impact of derivative instruments purchased to hedge such changes. (5) excludes approximately $259 billion and $248 billion as of december 31, 2014 and december 31, 2013, respectively, of insurance reserve and deposit liabilities which are not considered financial liabilities. we believe that the interest rate sensitivities of these insurance liabilities would serve as an offset to the net interest rate risk of the financial assets and liabilities, including investment contracts. (6) see note 5 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding consolidated vies. our net estimated potential loss in fair value as of december 31, 2014 increased from december 31, 2013, reflecting increases in our fixed maturity securities and commercial mortgage loan portfolios in 2014, primarily driven by a decrease in u.s. interest rates. this increase was partially offset by a decrease in net estimated potential loss in fair value from variable annuity and other living benefits, reflecting a higher liability driven by a decline in interest rates. under u.s. gaap, the fair value of the embedded derivatives for certain variable annuity and other living benefit features, reflected in the table above, includes the impact of the market perception of our own non- 191 table of contents performance risk ( npr ). the additional credit spread over libor rates incorporated into the discount rate as of december 31, 2014, to reflect npr in the valuation of these embedded derivatives, ranged from 0 to 130 basis points. the following table provides a demonstration of the sensitivity of these embedded derivatives to our npr credit spread by quantifying the adjustments that would be required assuming both a 50 basis point parallel increase and decrease in our npr credit spreads. while the information below is for illustrative purposes only and does not reflect our expectations regarding our credit spreads, it is a near-term, reasonably possible change that illustrates the potential impact of such a change. this information considers only the direct effect of changes in our credit spread on operating results due to the change in these embedded derivatives, and not changes in any other assumptions such as persistency, utilization and mortality, or the effect of these changes on dac or other balances. december 31, 2014 december 31, 2013 (increase) / decrease in embedded derivative liability (increase) / decrease in embedded derivative liability (in millions) increase in credit spread by 50 basis points $ 1,814 $ 548 decrease in credit spread by 50 basis points $ (2,203 ) $ (769 ) the increase in sensitivity to changes in credit spreads was primarily driven by an increase in the base liability for certain variable annuity and other living benefits features, as discussed above. for an additional discussion of our variable annuity optional living benefit guarantees accounted for as embedded derivatives and related derivatives used to hedge the changes in fair value of these embedded derivatives, see market risk related to certain variable annuity products below. for additional information about the key estimates and assumptions used in our determination of fair value, see note 20 to the consolidated financial statements below. for information on the impacts of a sustained low interest rate environment, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations executive summary industry trends impact of a low interest rate environment above. market risk related to equity prices we have exposure to equity price risk through our investments in equity securities, equity-based derivatives and certain variable annuity and other living benefit feature embedded derivatives. our equity-based derivatives primarily hedge the equity price risk embedded in the living benefit feature embedded derivatives, and are also part of our capital hedging program. changes in equity prices create risk that the resulting changes in asset values will differ from the changes in the value of the liabilities relating to the underlying or hedged products. additionally, changes in equity prices may impact other items including, but not limited to, the following: asset-based fees earned on assets under management or contractholder account value estimated total gross profits and the amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs net exposure to the guarantees provided under certain products we manage investment equity price risk against benchmarks in respective markets. we benchmark our return on equity holdings against a blend of market indices, mainly the s&amp;p 500 and russell 2000 for u.s. equities. we benchmark foreign equities against the tokyo price index, or topix, and the msci eafe, a market index of european, australian, and far eastern equities. we target price sensitivities that approximate those of the benchmark indices. we estimate our investment equity price risk from a hypothetical 10% decline in equity benchmark market levels and measure this risk in terms of the decline in fair market value of equity securities we hold. the following table sets forth the net estimated potential loss in fair value from such a decline as of december 31, 2014 and 2013. while these scenarios are for illustrative purposes only and do not reflect our expectations regarding future performance of equity markets or of our equity portfolio, they represent near-term reasonably possible hypothetical changes that illustrate the potential impact of such events. these scenarios consider only the direct impact on fair value of declines in equity benchmark market levels and not changes in asset-based fees recognized as revenue, changes in our estimates of total gross profits used as a basis for amortizing deferred policy acquisition and other costs, or changes in any other assumptions such as market volatility or mortality, 192 table of contents utilization or persistency rates in our variable annuity contracts that could also impact the fair value of our living benefit features. in addition, these scenarios do not reflect the impact of basis risk, such as potential differences in the performance of the investment funds underlying the variable annuity products relative to the market indices we use as a basis for developing our hedging strategy. the impact of basis risk could result in larger differences between the change in fair value of the equity-based derivatives and the related living benefit features in comparison to these scenarios. in calculating these amounts, we exclude separate account equity securities. as of december 31, 2014 as of december 31, 2013 notional fair value hypothetical change in fair value notional fair value hypothetical change in fair value (in millions) equity securities(1) $ 12,152 $ (1,215 ) $ 12,287 $ (1,229 ) equity-based derivatives(2)(3) $ 73,138 69 1,617 $ 73,047 (85 ) 1,170 variable annuity and other living benefit feature embedded derivatives(3)(4) (8,182 ) (1,193 ) (441 ) (852 ) net estimated potential loss $ (791 ) $ (911 ) (1) includes equity securities classified as trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities and other equity securities classified as trading securities under u.s. gaap, but are held for other than trading activities in our segments that offer insurance, retirement and annuities products. (2) prior periods have been revised to include the gross notional amount and fair value of derivative contracts used in a broker-dealer capacity. (3) the notional and fair value of equity-based derivatives and the fair value of variable annuity and other living benefit feature embedded derivatives are also reflected in amounts under market risk related to interest rates above, and are not cumulative. (4) reflects only the gross change on the embedded derivatives, and excludes any offsetting impact of derivative instruments purchased to hedge such changes. the net estimated potential loss decreased by $120 million. the estimated equity price risk associated with the living benefit features accounted for as embedded derivatives increased due to an increase in the value of the liability; however, this was more than offset by a change in risk associated with equity-based derivatives used to hedge these features. for a discussion of changes in derivatives, see derivatives below. for an additional discussion of our variable annuity optional living benefit guarantees accounted for as embedded derivatives and related derivatives used to hedge the changes in fair value of these embedded derivatives, see market risk related to certain variable annuity products below. for additional information regarding our capital hedging program, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources below. market risk related to foreign currency exchange rates as a u.s.-based company with significant business operations outside of the u.s., particularly in japan, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk related to these operations, as well as to our general account investment portfolio and other proprietary investment portfolios. for our international insurance operations, changes in foreign currency exchange rates create risk that we may experience volatility in the u.s. dollar-equivalent earnings and equity of these operations. we actively manage this risk through various hedging strategies, including the use of foreign currency hedges and through holding u.s. dollar-denominated securities in the investment portfolios of certain of these operations. additionally, our japanese insurance operations offer a variety of non-yen denominated products which are supported by investments in corresponding currencies. while these non-yen denominated assets are economically matched, the accounting may differ for changes in the value of these assets and liabilities due to moves in foreign currency exchange rates, resulting in volatility in reported u.s. gaap earnings. for certain of our international insurance operations outside of japan, we elect to not hedge the risk of changes in our equity investments due to foreign exchange rate movements. for further information, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations international insurance division impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements on earnings u.s. gaap earnings impact of products denominated in non-local currencies above. 193 table of contents for our domestic general account investment portfolios supporting our u.s. insurance operations and other proprietary investment portfolios, our foreign currency exchange rate risk arises primarily from investments that are denominated in foreign currencies. we manage this risk by hedging substantially all domestic foreign currency-denominated fixed-income investments into u.s. dollars. we generally do not hedge all of the foreign currency risk of our investments in equity securities of unaffiliated foreign entities. we manage our foreign currency exchange rate risks within specified policy limits, and by using var-based analysis. this statistical technique estimates, at a specified confidence level, the potential pre-tax loss in portfolio market value that could occur over an assumed time horizon due to adverse market movements. for our equity investment in international subsidiaries, excluding our japanese insurance operations, and the foreign currency-denominated investments held in our domestic general account portfolio, we estimate the potential loss based on end of period and average month-end var, each measured at a 95% confidence level and using a one-month time horizon. these calculations use historical price volatilities and correlation data at a 95% confidence level. the following table sets forth these measures as of the periods indicated. as of december 31, 2014 as of december 31, 2013 fair value estimated var average var fair value estimated var average var (in millions) unhedged portion of equity investment in international subsidiaries and foreign currency-denominated investments in domestic general account portfolio(1) $ 4,726 $ (110 ) $ (93 ) $ 5,202 $ (99 ) $ (115 ) (1) excludes assets and liabilities subject to the impact of foreign exchange rate movements that are hedged with externally-purchased derivatives or are economically matched, as discussed above. for derivatives used to hedge the anticipated level of u.s. dollar-equivalent earnings of our international operations, the potential loss based on var, measured at a 95% confidence level and using a one-month time horizon, was $92 million and $68 million as of december 31, 2014 and december 31, 2013, respectively. for additional information, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations general account investments portfolio composition and management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations results of operations for financial services businesses by segment international insurance division above. although var models are a recognized tool for risk management, they have inherent limitations, including reliance on historical data that may not be indicative of future market conditions or trading patterns. accordingly, var models should not be viewed as a predictor of future results. we may incur losses that could be materially in excess of the amounts indicated by the models on a particular trading day or over a period of time, and there have been instances when results have fallen outside the values generated by our var models. a var model does not estimate the greatest possible loss. the results of these models and analysis thereof are subject to the judgment of our risk management personnel. derivatives we use derivative financial instruments primarily to reduce market risk from changes in interest rates, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates, including their use to alter interest rate or foreign currency exposures arising from mismatches between assets and liabilities. our derivatives primarily include swaps, futures, options and forward contracts that are exchange-traded or contracted in the over-the-counter market. our derivatives also include interest rate guarantees we provide on our synthetic gic products. synthetic gics simulate the performance of traditional insurance-related gics but are accounted for as derivatives under u.s. gaap due to the fact that the policyholders own the underlying assets, and we only provide a book value wrap on the customers funds, which are held in a client-owned trust. since these wraps provide payment of guaranteed principal and interest to the customer, changes in interest rates create risk that declines in the market value of customers funds would increase our net exposure to these guarantees; however, this risk is minimal due to several mitigating factors. our obligation is limited to payments that are in excess of the existing customers fund value. additionally, we have the ability to periodically reset crediting rates, subject to a 0% minimum floor, as well as the ability to increase prices. further, our contract provisions provide that, although participants may 194 table of contents withdraw funds at book value, contractholder withdrawals may only occur at market value immediately, or at book value over time. these factors, among others, result in these contracts experiencing minimal changes in fair value, despite a more significant notional value. our derivatives also include those that are embedded in certain financial instruments, and primarily relate to certain optional living benefit features associated with our variable annuity products, as discussed in more detail in market risk related to certain variable annuity products below. the notional amount of derivative instruments increased $20 billion in 2014, from $419 billion as of december 31, 2013 to $439 billion as of december 31, 2014. the increase was primarily related to our variable annuity and foreign exchange hedging activities. notional amounts are presented on a gross basis and include derivatives used to offset existing positions. for additional information on our derivative activities, see note 21 to the consolidated financial statements below. market risk related to certain variable annuity products the primary risk exposures of our variable annuity contracts relate to actual deviations from, or changes to, the assumptions used in the original pricing of these products, including capital markets assumptions, such as equity market returns, interest rates and market volatility and actuarial assumptions. for our capital markets assumptions, we hedge or limit our exposure to the risk created by capital markets fluctuations through a combination of product design elements, such as an automatic rebalancing element and inclusion of certain optional living benefits in our living benefits hedging program. certain variable annuity optional living benefit features are accounted for as an embedded derivative and recorded at fair value. the market risk sensitivities associated with u.s. gaap values of both the embedded derivatives and the related derivatives used to hedge the changes in fair value of these embedded derivatives are provided under market risk related to interest rates and market risk related to equity prices above. for additional information regarding our risk management strategies, including our living benefit hedging program and other product design elements, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations results of operations for financial services businesses by segment individual annuities above. 195 table of contents