quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company is exposed to financial market risks associated with interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices. in the normal course of business and in accordance with our policies, we manage these risks through a variety of strategies, which may include the use of derivative financial and commodity instruments to hedge our underlying exposures. our policies prohibit the use of derivative instruments for trading purposes, and we have procedures in place to monitor and control their use. interest rate risk we have a market risk exposure to changes in interest rates, principally in the united states. we attempt to minimize this risk and lower our overall borrowing costs through the utilization of derivative financial instruments, primarily interest rate swaps. these swaps are entered into with financial institutions and have reset dates and critical terms that match those of the underlying debt. accordingly, any change in market value associated with interest rate swaps is offset by the opposite market impact on the related debt. at december 27, 2003 and december 28, 2002, a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in short-term interest rates would result in a reduction of approximately $3 million and $6 million, respectively, in annual income before income taxes. the estimated reductions are based upon the level of variable rate debt and assume no changes in the volume or composition of debt. in addition, the fair value of our derivative financial instruments at december 27, 2003 and december 28, 2002 would decrease approximately $5 million and $8 million, respectively. the fair value of our senior unsecured notes at december 27, 2003 and december 28, 2002 would decrease approximately $87 million and $93 million, respectively. fair value was determined by discounting the projected cash flows. foreign currency exchange rate risk international operating profit constitutes approximately 36% of our operating profit in 2003, excluding unallocated and corporate expenses. in addition, the company net asset exposure (defined as foreign currency assets less foreign currency liabilities) totaled approximately $1.3 billion as of december 27, 2003. operating in international markets exposes the company to movements in foreign currency exchange rates. the company primary exposures result from our operations in asia-pacific, the americas and europe. changes in foreign currency exchange rates would impact the translation of our investments in foreign operations, the fair value of our foreign currency denominated financial instruments and our reported foreign currency denominated earnings and cash flows. for the fiscal year ended december 27, 2003, operating profit would have decreased $49 million if all foreign currencies had uniformly weakened 10% relative to the u.s. dollar. the estimated reduction assumes no changes in sales volumes or local currency sales or input prices. we attempt to minimize the exposure related to our investments in foreign operations by financing those investments with local currency debt when practical and holding cash in local currencies when possible. in addition, we attempt to minimize the exposure related to foreign currency denominated financial instruments by purchasing goods and services from third parties in local currencies when practical. consequently, foreign currency denominated financial instruments consist primarily of intercompany short-term receivables and payables. at times, we utilize forward contracts to reduce our exposure related to these foreign currency denominated financial instruments. the notional amount and maturity dates of these contracts match those of the underlying receivables or payables such that our foreign currency exchange risk related to these instruments is eliminated. commodity price risk we are subject to volatility in food costs as a result of market risk associated with commodity prices. our ability to recover increased costs through higher pricing is, at times, limited by the competitive environment in which we operate. we manage our exposure to this risk primarily through pricing agreements as well as, on a limited basis, commodity 39 future and option contracts. commodity future and option contracts entered into for the fiscal years ended december 27, 2003, and december 28, 2002, did not significantly impact our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. cautionary statements from time to time, in both written reports and oral statements, we present forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27a of the securities act of 1933, as amended, and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended. the statements include those identified by such words as may, will, expect, project, anticipate, believe, plan and other similar terminology. these forward-looking statements reflect our current expectations regarding future events and operating and financial performance and are based upon data available at the time of the statements. actual results involve risks and uncertainties, including both those specific to the company and those specific to the industry, and could differ materially from expectations. company risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, potentially substantial tax contingencies related to the spin-off, which, if they occur, require us to indemnify pepsico, inc.; changes in effective tax rates; our debt leverage and the attendant potential restriction on our ability to borrow in the future; potential unfavorable variances between estimated and actual liabilities; our ability to secure distribution of products and equipment to our restaurants on favorable economic terms and our ability to ensure adequate supply of restaurant products and equipment in our stores; effects and outcomes of legal claims involving the company; the effectiveness of operating initiatives and advertising and promotional efforts; the ongoing financial viability of our franchisees and licensees; the success of our refranchising strategy; volatility of actuarially determined losses and loss estimates; and adoption of new or changes in accounting policies and practices including pronouncements promulgated by standard setting bodies. industry risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, economic and political conditions in the countries and territories where we operate, including effects of war and terrorist activities; changes in legislation and governmental regulation; new product and concept development by us and/or our food industry competitors; changes in commodity, labor, and other operating costs; changes in competition in the food industry; publicity which may impact our business and/or industry; severe weather conditions; volatility of commodity costs; increases in minimum wage and other operating costs; availability and cost of land and construction; consumer preferences, spending patterns and demographic trends; political or economic instability in local markets and changes in currency exchange and interest rates; the impact that any widespread illness or general health concern may have on our business and/or the economy of the countries in which we operate. 40quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the company is exposed to financial market risks associated with interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices. in the normal course of business and in accordance with our policies, we manage these risks through a variety of strategies, which may include the use of derivative financial and commodity instruments to hedge our underlying exposures. our policies prohibit the use of derivative instruments for trading purposes, and we have procedures in place to monitor and control their use. interest rate risk we have a market risk exposure to changes in interest rates, principally in the united states. we attempt to minimize this risk and lower our overall borrowing costs through the utilization of derivative financial instruments, primarily interest rate swaps. these swaps are entered into with financial institutions and have reset dates and critical terms that match those of the underlying debt. accordingly, any change in market value associated with interest rate swaps is offset by the opposite market impact on the related debt. at december 25, 2004 and december 27, 2003, a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in short-term interest rates would result, over the following twelve-month period, in a reduction of approximately $6 million and $3 million, respectively, in income before income taxes. the estimated reductions are based upon the level of variable rate debt and assume no changes in the volume or composition of debt. in addition, the fair value of our derivative financial instruments at december 25, 2004 and december 27, 2003 would decrease approximately $51 million and $5 million, respectively. the fair value of our senior unsecured notes at december 25, 2004 and december 27, 2003 would decrease approximately $76 million and $87 million, respectively. fair value was determined by discounting the projected cash flows. 42 foreign currency exchange rate risk international operating profit constitutes approximately 41% of our operating profit in 2004, excluding unallocated income (expenses). in addition, the company net asset exposure (defined as foreign currency assets less foreign currency liabilities) totaled approximately $1.5 billion as of december 25, 2004. operating in international markets exposes the company to movements in foreign currency exchange rates. the company primary exposures result from our operations in asia-pacific, the americas and europe. changes in foreign currency exchange rates would impact the translation of our investments in foreign operations, the fair value of our foreign currency denominated financial instruments and our reported foreign currency denominated earnings and cash flows. for the fiscal year ended december 25, 2004, operating profit would have decreased $59 million if all foreign currencies had uniformly weakened 10% relative to the u.s. dollar. the estimated reduction assumes no changes in sales volumes or local currency sales or input prices. we attempt to minimize the exposure related to our investments in foreign operations by financing those investments with local currency debt when practical and holding cash in local currencies when possible. in addition, we attempt to minimize the exposure related to foreign currency denominated financial instruments by purchasing goods and services from third parties in local currencies when practical. consequently, foreign currency denominated financial instruments consist primarily of intercompany short-term receivables and payables. at times, we utilize forward contracts to reduce our exposure related to these intercompany short-term receivables and payables. the notional amount and maturity dates of these contracts match those of the underlying receivables or payables such that our foreign currency exchange risk related to these instruments is eliminated. commodity price risk we are subject to volatility in food costs as a result of market risk associated with commodity prices. our ability to recover increased costs through higher pricing is, at times, limited by the competitive environment in which we operate. we manage our exposure to this risk primarily through pricing agreements as well as, on a limited basis, commodity future and option contracts. commodity future and option contracts entered into for the fiscal years ended december 25, 2004, and december 27, 2003, did not significantly impact our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. cautionary statements from time to time, in both written reports and oral statements, we present forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27a of the securities act of 1933, as amended, and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended. the statements include those identified by such words as may, will, expect, project, anticipate, believe, plan and other similar terminology. these forward-looking statements reflect our current expectations regarding future events and operating and financial performance and are based upon data available at the time of the statements. actual results involve risks and uncertainties, including both those specific to the company and those specific to the industry, and could differ materially from expectations. company risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, potentially substantial tax contingencies related to the spin-off, which, if they occur, require us to indemnify pepsico, inc.; changes in effective tax rates; our debt leverage and the attendant potential restriction on our ability to borrow in the future; potential unfavorable variances between estimated and actual liabilities; our ability to secure distribution of products and equipment to our restaurants on favorable economic terms and our ability to ensure adequate supply of restaurant products and equipment in our stores; effects and outcomes of legal claims involving the company; the effectiveness of operating initiatives and advertising and promotional efforts; the ongoing financial viability of our franchisees and licensees; the success of our refranchising strategy; volatility of actuarially determined losses and loss estimates; and adoption of new or changes in accounting policies and practices including pronouncements promulgated by standard setting bodies. 43 industry risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, economic and political conditions in the countries and territories where we operate, including effects of war and terrorist activities; changes in legislation and governmental regulation; new product and concept development by us and/or our food industry competitors; changes in commodity, labor, and other operating costs; changes in competition in the food industry; publicity which may impact our business and/or industry; severe weather conditions; volatility of commodity costs; increases in minimum wage and other operating costs; availability and cost of land and construction; consumer preferences or perceptions concerning the products of the company and/or our competitors, spending patterns and demographic trends; political or economic instability in local markets and changes in currency exchange and interest rates; and the impact that any widespread illness or general health concern may have on our business and/or the economy of the countries in which we operate. 44risk factors . we face a variety of risks that are inherent in our business and our industry, including operational, legal, regulatory and product risks. the following are some of the more significant factors that could affect our business and our results of operations. other factors may exist that the company cannot anticipate or that the company does not consider to be significant based on information that is currently available. health concerns arising from outbreaks of avian flu may have an adverse effect on our business. in 2004 and 2005, asian and european countries experienced outbreaks of avian flu, and some commentators have hypothesized that further outbreaks could occur and reach pandemic levels. while fully-cooked chicken has been determined to be safe for consumption, and while the company has taken and continues to take measures to anticipate and minimize the effect of these outbreaks on our business, any further outbreaks could adversely affect the price and availability of poultry and cause customers to shift their preferences. in addition, outbreaks on a widespread basis could also affect our ability to attract and retain employees. food safety and food-borne illness concerns may have an adverse effect on our business. the company considers food safety a top priority and dedicates substantial resources to ensure that our customers enjoy safe, quality food products. however, food-borne illnesses (such as e. coli, hepatitis a, trichinosis or salmonella) and food safety issues have occurred in the past, and could occur in the future. if such instances of food-borne illness or other food safety issues were to occur, whether at our restaurants or those of our competitors, negative publicity could result which could adversely affect sales and profitability. if our customers become ill from food-borne illnesses, we could also be forced to temporarily close some restaurants. additionally, the occurrence of food-borne illnesses or food safety issues could adversely affect the price and availability of affected ingredients. finally, like other companies in the restaurant industry, some of our products may contain genetically engineered food products; increased regulation of and opposition to genetically engineered food products have on occasion and may in the future force us to use alternative sources at increased costs. our foreign operations subject us to risks that could negatively affect our business. our restaurants are operated in numerous countries and territories and our foreign business is significant. we intend to further expand our international operations over the next several years. as a result, our business and operations are 10 subject to the risk of changes in economic conditions, tax systems, consumer preferences, social conditions and political conditions inherent in foreign operations, including changes in the laws and policies that govern foreign investment in countries where our restaurants are operated, as well as changes in united states laws and regulations relating to foreign trade and investment. in addition, our results of operations and the value of our foreign assets are affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, which may favorably or adversely affect reported earnings. there can be no assurance as to the future effect of any such changes on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. mainland china is one of our fastest developing markets. any significant or prolonged deterioration in u.s.-china relations could adversely affect our china business. our growing investments in our china operations will increase our exposure in this market. many of the risks and uncertainties of doing business in china are solely within the control of the chinese government. china government regulates the scope of our foreign investments and business conducted within china. although management believes it has structured our china operations to comply with local laws, there are uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of laws and regulations and the enforceability of intellectual property and contract rights in china. if we were unable to enforce our intellectual property and contract rights in china, our business would be adversely impacted. changes in commodity and other operating costs or supply chain and business disruptions could adversely affect our results of operations. while the company takes measures to anticipate and react to changes in food and supply costs, any increase in the prices of the ingredients most critical to our menu, such as beef, chicken, cheese and produce, among others, could adversely affect our operating results. although we try to manage the impact that these fluctuations have on our operating results, we remain susceptible to increases in food costs as a result of factors beyond our control, such as general economic conditions, seasonal fluctuations, weather conditions, demand, food safety concerns, product recalls, labor disputes and government regulations. in addition to food, we purchase electricity, oil and natural gas needed to operate our restaurants, and suppliers purchase gasoline needed to transport food and supplies to us. any significant increase in energy costs could adversely affect our business through higher rates and the imposition of fuel surcharges by our suppliers. because we provide moderately priced food, we may choose not to, or be unable to, pass along commodity price increases to our customers. additionally, significant increases in gasoline prices could result in a decrease of customer traffic at our restaurants. we rely on third party distribution companies to deliver food and supplies to our stores. interruption of distribution services due to financial distress or other issues could impact our operations. our operating costs also include premiums that we pay for our insurance (including workers compensation, general liability, property and health) which may increase over time, thereby further increasing our costs. finally, our industry is susceptible to natural disasters which could result in restaurant closures and business disruptions. our operating results are closely tied to the success of our concepts franchisees. as a result of our franchising programs, our operating results are dependent upon the sales volumes and viability of our franchisees. any significant inability of our franchisees to operate successfully could adversely affect our operating results. franchisees may not have access to the financial or management resources that they need to open or continue operating the restaurants contemplated by their franchise agreements with us, or be able to find suitable sites on which to develop them. in addition, franchisees may not be able to negotiate acceptable lease or purchase terms for the sites, obtain the necessary permits and government approvals or meet construction schedules. our franchisees generally depend upon financing from banks and other financial institutions in order to construct and open new restaurants. in some instances, financing has been difficult to obtain for some operators. any of these problems could slow our planned growth. we could be party to litigation that could adversely affect us by increasing our expenses or subjecting us to material money damages and other remedies. as a restaurant industry participant, we are susceptible to claims filed by customers alleging that we are responsible for an illness or injury they suffered at or after a visit to our restaurants. regardless of whether any claims against us are valid, or 11 whether we are ultimately held liable, such litigation may be expensive to defend and may divert time and money away from our operations and hurt our performance. a judgment for significant monetary damages in excess of any insurance coverage could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. any adverse publicity resulting from these allegations may also adversely affect our reputation, which in turn could adversely affect our results. in addition, the restaurant industry has been subject to claims that relate to the nutritional content of food products, as well as claims that the menus and practices of restaurant chains have led to the obesity of some guests. we may also be subject to this type of claim in the future and, even if we are not, publicity about these matters (particularly directed at the quick service and fast-casual segments of the industry) may harm our reputation and adversely affect our results. changes in governmental regulations may adversely affect our business operations. we and our franchisees are subject to various federal, state and local regulations. each of our restaurants is subject to state and local licensing and regulation by health, sanitation, food and workplace safety and other agencies. requirements of local authorities with respect to zoning, land use, licensing, permitting and environmental factors could delay or prevent development of new restaurants in particular locations. we are subject to the u.s. americans with disabilities act and similar state laws that give civil rights protections to individuals with disabilities in the context of employment, public accommodations and other areas. the expenses associated with any facilities modifications required by these laws could be material. our operations are also subject to the u.s. fair labor standards act, which governs such matters as minimum wages, overtime and other working conditions, family leave mandates and a variety of similar state laws that govern these and other employment law matters. the compliance costs associated with these laws and evolving regulations could be substantial. we may not attain our target development goals. we are pursuing a disciplined growth strategy, which, to be successful, will depend in large part on our ability and the ability of our franchisees to upgrade existing restaurants and open new restaurants, and to operate these restaurants on a profitable basis. we cannot guarantee that we, or our franchisees, will be able to achieve our expansion goals or that new, upgraded or converted restaurants will be operated profitably. further, there is no assurance that any restaurant we open or convert will obtain operating results similar to those of our existing restaurants. the success of our planned expansion, including our multibranding initiatives, will depend upon numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control. the restaurant industry in which we operate is highly competitive. the restaurant industry in which we operate is highly competitive with respect to price and quality of food products, new product development, advertising levels and promotional initiatives, customer service, reputation, restaurant location, and attractiveness and maintenance of properties. if our restaurants and franchised restaurants are unable to compete successfully with other restaurants in new and existing markets, our business could be adversely affected. in the restaurant industry, labor is a primary operating cost component. competition for qualified employees could also require us to pay higher wages to attract a sufficient number of employees. in addition, our success depends to a significant extent on numerous factors affecting discretionary consumer spending, including economic conditions, disposable consumer income and consumer confidence. adverse changes in these factors could reduce guest traffic or impose practical limits on pricing, either of which could harm our results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the company is exposed to financial market risks associated with interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices. in the normal course of business and in accordance with our policies, we manage these risks through a variety of strategies, which may include the use of derivative financial and commodity instruments to hedge our underlying exposures. our policies prohibit the use of derivative instruments for trading purposes, and we have procedures in place to monitor and control their use. interest rate risk we have a market risk exposure to changes in interest rates, principally in the united states. we attempt to minimize this risk and lower our overall borrowing costs through the utilization of derivative financial instruments, primarily interest rate swaps. these swaps are entered into with financial institutions and have reset dates and critical terms that match those of the underlying debt. accordingly, any change in market value associated with interest rate swaps is offset by the opposite market impact on the related debt. at december 31, 2005 and december 25, 2004, a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in short-term interest rates would result, over the following twelve-month period, in a reduction of approximately $7 million and $6 million, respectively, in income before income taxes. the estimated reductions are based upon the level of variable rate debt and assume no changes in the volume or composition of debt. in addition, the fair value of our derivative financial instruments at december 31, 2005 and december 25, 2004 would decrease approximately $39 million and $51 million, respectively. the fair value of our senior unsecured notes at december 31, 2005 and december 25, 2004 would decrease approximately $59 million and $76 million, respectively. fair value was determined by discounting the projected cash flows. foreign currency exchange rate risk the combined international division and china division operating profits constitute approximately 43% of our operating profit in 2005, excluding unallocated income (expenses). in addition, the company net asset exposure (defined as foreign currency assets less foreign currency liabilities) totaled approximately $1.3 billion as of december 31, 2005. operating in international markets exposes the company to movements in foreign currency exchange rates. the company primary exposures result from our operations in asia-pacific, the americas and europe. changes in foreign 51 currency exchange rates would impact the translation of our investments in foreign operations, the fair value of our foreign currency denominated financial instruments and our reported foreign currency denominated earnings and cash flows. for the fiscal year ended december 31, 2005, operating profit would have decreased $70 million if all foreign currencies had uniformly weakened 10% relative to the u.s. dollar. the estimated reduction assumes no changes in sales volumes or local currency sales or input prices. we attempt to minimize the exposure related to our investments in foreign operations by financing those investments with local currency debt when practical. in addition, we attempt to minimize the exposure related to foreign currency denominated financial instruments by purchasing goods and services from third parties in local currencies when practical. consequently, foreign currency denominated financial instruments consist primarily of intercompany short-term receivables and payables. at times, we utilize forward contracts to reduce our exposure related to these intercompany short-term receivables and payables. the notional amount and maturity dates of these contracts match those of the underlying receivables or payables such that our foreign currency exchange risk related to these instruments is eliminated. commodity price risk we are subject to volatility in food costs as a result of market risk associated with commodity prices. our ability to recover increased costs through higher pricing is, at times, limited by the competitive environment in which we operate. we manage our exposure to this risk primarily through pricing agreements as well as, on a limited basis, commodity future and option contracts. commodity future and option contracts entered into for the fiscal years ended december 31, 2005, and december 25, 2004, did not significantly impact our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. cautionary statements from time to time, in both written reports and oral statements, we present forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27a of the securities act of 1933, as amended, and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended. the statements include those identified by such words as may, will, expect, project, anticipate, believe, plan and other similar terminology. these forward-looking statements reflect our current expectations regarding future events and operating and financial performance and are based upon data available at the time of the statements. actual results involve risks and uncertainties, including both those specific to the company and those specific to the industry, and could differ materially from expectations. accordingly, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. company risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, changes in effective tax rates; potential unfavorable variances between estimated and actual liabilities; our ability to secure distribution of products and equipment to our restaurants on favorable economic terms and our ability to ensure adequate supply of restaurant products and equipment in our stores; unexpected disruptions in our supply chain; effects and outcomes of any pending or future legal claims involving the company; the effectiveness of operating initiatives and marketing and advertising and promotional efforts; our ability to continue to recruit and motivate qualified restaurant personnel; the ongoing financial viability of our franchisees and licensees; the success of our refranchising strategy; the success of our strategies for international development and operations; volatility of actuarially determined losses and loss estimates; and adoption of new or changes in accounting policies and practices including pronouncements promulgated by standard setting bodies. industry risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, economic and political conditions in the countries and territories where we operate, including effects of war and terrorist activities; new legislation and governmental regulations or changes in laws and regulations and the consequent impact on our business; new product and concept development by us and/or our food industry competitors; changes in commodity, labor, and other operating costs; changes in competition in the food industry; publicity which may impact our business and/or industry; severe weather conditions; volatility of commodity costs; increases in minimum wage and other operating costs; availability and cost of land and construction; consumer preferences or perceptions concerning the products of the company and/or our competitors, spending patterns and demographic trends; political or economic instability in local markets and changes in currency exchange and interest rates; and the impact that any widespread illness or general health concern may have on our business and/or the economy of the countries in which we operate. 52risk factors . we face a variety of risks that are inherent in our business and our industry, including operational, legal, regulatory and product risks. the following are some of the more significant factors that could affect our business and our results of operations. other factors may exist that the company cannot anticipate or that the company does not consider to be significant based on information that is currently available. health concerns arising from outbreaks of avian flu may have an adverse effect on our business. asian and european countries have experienced outbreaks of avian flu, and some commentators have hypothesized that further outbreaks could occur and reach pandemic levels. while fully-cooked chicken has been determined to be safe for consumption, and while the company has taken and continues to take measures to anticipate and minimize the effect of these outbreaks on our business, any further outbreaks could adversely affect the price and availability of poultry and cause customers to shift their preferences. in addition, outbreaks on a widespread basis could also affect our ability to attract and retain employees. 9 food safety and food-borne illness concerns may have an adverse effect on our business. the company considers food safety a top priority and dedicates substantial resources to ensure that our customers enjoy safe, quality food products. however, food-borne illnesses (such as e. coli, hepatitis a, trichinosis or salmonella) and food safety issues have occurred in the past (see item 3, legal proceedings, in this form 10-k for a discussion of litigation arising from an e. coli outbreak allegedly linked to a number of taco bell restaurants in the northeast u.s. during november/december 2006), and could occur in the future. if such instances of food-borne illness or other food safety issues were to occur, whether at our restaurants or those of our competitors, negative publicity could result which could adversely affect sales and profitability. if our customers become ill from food-borne illnesses, we could also be forced to temporarily close some restaurants. additionally, the occurrence of food-borne illnesses or food safety issues could adversely affect the price and availability of affected ingredients. finally, like other companies in the restaurant industry, some of our products may contain genetically engineered food products; increased regulation of and opposition to genetically engineered food products have on occasion and may in the future force us to use alternative sources at increased costs. our foreign operations subject us to risks that could negatively affect our business. our restaurants are operated in numerous countries and territories and our foreign business is significant. we intend to further expand our international operations over the next several years. as a result, our business and operations are subject to the risk of changes in economic conditions, tax systems, consumer preferences, social conditions and political conditions inherent in foreign operations, including changes in the laws and policies that govern foreign investment in countries where our restaurants are operated, as well as changes in united states laws and regulations relating to foreign trade and investment. in addition, our results of operations and the value of our foreign assets are affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, which may favorably or adversely affect reported earnings. there can be no assurance as to the future effect of any such changes on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. mainland china is one of our fastest developing markets. any significant or prolonged deterioration in u.s.-china relations could adversely affect our china business. our growing investments in our china operations will increase our exposure in this market. many of the risks and uncertainties of doing business in china are solely within the control of the chinese government. china government regulates the scope of our foreign investments and business conducted within china. although management believes it has structured our china operations to comply with local laws, there are uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of laws and regulations and the enforceability of intellectual property and contract rights in china. if we were unable to enforce our intellectual property and contract rights in china, our business would be adversely impacted. changes in commodity and other operating costs or supply chain and business disruptions could adversely affect our results of operations. while the company takes measures to anticipate and react to changes in food and supply costs, any increase in the prices of the ingredients most critical to our menu, such as beef, chicken, cheese and produce, among others, could adversely affect our operating results. although we try to manage the impact that these fluctuations have on our operating results, we remain susceptible to increases in food costs as a result of factors beyond our control, such as general economic conditions, seasonal fluctuations, weather conditions, demand, food safety concerns, product recalls, labor disputes and government regulations. in addition to food, we purchase electricity, oil and natural gas needed to operate our restaurants, and suppliers purchase gasoline needed to transport food and supplies to us. any significant increase in energy costs could adversely affect our business through higher rates and the imposition of fuel surcharges by our suppliers. because we provide moderately priced food, we may choose not to, or be unable to, pass along commodity price increases to our customers. additionally, significant increases in gasoline prices could result in a decrease of customer traffic at our restaurants. we rely on third party distribution companies to deliver food and supplies to our stores. interruption of distribution services due to financial distress or other issues could impact our operations. our operating costs also include premiums that we pay for our insurance (including workers compensation, general liability, property and health) which 10 may increase over time, thereby further increasing our costs. finally, our industry is susceptible to natural disasters which could result in restaurant closures and business disruptions. our operating results are closely tied to the success of our concepts franchisees. as a result of our franchising programs, our operating results are dependent upon the sales volumes and viability of our franchisees. any significant inability of our franchisees to operate successfully could adversely affect our operating results. franchisees may not have access to the financial or management resources that they need to open or continue operating the restaurants contemplated by their franchise agreements with us, or be able to find suitable sites on which to develop them. in addition, franchisees may not be able to negotiate acceptable lease or purchase terms for the sites, obtain the necessary permits and government approvals or meet construction schedules. our franchisees generally depend upon financing from banks and other financial institutions in order to construct and open new restaurants. in some instances, financing has been difficult to obtain for some operators. any of these problems could slow our planned growth. we could be party to litigation that could adversely affect us by increasing our expenses or subjecting us to material money damages and other remedies. as a restaurant industry participant, we are susceptible to claims filed by customers alleging that we are responsible for an illness or injury they suffered at or after a visit to our restaurants. regardless of whether any claims against us are valid, or whether we are ultimately held liable, such litigation may be expensive to defend and may divert time and money away from our operations and hurt our performance. a judgment for significant monetary damages in excess of any insurance coverage could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. any adverse publicity resulting from these allegations may also adversely affect our reputation, which in turn could adversely affect our results. in addition, the restaurant industry has been subject to claims that relate to the nutritional content of food products, as well as claims that the menus and practices of restaurant chains have led to the obesity of some guests. we may also be subject to this type of claim in the future and, even if we are not, publicity about these matters (particularly directed at the quick service and fast-casual segments of the industry) may harm our reputation and adversely affect our results. changes in governmental regulations may adversely affect our business operations. we and our franchisees are subject to various federal, state and local regulations. each of our restaurants is subject to state and local licensing and regulation by health, sanitation, food and workplace safety and other agencies. requirements of local authorities with respect to zoning, land use, licensing, permitting and environmental factors could delay or prevent development of new restaurants in particular locations. we are subject to the americans with disabilities act and similar state laws that give civil rights protections to individuals with disabilities in the context of employment, public accommodations and other areas. the expenses associated with any facilities modifications required by these laws could be material. our operations are also subject to the u.s. fair labor standards act, which governs such matters as minimum wages, overtime and other working conditions, family leave mandates and a variety of similar state laws that govern these and other employment law matters. the compliance costs associated with these laws and evolving regulations could be substantial. we may not attain our target development goals. we are pursuing a disciplined growth strategy, which, to be successful, will depend in large part on our ability and the ability of our franchisees to upgrade existing restaurants and open new restaurants, and to operate these restaurants on a profitable basis. we cannot guarantee that we, or our franchisees, will be able to achieve our expansion goals or that new, upgraded or converted restaurants will be operated profitably. further, there is no assurance that any restaurant we open or convert will obtain operating results similar to those of our existing restaurants. the success of our planned expansion, including our multibranding initiatives, will depend upon numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control. 11 the restaurant industry in which we operate is highly competitive. the restaurant industry in which we operate is highly competitive with respect to price and quality of food products, new product development, advertising levels and promotional initiatives, customer service, reputation, restaurant location, and attractiveness and maintenance of properties. if our restaurants and franchised restaurants are unable to compete successfully with other restaurants in new and existing markets, our business could be adversely affected. in the restaurant industry, labor is a primary operating cost component. competition for qualified employees could also require us to pay higher wages to attract a sufficient number of employees. in addition, our success depends to a significant extent on numerous factors affecting discretionary consumer spending, including economic conditions, disposable consumer income and consumer confidence. adverse changes in these factors could reduce guest traffic or impose practical limits on pricing, either of which could harm our results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the company is exposed to financial market risks associated with interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices. in the normal course of business and in accordance with our policies, we manage these risks through a variety of strategies, which may include the use of derivative financial and commodity instruments to hedge our underlying exposures. our policies prohibit the use of derivative instruments for trading purposes, and we have procedures in place to monitor and control their use. interest rate risk we have a market risk exposure to changes in interest rates, principally in the united states. we attempt to minimize this risk and lower our overall borrowing costs through the utilization of derivative financial instruments, primarily interest rate swaps. these swaps are entered into with financial institutions and have reset dates and critical terms that match those of the underlying debt. accordingly, any change in market value associated with interest rate swaps is offset by the opposite market impact on the related debt. at december 30, 2006 and december 31, 2005, a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in short-term interest rates would result, over the following twelve-month period, in a reduction of approximately $8 million and $7 million, respectively, in income before income taxes. the estimated reductions are based upon the level of variable rate debt and assume no changes in the volume or composition of debt. in addition, the fair value of our derivative financial instruments at december 30, 2006 and december 31, 2005 would decrease approximately $32 million and $39 million, respectively. the fair value of our senior unsecured notes at december 30, 2006 and december 31, 2005 would decrease approximately $69 million and $59 million, respectively. fair value was determined by discounting the projected cash flows. foreign currency exchange rate risk the combined international division and china division operating profits constitute approximately 48% of our operating profit in 2006, excluding unallocated income (expenses). in addition, the company net asset exposure (defined as foreign currency assets less foreign currency liabilities) totaled approximately $1.4 billion as of december 30, 2006. operating in international markets exposes the company to movements in foreign currency exchange rates. the company primary exposures result from our operations in asia-pacific, europe and the americas. changes in foreign currency exchange rates would impact the translation of our investments in foreign operations, the fair value of our foreign currency denominated financial instruments and our reported foreign currency denominated earnings and cash flows. for the fiscal year ended december 30, 2006, operating profit would have decreased $78 million if all foreign currencies had uniformly weakened 10% relative to the u.s. dollar. the estimated reduction assumes no changes in sales volumes or local currency sales or input prices. 51 we attempt to minimize the exposure related to our investments in foreign operations by financing those investments with local currency debt when practical. in addition, we attempt to minimize the exposure related to foreign currency denominated financial instruments by purchasing goods and services from third parties in local currencies when practical. consequently, foreign currency denominated financial instruments consist primarily of intercompany short-term receivables and payables. at times, we utilize forward contracts to reduce our exposure related to these intercompany short-term receivables and payables. the notional amount and maturity dates of these contracts match those of the underlying receivables or payables such that our foreign currency exchange risk related to these instruments is eliminated. commodity price risk we are subject to volatility in food costs as a result of market risk associated with commodity prices. our ability to recover increased costs through higher pricing is, at times, limited by the competitive environment in which we operate. we manage our exposure to this risk primarily through pricing agreements as well as, on a limited basis, commodity future and option contracts. commodity future and option contracts entered into for the fiscal years ended december 30, 2006, and december 31, 2005, did not significantly impact our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. cautionary statements from time to time, in both written reports and oral statements, we present forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27a of the securities act of 1933, as amended, and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended. the statements include those identified by such words as may, will, expect, project, anticipate, believe, plan and other similar terminology. these forward-looking statements reflect our current expectations regarding future events and operating and financial performance and are based upon data available at the time of the statements. actual results involve risks and uncertainties, including both those specific to the company and those specific to the industry, and could differ materially from expectations. accordingly, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. company risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, changes in effective tax rates; potential unfavorable variances between estimated and actual liabilities; our ability to secure distribution of products and equipment to our restaurants on favorable economic terms and our ability to ensure adequate supply of restaurant products and equipment in our stores; unexpected disruptions in our supply chain; effects and outcomes of any pending or future legal claims involving the company; the effectiveness of operating initiatives and marketing and advertising and promotional efforts; our ability to continue to recruit and motivate qualified restaurant personnel; the ongoing financial viability of our franchisees and licensees; the success of our refranchising strategy; the success of our strategies for international development and operations; volatility of actuarially determined losses and loss estimates; and adoption of new or changes in accounting policies and practices including pronouncements promulgated by standard setting bodies. industry risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, economic and political conditions in the countries and territories where we operate, including effects of war and terrorist activities; new legislation and governmental regulations or changes in laws and regulations and the consequent impact on our business; new product and concept development by us and/or our food industry competitors; changes in commodity, labor, and other operating costs; changes in competition in the food industry; publicity which may impact our business and/or industry; severe weather conditions; volatility of commodity costs; increases in minimum wage and other operating costs; availability and cost of land and construction; consumer preferences or perceptions concerning the products of the company and/or our competitors, spending patterns and demographic trends; political or economic instability in local markets and changes in currency exchange and interest rates; and the impact that any widespread illness or general health concern may have on our business and/or the economy of the countries in which we operate. 52(a) general development of business in january 1997, pepsico announced its decision to spin-off its restaurant businesses to shareholders as an independent public company (the spin-off ). effective october 6, 1997, pepsico disposed of its restaurant businesses by distributing all of the outstanding shares of common stock of yum to its shareholders. on may 16, 2002, following receipt of shareholder approval, the company changed its name from tricon global restaurants, inc. to yum! brands, inc. (b) financial information about operating segments yum consists of six operating segments: kfc-u.s., pizza hut-u.s., taco bell-u.s., long john silver's ( ljs )-u.s. and a&amp;w all american food restaurants ( a&amp;w )-u.s., yum restaurants international ( yri or international division ) and yum restaurants china ( china division ). for financial reporting purposes, management considers the four u.s. operating segments to be similar and, therefore, has aggregated them into a single reportable operating segment ( u.s. ). at the beginning of 2010 we began reporting information for our thailand and kfc taiwan businesses within our international division as a result of changes to our management reporting structure. these businesses now report to the president of yri, whereas previously they reported to the president of the china division. while this reporting change did not impact our consolidated results, segment information for previous years has been restated to be consistent with the current year presentation throughout the form 10-k. the china division includes only mainland china ( china ) and the international division includes the remainder of our international operations. operating segment information for the years ended december 25, 2010, december 26, 2009 and december 27, 2008 for the company is included in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations ( md&amp;a ) in part ii, item 7, pages 25 through 59 and in the related consolidated financial statements and footnotes in part ii, item 8, pages 61 through 124. (c) narrative description of business general yum is the world's largest quick service restaurant ( qsr ) company based on number of system units, with more than 37,000 units in more than 110 countries and territories. through the five concepts of kfc, pizza hut, taco bell, ljs and a&amp;w (the concepts ), the company develops, operates, franchises and licenses a worldwide system of restaurants which prepare, package and sell a menu of competitively priced food items. units are operated by a concept or by independent franchisees or licensees under the terms of franchise or license agreements. franchisees can range in size from individuals owning just one unit to large publicly traded companies. in addition, the company owns non-controlling interests in entities in china who operate similar to franchisees of kfc and a non-controlling interest in little sheep, a hot pot concept headquartered in hong kong. 3 at year end 2010, we had approximately 20,000 system restaurants in the u.s. and recorded revenues of $4.1 billion and operating profit of $668 million during 2010. the international division, based in dallas, texas, comprises approximately 14,000 system restaurants, primarily kfcs and pizza huts, operating in over 110 countries outside the u.s. in 2010 yri recorded revenues of $3.1 billion and operating profit of $589 million. the china division, based in shanghai, china, comprises approximately 4,000 system restaurants in china, primarily kfcs and pizza huts. in 2010, the china division recorded revenues of $4.1 billion and operating profit of $755 million. restaurant concepts most restaurants in each concept offer consumers the ability to dine in and/or carry out food. in addition, taco bell, kfc, ljs and a&amp;w offer a drive-thru option in many stores. pizza hut offers a drive-thru option on a much more limited basis. pizza hut and, on a much more limited basis, kfc offer delivery service. each concept has proprietary menu items and emphasizes the preparation of food with high quality ingredients, as well as unique recipes and special seasonings to provide appealing, tasty and attractive food at competitive prices. the franchise program of the company is designed to assure consistency and quality, and the company is selective in granting franchises. under standard franchise agreements, franchisees supply capital initially by paying a franchise fee to yum, purchasing or leasing the land, building and equipment and purchasing signs, seating, inventories and supplies and, over the longer term, by reinvesting in the business. franchisees then contribute to the company's revenues through the payment of royalties based on a percentage of sales. the company believes that it is important to maintain strong and open relationships with its franchisees and their representatives. to this end, the company invests a significant amount of time working with the franchisee community and their representative organizations on all aspects of the business, including products, equipment, operational improvements and standards and management techniques. the company and its franchisees also operate multibrand units, primarily in the u.s., where two or more of the concepts are operated in a single unit. following is a brief description of each concept: kfc kfc was founded in corbin, kentucky by colonel harland d. sanders, an early developer of the quick service food business and a pioneer of the restaurant franchise concept. the colonel perfected his secret blend of 11 herbs and spices for kentucky fried chicken in 1939 and signed up his first franchisee in 1952. as of year end 2010, kfc was the leader in the u.s. chicken qsr segment among companies featuring chicken-on-the-bone as their primary product offering, with a 40 percent market share (source: the npd group, inc.; npd foodworld; crest) in that segment, which is nearly three times that of its closest national competitor. kfc operates in 110 countries and territories throughout the world. as of year end 2010, kfc had 5,055 units in the u.s., and 11,798 units outside the u.s., including 3,244 units in china. approximately 15 percent of the u.s. units and 29 percent of the non-u.s. units are concept-owned. 4 traditional kfc restaurants in the u.s. offer fried and non-fried chicken-on-the-bone products, primarily marketed under the names original recipe, extra tasty crispy and kentucky grilled chicken. other principal entree items include chicken sandwiches (including the snacker and the twister), kfc famous bowls, colonel's crispy strips, wings, popcorn chicken and seasonally, chunky chicken pot pies. kfc restaurants in the u.s. also offer a variety of side items, such as biscuits, mashed potatoes and gravy, coleslaw, corn, and potato wedges, as well as desserts. while many of these products are offered outside of the u.s., international menus are more focused on chicken sandwiches and colonel's crispy strips, and include side items that are suited to local preferences and tastes. res taurant decor throughout the world is characterized by the image of the colonel. pizza hut the first pizza hut restaurant was opened in 1958 in wichita, kansas, and within a year, the first franchise unit was opened. today, pizza hut is the largest restaurant chain in the world specializing in the sale of ready-to-eat pizza products. as of year end 2010, pizza hut was the leader in the u.s. pizza qsr segment, with a 14 percent market share (source: the npd group, inc.; npd foodworld; crest) in that segment. pizza hut operates in 95 countries and territories throughout the world. as of year end 2010, pizza hut had 7,542 units in the u.s., and 5,890 units outside of the u.s. approximately 6 percent of the u.s. units and 22 percent of the non-u.s. units are concept-owned. pizza hut features a variety of pizzas, which may include pan pizza, thin n crispy, hand tossed, sicilian, stuffed crust, twisted crust, sicilian lasagna pizza, cheesy bites pizza, the big new yorker, the big italy, the insider, the chicago dish, the natural, pizza mia and 4forall. each of these pizzas is offered with a variety of different toppings. pizza hut now also offers a variety of tuscani pastas. menu items outside of the u.s. are generally similar to those offered in the u.s., though pizza toppings are often suited to local preferences and tastes. many pizza huts offer chicken wings, including over 3,000 stores offering wings under the brand wingstreet, primarily in the u.s. taco bell the first taco bell restaurant was opened in 1962 by glen bell in downey, california, and in 1964, the first taco bell franchise was sold. taco bell is based in irvine, california. as of year end 2010, taco bell was the leader in the u.s. mexican qsr segment, with a 52 percent market share (source: the npd group, inc.; npd foodworld; crest) in that segment. taco bell operates in 21 countries and territories throughout the world. as of year end 2010, there were 5,634 taco bell units in the u.s., and 262 units outside of the u.s. approximately 22 percent of the u.s. units and 1 percent of the non-u.s. units are concept-owned. taco bell specializes in mexican-style food products, including various types of tacos, burritos, gorditas, chalupas, quesadillas, taquitos, salads, nachos and other related items. additionally, proprietary entr e items include grilled stuft burritos and border bowls. taco bell units feature a distinctive bell logo on their signage. 5 ljs the first ljs restaurant opened in 1969 and the first ljs franchise unit opened later the same year. ljs is based in louisville, kentucky. as of year end 2010, ljs was the leader in the u.s. seafood qsr segment, with a 37 percent market share (source: the npd group, inc.; npd foodworld; crest) in that segment. ljs operates in 4 countries and territories throughout the world. as of year end 2010, there were 964 ljs units in the u.s., and 31 units outside the u.s. all single-brand units inside and outside of the u.s. are operated by franchisees or licensees. as of year end 2010, there were 86 concept-owned multi-brand units that included the ljs concept. ljs features a variety of seafood and chicken items, including meals featuring batter-dipped fish, chicken and shrimp, non-fried salmon, shrimp and tilapia, hushpuppies and portable snack items. ljs units typically feature a distinctive seaside/nautical theme. a&amp;w a&amp;w was founded in lodi, california by roy allen in 1919 and the first a&amp;w franchise unit opened in 1925. a&amp;w is based in louisville, kentucky. a&amp;w operates in 9 countries and territories throughout the world. as of year end 2010, there were 322 a&amp;w units in the u.s., and 317 units outside the u.s. as of year end 2010, all units were operated by franchisees. a&amp;w serves a&amp;w draft root beer and a signature a&amp;w root beer float, as well as hot dogs and hamburgers. restaurant operations through its concepts, yum develops, operates, franchises and licenses a worldwide system of both traditional and non-traditional qsr restaurants. traditional units feature dine-in, carryout and, in some instances, drive-thru or delivery services. non-traditional units, which are typically licensed outlets, include express units and kiosks which have a more limited menu and operate in non-traditional locations like malls, airports, gasoline service stations, convenience stores, stadiums, amusement parks and colleges, where a full-scale traditional outlet would not be practical or efficient. restaurant management structure varies by concept and unit size. generally, each concept-owned restaurant is led by a restaurant general manager ( rgm ), together with one or more assistant managers, depending on the operating complexity and sales volume of the restaurant. in the u.s., the average restaurant has 25 to 30 employees, while internationally this figure can be significantly higher depending on the location and sales volume of the restaurant. most of the employees work on a part-time basis. each concept issues detailed manuals, which may then be customized to meet local regulations and customs, covering all aspects of restaurant operations, including food handling and product preparation procedures, safety and quality issues, equipment maintenance, facility standards an d accounting control procedures. the restaurant management teams are responsible for the day-to-day operation of each unit and for ensuring compliance with operating standards. champs which stands for cleanliness, hospitality, accuracy, maintenance, product quality and speed of service is our proprietary core systemwide program for training, measuring and rewarding employee performance against key customer measures. champs is intended to align the operating processes of our entire system around one set of standards. rgms' efforts, including champs performance measures, are monitored by area coaches. area coaches typically work with approximately six to twelve restaurants. various senior operators visit concept-owned restaurants from time to time to help ensure adherence to system standards and mentor restaurant team members. 6 supply and distribution the company's concepts, including concept units operated by its franchisees, are substantial purchasers of a number of food and paper products, equipment and other restaurant supplies. the principal items purchased include chicken, cheese, beef and pork products, seafood, paper and packaging materials. the company is committed to conducting its business in an ethical, legal and socially responsible manner. all restaurants, regardless of their ownership structure or location, must adhere to strict food quality and safety standards. the guidelines are translated to local market requirements and regulations where appropriate and without compromising the standards. the company has not experienced any significant continuous shortages of supplies, and alternative sources for most of these products are generally available. prices paid for these supplies fluctuate. when prices increase, the concepts may attempt to pass on such increases to their customers, although there is no assurance that this can be done practically. u.s. division. the company, along with the representatives of the company's kfc, pizza hut, taco bell, ljs and a&amp;w franchisee groups, are members in the unified foodservice purchasing co-op, llc (the unified co-op ) which was created for the purpose of purchasing certain restaurant products and equipment in the u.s. the core mission of the unified co-op is to provide the lowest possible sustainable store-delivered prices for restaurant products and equipment. this arrangement combines the purchasing power of the concept-owned and franchisee restaurants in the u.s. which the company believes leverages the system's scale to drive cost savings and effectiveness in the purchasing function. the company al so believes that the unified co-op has resulted, and should continue to result, in closer alignment of interests and a stronger relationship with its franchisee community. most food products, paper and packaging supplies, and equipment used in restaurant operations are distributed to individual restaurant units by third party distribution companies. mclane company, inc. ( mclane ) is the exclusive distributor for the majority of items used in concept-owned restaurants in the u.s. and for a substantial number of franchisee and licensee stores. the company entered into a new agreement with mclane effective january 1, 2011 relating to distribution to concept-owned restaurants in the u.s. this agreement extends through december 31, 2016 and generally restricts concept-owned restaurants from using alternative distributors in the u.s. for most products. international and china divisions. outside of the u.s. we and our franchisees use decentralized sourcing and distribution systems involving many different global, regional, and local suppliers and distributors. in china, we work with approximately 500 suppliers and own the entire distribution system. in our yri markets we have approximately 1,500 suppliers, including u.s.-based suppliers that export to many countries. 7 trademarks and patents the company and its concepts own numerous registered trademarks and service marks. the company believes that many of these marks, including its kentucky fried chicken , kfc , pizza hut , taco bell and long john silver's marks, have significant value and are materially important to its business. the company's policy is to pursue registration of its important marks whenever feasible and to oppose vigorously any infringement of its marks. the company also licenses certain a&amp;w trademarks and service marks (the a&amp;w marks ), which are owned by a&amp;w concentrate company (formerly a&amp;w brands, inc.). a&amp;w concentrate company, which is not affiliated with the company, has granted the company an exclusive, worldwide (excluding canada), perpetual, royalty-free license (with the right to sublicense) to use the a&amp;w marks for restaurant services. the use of these marks by franchisees and licensees has been authorized in kfc, pizza hut, taco bell, ljs and a&amp;w franchise and license agreements. under current law and with proper use, the company's rights in its marks can generally last indefinitely. the company also has certain patents on restaurant equipment which, while valuable, are not material to its business. working capital information about the company's working capital is included in md&amp;a in part ii, item 7, pages 25 through 59 and the consolidated statements of cash flows in part ii, item 8, page 64. customers the company's business is not dependent upon a single customer or small group of customers. seasonal operations the company does not consider its operations to be seasonal to any material degree. backlog orders company restaurants have no backlog orders. government contracts no material portion of the company's business is subject to renegotiation of profits or termination of contracts or subcontracts at the election of the u.s. government. competition the retail food industry, in which our concepts compete, is made up of supermarkets, supercenters, warehouse stores, convenience stores, coffee shops, snack bars, delicatessens and restaurants (including the qsr segment), and is intensely competitive with respect to food quality, price, service, convenience, location and concept. the industry is often affected by changes in consumer tastes; national, regional or local economic conditions; currency fluctuations; demographic trends; traffic patterns; the type, number and location of competing food retailers and products; and disposable purchasing power. each of the concepts competes with international, national and regional restaurant chains as well as locally-owned restaurants, not only for customers, but also for management and hourly personnel, suitable real esta te sites and qualified franchisees. given the various types and vast number of competitors, our concepts do not constitute a significant portion of the retail food industry in terms of number of system units or system sales, either on a worldwide or individual market basis. 8 research and development ( r&amp;d ) the company's subsidiaries operate r&amp;d facilities in louisville, kentucky (kfc); dallas, texas (pizza hut and yri); and irvine, california (taco bell) and in several locations outside the u.s., including shanghai, china. the company expensed $33 million, $31 million and $34 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, for r&amp;d activities. from time to time, independent suppliers also conduct research and development activities for the benefit of the yum system. environmental matters the company is not aware of any federal, state or local environmental laws or regulations that will materially affect its earnings or competitive position, or result in material capital expenditures. however, the company cannot predict the effect on its operations of possible future environmental legislation or regulations. during 2010, there were no material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities and no such material expenditures are anticipated. government regulation u.s. division. the company and its u.s. division are subject to various federal, state and local laws affecting its business. each of the concepts' restaurants in the u.s. must comply with licensing and regulation by a number of governmental authorities, which include health, sanitation, safety and fire agencies in the state and/or municipality in which the restaurant is located. in addition, each concept must comply with various state and federal laws that regulate the franchisor/franchisee relationship. to date, no concept has been significantly affected by any difficulty, delay or failure to obtain required licenses or approvals. the company and each concept are also subject to federal and state laws governing such matters as employment and pay practices, overtime, tip credits and working conditions. the bulk of the concepts' employees are paid on an hourly basis at rates related to the federal and state minimum wages. the company and each concept are also subject to federal and state child labor laws which, among other things, prohibit the use of certain hazardous equipment by employees younger than 18 years of age. neither the company nor any concept has been materially adversely affected by such laws to date. the company and each concept, as applicable, continue to monitor their facilities for compliance with the americans with disabilities act ( ada ) in order to conform to its requirements. under the ada, the company or the relevant concept could be required to expend funds to modify its restaurants to better provide service to, or make reasonable accommodation for the employment of, disabled persons. international and china divisions . the company's restaurants outside the u.s. are subject to national and local laws and regulations which are similar to those affecting u.s. restaurants, including laws and regulations concerning labor, health, sanitation and safety. the restaurants outside the u.s. are also subject to tariffs and regulations on imported commodities and equipment and laws regulating foreign investment. international compliance with environmental requirements has not had a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations, capital expenditures or competitive position. 9 employees as of year end 2010, the company and its concepts employed approximately 378,000 persons, approximately 86 percent of whom were part-time. approximately 17 percent of these employees are employed in the u.s. the company believes that it provides working conditions and compensation that compare favorably with those of its principal competitors. the majority of employees are paid on an hourly basis. some non-u.s. employees are subject to labor council relationships that vary due to the diverse cultures in which the company operates. the company and its concepts consider their employee relations to be good. (d) financial information about geographic areas financial information about our significant geographic areas (u.s., international division and china division) is incorporated herein by reference from selected financial data in part ii, item 6, page 23; management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations ( md&amp;a ) in part ii, item 7, pages 25 through 59; and in the related consolidated financial statements and footnotes in part ii, item 8, pages 61 through 124. (e) available information the company makes available through the investor relations section of its internet website at www.yum.com its annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act, as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing such material with the securities and exchange commission. our corporate governance principles and our code of conduct are also located within this section of the website. the reference to the company's website address does not constitute incorporation by reference of the information contained on the website and should not be considered part of this document. these documents, as well as our sec filings, are available in print to any shareholder who requests a copy from our investor relations department. item 1a. risk factors. you should carefully review the risks described below as they identify important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our forward-looking statements and historical trends. food safety and food-borne illness concerns may have an adverse effect on our business. food-borne illnesses, such as e. coli, hepatitis a, trichinosis or salmonella, and food safety issues have occurred in the past, and could occur in the future. any report or publicity linking us or one of our concept restaurants, including restaurants operated by our franchisees, to instances of food-borne illness or other food safety issues, including food tampering or contamination, could adversely affect our concepts' brands and reputations as well as our revenues and profits. if customers of our concepts or franchisees become ill from food-borne illnesses, we and our franchisees may temporarily close some restaurants. in addition, instances of food-borne illness, food tampering or food contamination occurring solely at restaurants of competitors could adversely affect our sales as a result of negative publicity about the foodservice industry generally. food-borne illness, food tampering and food contamination could also be caused by food suppliers or distributors and, as a result, could be out of our control. the occurrence of food-borne illnesses or food safety issues could also adversely affect the price and availability of affected ingredients, which could result in disruptions in our supply chain and/or lower margins for us and our franchisees. 10 our china operations subject us to risks that could negatively affect our business. a significant and growing portion of our restaurants are located in china. as a result, our financial results are increasingly dependent on our results in china, and our business is increasingly exposed to risks there. these risks include changes in economic conditions (including wage and commodity inflation, consumer spending and unemployment levels), tax rates and laws and consumer preferences, as well as changes in the regulatory environment and increased competition. in addition, our results of operations in china and the value of our chinese assets are affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which may adversely affect reported earnings. there can be no assurance as to the future effect of any such changes on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. in addition, any significant or prolonged deterioration in u.s.-china relations could adversely affect our china business. certain risks and uncertainties of doing business in china are solely within the control of the chinese government, and chinese law regulates the scope of our foreign investments and business conducted within china. there are also uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of laws and regulations and the enforceability of intellectual property and contract rights in china. if we were unable to enforce our intellectual property or contract rights in china, our business would be adversely impacted. our other foreign operations subject us to risks that could negatively affect our business. a significant portion of our concepts' restaurants are operated in foreign countries and territories outside of the u.s. and china, and we intend to continue expansion of our international operations. as a result, our business is increasingly exposed to risks inherent in foreign operations. these risks, which can vary substantially by market, include political instability, corruption, social and ethnic unrest, changes in economic conditions (including wage and commodity inflation, consumer spending and unemployment levels), the regulatory environment, tax rates and laws and consumer preferences as well as changes in the laws and policies that govern foreign investment in countries where our restaurants are operated. in addition, our results of operations and the value of our foreign assets are affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, which may adversely affect reported earnings. more specifically, an increase in the value of the united states dollar relative to other currencies, such as the australian dollar, the british pound, the canadian dollar and the euro, could have an adverse effect on our reported earnings. there can be no assurance as to the future effect of any such changes on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. we may not attain our target development goals and aggressive development could cannibalize existing sales. our growth strategy depends in large part on our ability to increase our net restaurant count in markets outside the united states, especially china. the successful development of new units will depend in large part on our ability and the ability of our franchisees to open new restaurants and to operate these restaurants on a profitable basis. we cannot guarantee that we, or our franchisees, will be able to achieve our expansion goals or that new restaurants will be operated profitably. further, there is no assurance that any new restaurant will produce operating results similar to those of our existing restaurants. other risks which could impact our ability to increase our net restaurant count include prevailing economic conditions and our, or our franchisees', ability to obtain suitab le restaurant locations, obtain required permits and approvals in a timely manner and hire and train qualified personnel. our franchisees also frequently depend upon financing from banks and other financial institutions in order to construct and open new restaurants. if it becomes more difficult or expensive for our franchisees to obtain financing to develop new restaurants, our planned growth could slow and our future revenue and cash flows could be adversely impacted. in addition, the new restaurants could impact the sales of our existing restaurants nearby. it is not our intention to open new restaurants that materially cannibalize the sales of our existing restaurants. however, as with most growing retail and restaurant operations, there can be no assurance that sales cannibalization will not occur or become more significant in the future as we increase our presence in existing markets over time. 11 changes in commodity and other operating costs could adversely affect our results of operations. any increase in certain commodity prices, such as food, energy and supply costs, could adversely affect our operating results. because our concepts and their franchisees provide moderately priced food, our ability to pass along commodity price increases to our customers is limited. significant increases in gasoline prices could also result in a decrease of customer traffic at our restaurants or the imposition of fuel surcharges by our distributors, each of which could adversely affect our business. our operating expenses also include employee wages and benefits and insurance costs (including workers' compensation, general liability, property and health) which may increase over time. shortages or interruptions in the availability and delivery of food and other supplies may increase costs or reduce revenues. we are dependent upon third parties to make frequent deliveries of food products and supplies that meet our specifications at competitive prices. shortages or interruptions in the supply of food items and other supplies to our restaurants could adversely affect the availability, quality and cost of items we buy and the operations of our restaurants. such shortages or disruptions could be caused by inclement weather, natural disasters such as floods, drought and hurricanes, increased demand, problems in production or distribution, the inability of our vendors to obtain credit, food safety warnings or advisories or the prospect of such pronouncements, or other conditions beyond our control. a shortage or interruption in the availability of certain food products or supplies could increase costs and limit t he availability of products critical to restaurant operations. in addition, failure by a principal distributor for our concepts and/or our franchisees to meet its service requirements could lead to a disruption of service or supply until a new distributor is engaged, and any disruption could have an adverse effect on our business. risks associated with the suppliers from whom our products are sourced and the safety of those products could adversely affect our financial performance. the products sold by our concepts and their franchisees are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international suppliers. political and economic instability in the countries in which foreign suppliers are located, the financial instability of suppliers, suppliers' failure to meet our standards, product quality issues, inflation, and other factors relating to the suppliers and the countries in which they are located are beyond our control. these and other factors affecting our suppliers and our access to products could adversely affect our financial performance. concerns regarding the safety of food ingredients or products that we source from our suppliers could cause customers to avoid purchasing certain products from us. lost confidence on the part of our customers would be difficult and costly to reestablish. our operating results are closely tied to the success of our concepts' franchisees. a significant portion of our revenue consists of royalties from our franchisees. because a significant and growing portion of our restaurants are run by franchisees, the success of our business is increasingly dependent upon the operational and financial success of our franchisees. while our franchise agreements set forth certain operational standards and guidelines, we have limited control over how our franchisees' businesses are run, and any significant inability of our franchisees to operate successfully could adversely affect our operating results through decreased royalty payments. for example, franchisees may not have access to the financial or management resources that they need to open or continue operating the restaurants contemplated by their franchise agreements with us. in a ddition, franchisees may not be able to find suitable sites on which to develop new restaurants or negotiate acceptable lease or purchase terms for the sites, obtain the necessary permits and government approvals or meet construction schedules. 12 if our franchisees incur too much debt or if economic or sales trends deteriorate such that they are unable to repay existing debt, it could result in financial distress, including insolvency or bankruptcy. if a significant number of our franchisees become financially distressed, our operating results could be impacted through reduced or delayed royalty payments or increased rent obligations for leased properties on which we are contingently liable. our results and financial condition could be affected by the success of our refranchising program. we are in the process of refranchising restaurants in the u.s., which could reduce the percentage of company ownership of kfcs, pizza huts, and taco bells in the u.s. from approximately 15% at the end of 2010 to approximately 12% by the end of 2011. our ability to execute this plan will depend on, among other things, whether we receive fair offers for these restaurants, whether we can find viable and suitable buyers and how quickly we can agree to terms with potential buyers. in addition, financing for restaurant purchases can be expensive or difficult to obtain. if buyers cannot obtain financing at attractive prices or if they are unable to obtain financing at any price our refranchising program could be delayed. once executed, the success of the refranchising program will depend on, among other things, buyers effectively operating these restaurants, the impact of contingent liabilities incurred in connection with refranchising, and whether the resulting ownership mix of company-operated and franchisee-operated restaurants allows us to meet our financial objectives. in addition, refranchising activity could vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year and that volatility could impact our reported earnings. we could be party to litigation that could adversely affect us by increasing our expenses or subjecting us to significant monetary damages and other remedies. we are involved in a number of legal proceedings, which include consumer, employment, tort and other litigation. we are currently a defendant in cases containing class action allegations in which the plaintiffs have brought claims under federal and state wage and hour and other laws. plaintiffs in these types of lawsuits often seek recovery of very large or indeterminate amounts, and the magnitude of the potential loss relating to such lawsuits may not be accurately estimated. regardless of whether any claims against us are valid, or whether we are ultimately held liable, such litigation may be expensive to defend and may divert time and money away from our operations and hurt our performance. with respect to insured claims, a judgment for monetary damages in excess of any insurance coverage could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. any adverse publicity resulting from these allegations may also adversely affect our reputation, which in turn could adversely affect our results. in addition, the restaurant industry has been subject to claims that relate to the nutritional content of food products, as well as claims that the menus and practices of restaurant chains have led to the obesity of some customers. we may also be subject to this type of claim in the future and, even if we are not, publicity about these matters (particularly directed at the quick service and fast-casual segments of the industry) may harm our reputation and adversely affect our results. health concerns arising from outbreaks of viruses or other diseases may have an adverse effect on our business. asian and european countries have experienced outbreaks of avian flu, and some commentators have hypothesized that further outbreaks could occur and reach pandemic levels. future outbreaks could adversely affect the price and availability of poultry and cause customers to eat less chicken. widespread outbreaks could also affect our ability to attract and retain employees. furthermore, other viruses such as h1n1 or swine flu may be transmitted through human contact, and the risk of contracting viruses could cause employees or guests to avoid gathering in public places, which could adversely affect restaurant guest traffic or the ability to adequately staff restaurants. we could also be adversely affected if jurisdictions in which we have restaurants impose mandatory closures, seek voluntary closures or impose restrictions on operations of restaurants. even if such measures are not implemented and a virus or other disease does not spread significantly, the perceived risk of infection or significant health risk may affect our business. 13 our success depends substantially on the value and perception of our brands. our success is dependent in large part upon our ability to maintain and enhance the value of our brands and our customers' connection to our brands. brand value is based in part on consumer perceptions on a variety of subjective qualities, and even isolated business incidents can erode brand value and consumer trust, particularly if the incidents receive considerable publicity or result in litigation. for example, our brands could be damaged by claims or perceptions about the quality of our products regardless of whether such claims or perceptions are accurate. consumer demand for our products and our brand value could diminish significantly if any such incidents or other matters erode consumer confidence in us or our products, which would likely result in lower sales and, ultimately, profits. our business may be adversely impacted by general economic conditions. our results of operations are dependent upon discretionary spending by consumers, which may be affected by general economic conditions globally or in one or more of the markets we serve. some of the factors that impact discretionary consumer spending include unemployment, disposable income and consumer confidence. these and other macroeconomic factors could have an adverse effect on our sales mix, profitability or development plans, which could harm our financial condition and operating results. the impact of potentially limited credit availability on third party vendors such as our suppliers cannot be predicted. the inability of our suppliers to access financing, or the insolvency of suppliers, could lead to disruptions in our supply chain which could adversely impact our sales and financial condition. changes in governmental regulations may adversely affect our business operations. our concepts and their franchisees are subject to numerous laws and regulations around the world. our restaurants are subject to state and local licensing and regulation by health, sanitation, food, workplace safety, fire and other agencies. in addition, we face risks arising from compliance with and enforcement of increasingly complex federal and state immigration laws and regulations in the u.s. we are also subject to the americans with disabilities act in the u.s. and similar state laws that give civil rights protections to individuals with disabilities in the context of employment, public accommodations and other areas. the expenses associated with any facilities modifications required by these laws could be material. our operations in the u.s. are also subject to the u.s. fair labor standards act, which governs such matters as minimum wages, overtime and other working conditions, family leave mandates and a variety of similar state laws that govern these and other employment law matters. the compliance costs associated with these laws and evolving regulations could be substantial, and any failure or alleged failure to comply with these laws could lead to litigation, which could adversely aff ect our financial condition. we also face risks from new or changing laws and regulations relating to nutritional content, nutritional labeling, product safety and menu labeling. compliance with these laws and regulations can be costly and can increase our exposure to litigation or governmental investigations or proceedings. new or changing laws and regulations relating to union organizing rights and activities may impact our operations at the restaurant level and increase our cost of labor. in addition, we are subject to laws relating to information security, privacy, cashless payments and consumer credit, protection and fraud, and any failure or perceived failure to comply with those laws could harm our reputation or lead to litigation, which could adversely affect our financial condition. 14 we are also subject to increasing environmental regulations, which could result in increased taxation or future restrictions on or increases in costs associated with food and other restaurant supplies, transportation costs and utility costs, any of which could decrease our operating profits and/or necessitate future investments in our restaurant facilities and equipment to achieve compliance. the impact of current laws and regulations, the effect of future changes in laws or regulations that impose additional requirements and the consequences of litigation relating to current or future laws and regulations, or our inability to respond effectively to significant regulatory or public policy issues, could increase our compliance and other costs of doing business and therefore have an adverse effect on our results of operations. failure to comply with the laws and regulatory requirements of federal, state and local authorities could result in, among other things, revocation of required licenses, administrative enforcement actions, fines and civil and criminal liability. compliance with these laws and regulations can be costly and can increase our exposure to litigation or governmental investigations or pro ceedings. our effective tax rate could increase, negatively impacting our results of operations and financial condition. a significant percentage of our profits are earned outside the u.s. and taxed at lower rates than the u.s. statutory rates. if we were to experience an unforeseen decrease in our cash flows from our u.s. businesses or were unable to refinance future u.s. debt maturities we may be required to repatriate future international earnings to fund our u.s. cash needs. such international earnings would be subject to u.s. tax at the point in time we did not believe they were permanently invested outside the u.s., which could cause our worldwide effective tax rate to increase. additionally, our federal, state and local tax returns are frequently the subject of audits by taxing authorities, and those audits may result in tax assessments and/or penalties. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, if the irs or other taxing authority disagrees with the positions we have taken on our tax returns, we could face additional tax liability, including interest and penalties. there can be no assurance that payment of such additional amounts upon final adjudication of any disputes will not have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position. failure to protect the integrity and security of individually identifiable data of our guests and employees could expose us to litigation and damage our reputation. we receive and maintain certain personal information about our guests and employees. the use of this information by us is regulated by applicable law, as well as by certain third party contracts. if our security and information systems are compromised or our business associates fail to comply with these laws and regulations and this information is obtained by unauthorized persons or used inappropriately, it could adversely affect our reputation, as well as our restaurant operations and results of operations and financial condition. additionally, we could be subject to litigation or the imposition of penalties. as privacy and information security laws and regulations change, we may incur additional costs to ensure we remain in compliance. the retail food industry in which we operate is highly competitive. the retail food industry in which we operate is highly competitive with respect to price and quality of food products, new product development, price, advertising levels and promotional initiatives, customer service, reputation, restaurant location, and attractiveness and maintenance of properties. if consumer or dietary preferences change, or our restaurants are unable to compete successfully with other retail food outlets in new and existing markets, our business could be adversely affected. we also face growing competition as a result of convergence in grocery, deli and restaurant services, including the offering by the grocery industry of convenient meals, including pizzas and entrees with side dishes. in addition, in the retail food industry, labor is a primary operating cost component. competition for qualified employees could also require us to pay higher wages to attract a sufficient number of employees, which could adversely impact our margins. 15 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the company is exposed to financial market risks associated with interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices. in the normal course of business and in accordance with our policies, we manage these risks through a variety of strategies, which may include the use of derivative financial and commodity instruments to hedge our underlying exposures. our policies prohibit the use of derivative instruments for trading purposes, and we have procedures in place to monitor and control their use. interest rate risk we have a market risk exposure to changes in interest rates, principally in the u.s. we attempt to minimize this risk and lower our overall borrowing costs through the utilization of derivative financial instruments, primarily interest rate swaps. these swaps are entered into with financial institutions and have reset dates and critical terms that match those of the underlying debt. accordingly, any change in market value associated with interest rate swaps is offset by the opposite market impact on the related debt. at december 25, 2010 and december 26, 2009, a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in short-term interest rates would result, over the following twelve-month period, in a reduction of approximately $8 million and $6 million, respectively, in income before income taxes. the estimated reductions are based upon the current level of variable rate debt and assume no changes in the volume or composition of that debt and include no impact from interest income related to cash and cash equivalents. in addition, the fair value of our derivative financial instruments at december 25, 2010 and december 26, 2009 would decrease approximately $22 million and $20 million, respectively. the fair value of our senior unsecured notes at december 25, 2010 and december 26, 2009 would decrease approximately $191 million and $ 181 million, respectively. fair value was determined based on the present value of expected future cash flows considering the risks involved and using discount rates appropriate for the duration. foreign currency exchange rate risk the combined international division and china division operating profits constitute more than 65% of our operating profit in 2010, excluding unallocated income (expenses). in addition, the company's net asset exposure (defined as foreign currency assets less foreign currency liabilities) totaled approximately $3.2 billion as of december 25, 2010. operating in international markets exposes the company to movements in foreign currency exchange rates. the company's primary exposures result from our operations in asia-pacific, europe and the americas. changes in foreign currency exchange rates would impact the translation of our investments in foreign operations, the fair value of our foreign currency denominated financial instruments and our reported foreign currency denominated earnings and ca sh flows. for the fiscal year ended december 25, 2010, operating profit would have decreased approximately $135 million if all foreign currencies had uniformly weakened 10% relative to the u.s. dollar. the estimated reduction assumes no changes in sales volumes or local currency sales or input prices. we attempt to minimize the exposure related to our investments in foreign operations by financing those investments with local currency debt when practical. in addition, we attempt to minimize the exposure related to foreign currency denominated financial instruments by purchasing goods and services from third parties in local currencies when practical. consequently, foreign currency denominated financial instruments consist primarily of intercompany short-term receivables and payables. at times, we utilize forward contracts to reduce our exposure related to these intercompany short-term receivables and payables. the notional amount and maturity dates of these contracts match those of the underlying receivables or payables such that our foreign currency exchange risk related to these instruments is mini mized. commodity price risk we are subject to volatility in food costs as a result of market risk associated with commodity prices. our ability to recover increased costs through higher pricing is, at times, limited by the competitive environment in which we operate. we manage our exposure to this risk primarily through pricing agreements with our vendors. 60risk factors. you should carefully review the risks described below as they identify important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our forward-looking statements and historical trends. food safety and food-borne illness concerns may have an adverse effect on our business. food-borne illnesses, such as e. coli, hepatitis a, trichinosis or salmonella, and food safety issues have occurred in the past, and could occur in the future. any report or publicity linking us or one of our concept restaurants, including restaurants operated by our franchisees, to instances of food-borne illness or other food safety issues, including food tampering or contamination, could adversely affect our concepts' brands and reputations as well as our revenues and profits. if a customer of our concepts or franchisees becomes ill from food-borne illnesses, we and our franchisees may temporarily close some restaurants, which would decrease our revenues. in addition, instances of food-borne illness, food tampering or food contamination solely involving our suppliers or distributors or solely at restaurants of competitors could adversely affect our sales as a result of negative publicity about the foodservice industry generally. such instances of food-borne illness, food tampering and food contamination may not be within our control. the occurrence of food-borne illnesses or food safety issues could also adversely affect the price and availability of affected ingredients, which could result in disruptions in our supply chain and/or lower margins for us and our franchisees. our china operations subject us to risks that could negatively affect our business. a significant and growing portion of our restaurants are located in china. as a consequence, our financial results are increasingly dependent on our results in china, and our business is increasingly exposed to risks there. these risks include changes in economic conditions (including consumer spending, unemployment levels and wage and commodity inflation), income and non-income based tax rates and laws and consumer preferences, as well as changes in the regulatory environment and increased competition. in addition, our results of operations in china and the value of our chinese assets are affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which may adversely affect reported earnings. there can be no assurance as to the future effect of any such changes on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. in addition, any significant or prolonged deterioration in u.s.-china relations could adversely affect our china business. certain risks and uncertainties of doing business in china are solely within the control of the chinese government, and chinese law regulates the scope of our foreign investments and business conducted within china. there are also uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of laws and regulations and the enforceability of intellectual property and contract rights in china. if we were unable to enforce our intellectual property or contract rights in china, our business would be adversely impacted. 8 our other foreign operations subject us to risks that could negatively affect our business. a significant portion of our concepts' restaurants are operated in foreign countries and territories outside of the u.s. and china, and we intend to continue expansion of our international operations. as a result, our business is increasingly exposed to risks inherent in foreign operations. these risks, which can vary substantially by country, include political instability, corruption, social and ethnic unrest, changes in economic conditions (including consumer spending, unemployment levels and wage and commodity inflation), the regulatory environment, income and non-income based tax rates and laws and consumer preferences as well as changes in the laws and policies that govern foreign investment in countries where our restaurants are operated. in addition, our results of operations and the value of our foreign assets are affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which may adversely affect reported earnings. more specifically, an increase in the value of the united states dollar relative to other currencies, such as the australian dollar, the british pound, the canadian dollar and the euro, could have an adverse effect on our reported earnings. there can be no assurance as to the future effect of any such changes on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. we may not attain our target development goals, and aggressive development could cannibalize existing sales. our growth strategy depends in large part on our ability to increase our net restaurant count in markets outside the united states, especially china and other emerging markets. the successful development of new units will depend in large part on our ability and the ability of our franchisees to open new restaurants and to operate these restaurants on a profitable basis. we cannot guarantee that we, or our franchisees, will be able to achieve our expansion goals or that new restaurants will be operated profitably. further, there is no assurance that any new restaurant will produce operating results similar to those of our existing restaurants. other risks which could impact our ability to increase our net restaurant count include prevailing economic conditions and our, or our franchisees', ability to obtain suitable restaurant locations, negotiate acceptable lease or purchase terms for the locations, obtain required permits and approvals in a timely manner, hire and train qualified personnel and meet construction schedules. our franchisees also frequently depend upon financing from banks and other financial institutions in order to construct and open new restaurants. if it becomes more difficult or expensive for our franchisees to obtain financing to develop new restaurants, our planned growth could slow and our future revenue and operating cash flows could be adversely impacted. in addition, the new restaurants could impact the sales of our existing restaurants nearby. it is not our intention to open new restaurants that materially cannibalize the sales of our existing restaurants. however, as with most growing retail and restaurant operations, there can be no assurance that sales cannibalization will not occur or become more significant in the future as we increase our presence in existing markets. changes in commodity and other operating costs could adversely affect our results of operations. any increase in certain commodity prices, such as food, supply and energy costs, could adversely affect our operating results. because our concepts and their franchisees provide competitively priced food, our ability to pass along commodity price increases to our customers is limited. significant increases in gasoline prices could also result in a decrease of customer traffic at our restaurants or the imposition of fuel surcharges by our distributors, each of which could adversely affect our profit margins. our operating expenses also include employee wages and benefits and insurance costs (including workers' compensation, general liability, property and health) which may increase over time. any such increase could adversely affect our profit margins. shortages or interruptions in the availability and delivery of food and other supplies may increase costs or reduce revenues. the products sold by our concepts and their franchisees are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international suppliers. we are also dependent upon third parties to make frequent deliveries of food products and supplies that meet our specifications at competitive prices. shortages or interruptions in the supply of food items and other supplies to our restaurants could adversely affect the availability, quality and cost of items we buy and the operations of our restaurants. such shortages or disruptions could be caused by inclement weather, natural disasters such as floods, drought and hurricanes, increased demand, problems in production or distribution, the inability of our vendors to obtain credit, political instability in the countries in which foreign suppliers and distributors are located, the financial instability of suppliers and distributors, suppliers' or distributors' failure to meet our standards, product quality issues, inflation, other factors relating to the suppliers and distributors and the countries in which they are located, food safety warnings or advisories or the prospect of such pronouncements or other conditions beyond our control. a shortage or interruption in the availability of certain food products or supplies could increase costs and limit the availability of products critical to restaurant operations. in addition, failure by a principal distributor for our concepts and/or our franchisees to meet its service requirements could lead to a disruption of service or supply until a new distributor is engaged, and any disruption could have an adverse effect on our business. 9 our operating results are closely tied to the success of our concepts' franchisees. a significant portion of our revenue consists of royalties from our franchisees. because a significant and growing portion of our restaurants are run by franchisees, the success of our business is increasingly dependent upon the operational and financial success of our franchisees. while our franchise agreements set forth certain operational standards and guidelines, we have limited control over how our franchisees' businesses are run, and any significant inability of our franchisees to operate successfully could adversely affect our operating results through decreased royalty payments. for example, franchisees may not have access to the financial or management resources that they need to open or continue operating the restaurants contemplated by their franchise agreements with us. if our franchisees incur too much debt or if economic or sales trends deteriorate such that they are unable to repay existing debt, it could result in financial distress, including insolvency or bankruptcy. if a significant number of our franchisees become financially distressed, our operating results could be impacted through reduced or delayed royalty payments or increased rent obligations for leased properties on which we are contingently liable. our results and financial condition could be affected by the success of our refranchising program. we are in the process of refranchising restaurants in the u.s., which could reduce the percentage of company ownership of kfcs, pizza huts, and taco bells in the u.s. from approximately 13% at the end of 2011 to approximately 8%. our ability to execute this plan will depend on, among other things, whether we receive fair offers for these restaurants, whether we can find suitable buyers and how quickly we can consummate the sales. in addition, financing for restaurant purchases can be expensive or difficult to obtain. if buyers cannot obtain financing at attractive prices or if they are unable to obtain financing at any price our refranchising program could be delayed. once executed, the success of the refranchising program will depend on, among other things, buyers effectively operating these restaurants, the impact of contingent liabilities incurred in connection with refranchising, and whether the resulting ownership mix of company-operated and franchisee-operated restaurants allows us to meet our financial objectives. in addition, refranchising activity could vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year and that volatility could impact our reported earnings. we could be party to litigation that could adversely affect us by increasing our expenses or subjecting us to significant monetary damages and other remedies. we are involved in a number of legal proceedings, which include consumer, employment, tort and other litigation. we are currently a defendant in cases containing class action allegations in which the plaintiffs have brought claims under federal and state wage and hour and other laws. plaintiffs in these types of lawsuits often seek recovery of very large or indeterminate amounts, and the magnitude of the potential loss relating to such lawsuits may not be accurately estimated. regardless of whether any claims against us are valid, or whether we are ultimately held liable, such litigation may be expensive to defend and may divert resources away from our operations and negatively impact reported earnings. with respect to insured claims, a judgment for monetary damages in excess of any insurance coverage could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. any adverse publicity resulting from these allegations may also adversely affect our reputation, which in turn could adversely affect our results. in addition, the restaurant industry has been subject to claims that relate to the nutritional content of food products, as well as claims that the menus and practices of restaurant chains have led to the obesity of some customers. we may also be subject to this type of claim in the future and, even if we are not, publicity about these matters (particularly directed at the quick service and fast-casual segments of the industry) may harm our reputation and adversely affect our results. health concerns arising from outbreaks of viruses or other diseases may have an adverse effect on our business. asian and european countries have experienced outbreaks of avian flu, and some commentators have hypothesized that further outbreaks could occur and reach pandemic levels. future outbreaks could adversely affect the price and availability of poultry and cause customers to eat less chicken. widespread outbreaks could also affect our ability to attract and retain employees. furthermore, other viruses such as h1n1 or swine flu may be transmitted through human contact, and the risk of contracting viruses could cause employees or guests to avoid gathering in public places, which could adversely affect restaurant guest traffic or the ability to adequately staff restaurants. we could also be adversely affected if jurisdictions in which we have restaurants impose mandatory closures, seek voluntary closures or impose restrictions on operations of restaurants. even if such measures are not implemented and a virus or other disease does not spread significantly, the perceived risk of infection or significant health risk may affect our business. 10 our success depends substantially on the value and perception of our brands. our success is dependent in large part upon our ability to maintain and enhance the value of our brands and our customers' connection to our brands. brand value is based in part on consumer perceptions on a variety of subjective qualities, and even isolated business incidents can erode brand value and consumer trust, particularly if the incidents receive considerable publicity or result in litigation. for example, our brands could be damaged by claims or perceptions about the quality of our products regardless of whether such claims or perceptions are accurate. consumer demand for our products and our brand value could diminish significantly if any such incidents or other matters erode consumer confidence in us or our products, which would likely result in lower sales and, ultimately, profits. our business may be adversely impacted by general economic conditions. our results of operations are dependent upon discretionary spending by consumers, which may be affected by general economic conditions globally or in one or more of the markets we serve. some of the factors that impact discretionary consumer spending include unemployment, disposable income and consumer confidence. these and other macroeconomic factors could have an adverse effect on our sales mix, profitability or development plans, which could harm our financial condition and operating results. the impact of potentially limited credit availability on third-party vendors such as our suppliers cannot be predicted. the inability of our suppliers to access financing, or the insolvency of suppliers, could lead to disruptions in our supply chain which could adversely impact our sales, cost of sales and financial condition. changes in governmental regulations may adversely affect our business operations. our concepts and their franchisees are subject to numerous laws and regulations around the world. our restaurants are subject to state and local licensing and regulation by health, sanitation, food, workplace safety, fire and other agencies. in addition, we face risks arising from compliance with and enforcement of increasingly complex federal and state immigration laws and regulations in the u.s. we are also subject to the americans with disabilities act in the u.s. and similar state laws that give civil rights protections to individuals with disabilities in the context of employment, public accommodations and other areas. the expenses associated with any facilities modifications required by these laws could be material. our operations in the u.s. are also subject to the u.s. fair labor standards act, which governs such matters as minimum wages, overtime and other working conditions, family leave mandates and a variety of similar state laws that govern these and other employment law matters. the compliance costs associated with these laws and evolving regulations could be substantial, and any failure or alleged failure to comply with these laws could lead to litigation, which could increase our expenses and adversely affect our financial condition. we also face risks from new or changing laws and regulations relating to nutritional content, nutritional labeling, product safety and menu labeling. compliance with these laws and regulations can be costly and can increase our exposure to litigation or governmental investigations or proceedings. new or changing laws and regulations relating to union organizing rights and activities may impact our operations at the restaurant level and increase our cost of labor. in addition, we are subject to laws relating to information security, privacy, cashless payments and consumer credit, protection and fraud, and any failure or perceived failure to comply with those laws could harm our reputation or lead to litigation, which could adversely affect our financial condition. we are also subject to increasing environmental regulations, which could result in increased taxation or future restrictions on or increases in costs associated with food and other restaurant supplies, transportation and utilities, any of which could decrease our operating profits and/or necessitate future investments in our restaurant facilities and equipment to achieve compliance. the impact of current laws and regulations, the effect of future changes in laws or regulations that impose additional requirements and the consequences of litigation relating to current or future laws and regulations, or our inability to respond effectively to significant regulatory or public policy issues, could increase our compliance and other costs of doing business and therefore have an adverse effect on our results of operations. failure to comply with the laws and regulatory requirements of federal, state and local authorities could result in, among other things, revocation of required licenses, administrative enforcement actions, fines and civil and criminal liability. compliance with these laws and regulations could be costly and could increase our exposure to litigation or governmental investigations or proceedings. 11 tax matters, including changes in tax rates, disagreements with taxing authorities and imposition of new taxes could impact the company's results of operations and financial condition. a significant percentage of our profits are earned outside the u.s. and taxed at lower rates than the u.s. statutory rates. historically, the cash we generate outside the u.s. has principally been used to fund our international development. however, if the cash generated by our u.s. business is not sufficient to meet the company's need for cash in the u.s., we may need to repatriate a greater portion of our international earnings to the u.s. in the future. such international earnings would be subject to u.s. tax at the point in time we did not believe they were permanently invested outside the u.s. this could cause our worldwide effective tax rate to increase materially. we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property, withholding and franchise taxes in both the u.s. and various foreign jurisdictions. we are also subject to regular reviews, examinations and audits by the internal revenue service and other taxing authorities with respect to such income and non-income based taxes inside and outside of the u.s. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, if the irs or other taxing authority disagrees with the positions we have taken, we could face additional tax liability, including interest and penalties. there can be no assurance that payment of such additional amounts upon final adjudication of any disputes will not have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position. we are directly and indirectly affected by new tax legislation and regulation and the interpretation of tax laws and regulations worldwide. such changes could increase our taxes and have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. failure to protect the integrity and security of individually identifiable data of our customers and employees could expose us to litigation and damage our reputation. we receive and maintain certain personal information about our customers and employees. the use of this information by us is regulated by applicable law, as well as by certain third-party contracts. if our security and information systems are compromised or our business associates fail to comply with these laws and regulations and this information is obtained by unauthorized persons or used inappropriately, it could adversely affect our reputation, as well as our restaurant operations and results of operations and financial condition. additionally, we could be subject to litigation or the imposition of penalties. as privacy and information security laws and regulations change, we may incur additional costs to ensure we remain in compliance. the retail food industry in which we operate is highly competitive. the retail food industry in which we operate is highly competitive with respect to price and quality of food products, new product development, price, advertising levels and promotional initiatives, customer service, reputation, restaurant location, and attractiveness and maintenance of properties. if consumer or dietary preferences change, or our restaurants are unable to compete successfully with other retail food outlets in new and existing markets, our business could be adversely affected. we also face growing competition as a result of convergence in grocery, deli and restaurant services, including the offering by the grocery industry of convenient meals, including pizzas and entrees with side dishes. in addition, in the retail food industry, labor is a primary operating cost component. competition for qualified employees could also require us to pay higher wages to attract a sufficient number of employees, which could adversely impact our profit margins. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the company is exposed to financial market risks associated with interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices. in the normal course of business and in accordance with our policies, we manage these risks through a variety of strategies, which may include the use of financial and commodity derivative instruments to hedge our underlying exposures. our policies prohibit the use of derivative instruments for trading purposes, and we have procedures in place to monitor and control their use. interest rate risk we have a market risk exposure to changes in interest rates, principally in the u.s. we attempt to minimize this risk and lower our overall borrowing costs through the utilization of derivative financial instruments, primarily interest rate swaps. these swaps are entered into with financial institutions and have reset dates and critical terms that match those of the underlying debt. accordingly, any change in fair value associated with interest rate swaps is offset by the opposite impact on the related debt. at december 31, 2011 and december 25, 2010 a hypothetical 100 basis-point increase in short-term interest rates would result, over the following twelve-month period, in a reduction of approximately $5 million and $8 million, respectively, in income before income taxes. the estimated reductions are based upon the current level of variable rate debt and assume no changes in the volume or composition of that debt and include no impact from interest income related to cash and cash equivalents. in addition, the fair value of our derivative financial instruments at december 31, 2011 and december 25, 2010 would decrease approximately $16 million and $22 million, respectively. the fair value of our senior unsecured notes at december 31, 2011 and december 25, 2010 would decrease approximately $228 million and $191 million, respectively. fair value was determined based on the present value of expected future cash flows considering the risks involved and using discount rates appropriate for the duration. foreign currency exchange rate risk changes in foreign currency exchange rates impact the translation of our reported foreign currency denominated earnings, cash flows and net investments in foreign operations and the fair value of our foreign currency denominated financial instruments. historically, we have chosen not to hedge foreign currency risks related to our foreign currency denominated earnings and cash flows through the use of financial instruments. we attempt to minimize the exposure related to our net investments in foreign operations by financing those investments with local currency debt when practical. in addition, we attempt to minimize the exposure related to foreign currency denominated financial instruments by purchasing goods and services from third parties in local currencies when practical. consequently, foreign currency denominated financial instruments consist primarily of intercompany short-term receivables and payables. at times, we utilize forward contracts to reduce our exposure related to these intercompany short-term receivables and payables. the notional amount and maturity dates of these contracts match those of the underlying receivables or payables such that our foreign currency exchange risk related to these instruments is minimized. the combined operating profits of china and yri constitute more than 70% of our operating profit in 2011 , excluding unallocated income (expenses). in addition, the company's foreign currency net asset exposure (defined as foreign currency assets less foreign currency liabilities) totaled approximately $3.0 billion as of december 31, 2011 . operating in international markets exposes the company to movements in foreign currency exchange rates. the company's primary exposures result from our operations in asia-pacific, europe and the americas. for the fiscal year ended december 31, 2011 operating profit would have decreased approximately $170 million if all foreign currencies had uniformly weakened 10% relative to the u.s. dollar. the estimated reduction assumes no changes in sales volumes or local currency sales or input prices. commodity price risk we are subject to volatility in food costs as a result of market risk associated with commodity prices. our ability to recover increased costs through higher pricing is, at times, limited by the competitive environment in which we operate. we manage our exposure to this risk primarily through pricing agreements with our vendors. 47risk factors. you should carefully review the risks described below as they identify important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our forward-looking statements and historical trends. food safety and food-borne illness concerns may have an adverse effect on our business. food-borne illnesses, such as e. coli, hepatitis a, trichinosis or salmonella, and food safety issues have occurred in the past, and could occur in the future. any report or publicity linking us or one of our concept restaurants, including restaurants operated by our franchisees, to instances of food-borne illness or other food safety issues, including food tampering or contamination, could adversely affect our concepts' brands and reputations as well as our revenues and profits. if a customer of our concepts or franchisees becomes ill from food-borne illnesses, we and our franchisees may temporarily close some restaurants, which would decrease our revenues. in addition, instances of food-borne illness, food tampering or food contamination solely involving our suppliers or distributors or solely at restaurants of competitors could adversely affect our sales as a result of negative publicity about the foodservice industry generally. such instances of food-borne illness, food tampering and food contamination may not be within our control. the occurrence of food-borne illnesses or food safety issues could also adversely affect the price and availability of affected ingredients, which could result in disruptions in our supply chain and/or lower margins for us and our franchisees. our china operations subject us to risks that could negatively affect our business. a significant and growing portion of our restaurants are located in china. as a consequence, our financial results are increasingly dependent on our results in china, and our business is increasingly exposed to risks there. these risks include changes in economic conditions (including consumer spending, unemployment levels and wage and commodity inflation), income and non-income based tax rates and laws and consumer preferences, as well as changes in the regulatory environment and increased competition. in addition, our results of operations in china and the value of our chinese assets are affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which may adversely affect reported earnings. there can be no assurance as to the future effect of any such changes on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. in addition, any significant or prolonged deterioration in u.s.-china relations could adversely affect our china business. certain risks and uncertainties of doing business in china are solely within the control of the chinese government, and chinese law regulates the scope of our foreign investments and business conducted within china. there are also uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of laws and regulations and the enforceability of intellectual property and contract rights in china. if we were unable to enforce our intellectual property or contract rights in china, our business would be adversely impacted. our foreign operations subject us to risks that could negatively affect our business. a significant portion of our concepts' restaurants are operated in countries and territories outside of the u.s., and we intend to continue expansion of our international operations. as a result, our business is increasingly exposed to risks inherent in foreign operations. these risks, which can vary substantially by country, include political instability, corruption, social and ethnic unrest, changes in economic conditions (including consumer spending, unemployment levels and wage and commodity inflation), the 8 regulatory environment, income and non-income based tax rates and laws and consumer preferences as well as changes in the laws and policies that govern foreign investment in countries where our restaurants are operated. in addition, our results of operations and the value of our foreign assets are affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which may adversely affect reported earnings. more specifically, an increase in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to other currencies, such as the australian dollar, the british pound, the canadian dollar and the euro, could have an adverse effect on our reported earnings. there can be no assurance as to the future effect of any such changes on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. we may not attain our target development goals, and aggressive development could cannibalize existing sales. our growth strategy depends in large part on our ability to increase our net restaurant count in markets outside the u.s., especially china and other emerging markets. the successful development of new units will depend in large part on our ability and the ability of our franchisees to open new restaurants and to operate these restaurants on a profitable basis. we cannot guarantee that we, or our franchisees, will be able to achieve our expansion goals or that new restaurants will be operated profitably. further, there is no assurance that any new restaurant will produce operating results similar to those of our existing restaurants. other risks which could impact our ability to increase our net restaurant count include prevailing economic conditions and our, or our franchisees' ability to obtain suitable restaurant locations, negotiate acceptable lease or purchase terms for the locations, obtain required permits and approvals in a timely manner, hire and train qualified personnel and meet construction schedules. expansion into target markets could also be affected by our franchisees' ability to obtain financing to construct and open new restaurants. if it becomes more difficult or expensive for our franchisees to obtain financing to develop new restaurants, our planned growth could slow and our future revenue and operating cash flows could be adversely impacted. in addition, the new restaurants could impact the sales of our existing restaurants nearby. there can be no assurance that sales cannibalization will not occur or become more significant in the future as we increase our presence in existing markets. changes in commodity and other operating costs could adversely affect our results of operations. any increase in certain commodity prices, such as food, supply and energy costs, could adversely affect our operating results. because our concepts and their franchisees provide competitively priced food, our ability to pass along commodity price increases to our customers is limited. significant increases in gasoline prices could also result in a decrease of customer traffic at our restaurants or the imposition of fuel surcharges by our distributors, each of which could adversely affect our profit margins. our operating expenses also include employee wages and benefits and insurance costs (including workers' compensation, general liability, property and health) which may increase over time. any such increase could adversely affect our profit margins. shortages or interruptions in the availability and delivery of food and other supplies may increase costs or reduce revenues. the products sold by our concepts and their franchisees are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international suppliers. we are also dependent upon third parties to make frequent deliveries of food products and supplies that meet our specifications at competitive prices. shortages or interruptions in the supply of food items and other supplies to our restaurants could adversely affect the availability, quality and cost of items we buy and the operations of our restaurants. such shortages or disruptions could be caused by inclement weather, natural disasters such as floods, drought and hurricanes, increased demand, problems in production or distribution, the inability of our vendors to obtain credit, political instability in the countries in which foreign suppliers and distributors are located, the financial instability of suppliers and distributors, suppliers' or distributors' failure to meet our standards, product quality issues, inflation, other factors relating to the suppliers and distributors and the countries in which they are located, food safety warnings or advisories or the prospect of such pronouncements or other conditions beyond our control. a shortage or interruption in the availability of certain food products or supplies could increase costs and limit the availability of products critical to restaurant operations. in addition, failure by a principal distributor for our concepts and/or our franchisees to meet its service requirements could lead to a disruption of service or supply until a new distributor is engaged, and any disruption could have an adverse effect on our business. our operating results are closely tied to the success of our concepts' franchisees. a significant portion of our restaurants are operated by franchisees from whom we derive a significant portion of our revenue in the form of royalty payments. as a result, the success of our business depends in part upon the operational and financial success of our franchisees. we have limited control over how our franchisees' businesses are run, and the inability of our franchisees to operate successfully could adversely affect our operating results through decreased royalty payments. 9 if our franchisees incur too much debt or if economic or sales trends deteriorate such that they are unable to repay existing debt, it could result in financial distress, including insolvency or bankruptcy. if a significant franchisee or a significant number of our franchisees become financially distressed, our operating results could be impacted through reduced or delayed royalty payments or increased rent obligations for leased properties on which we are contingently liable. we could be party to litigation that could adversely affect us by increasing our expenses or subjecting us to significant monetary damages and other remedies. we are involved in a number of legal proceedings, which include consumer, employment, tort and other litigation. we are currently a defendant in cases containing class action allegations in which the plaintiffs have brought claims under federal and state wage and hour, disability and other laws. plaintiffs in these types of lawsuits often seek recovery of very large or indeterminate amounts, and the magnitude of the potential loss relating to such lawsuits may not be accurately estimated. regardless of whether any claims against us are valid, or whether we are ultimately held liable, such litigation may be expensive to defend and may divert resources away from our operations and negatively impact reported earnings. with respect to insured claims, a judgment for monetary damages in excess of any insurance coverage could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. any adverse publicity resulting from these allegations may also adversely affect our reputation, which in turn could adversely affect our results. in addition, the restaurant industry has been subject to claims that relate to the nutritional content of food products, as well as claims that the menus and practices of restaurant chains have led to the obesity of some customers. we may also be subject to this type of claim in the future and, even if we are not, publicity about these matters (particularly directed at the quick service and fast-casual segments of the industry) may harm our reputation and adversely affect our results. health concerns arising from outbreaks of viruses or other diseases may have an adverse effect on our business. outbreaks of avian flu have occurred in the past, and it is possible that further outbreaks could occur and reach pandemic levels. future outbreaks could adversely affect the price and availability of poultry and cause customers to eat less chicken, which could negatively impact our profit margins, sales and revenues. widespread outbreaks could also affect our ability to attract and retain employees. furthermore, other viruses such as h1n1 or swine flu may be transmitted through human contact, and the risk of contracting viruses could cause employees or guests to avoid gathering in public places, which could adversely affect restaurant guest traffic or the ability to adequately staff restaurants. we could also be adversely affected if jurisdictions in which we have restaurants impose mandatory closures, seek voluntary closures or impose restrictions on operations of restaurants. even if such measures are not implemented and a virus or other disease does not spread significantly, the perceived risk of infection or health risk may affect our business. our success depends substantially on the value and perception of our brands. our success is dependent in large part upon our ability to maintain and enhance the value of our brands and our customers' connection to our brands. brand value is based in part on consumer perceptions on a variety of subjective qualities, and even isolated business incidents can erode brand value and consumer trust, particularly if the incidents receive considerable publicity or result in litigation. for example, our brands could be damaged by claims or perceptions about the quality of our products regardless of whether such claims or perceptions are accurate. consumer demand for our products and our brand value could diminish significantly if any such incidents or other matters erode consumer confidence in us or our products, which would likely result in lower sales and, ultimately, profits. our results and financial condition could be affected by the success of our refranchising program. we are in the process of refranchising restaurants in the u.s., which has reduced and is expected to continue to reduce the percentage of company ownership of kfcs, pizza huts, and taco bells in the u.s. once executed, the success of the refranchising program will depend on, among other things, buyers effectively operating these restaurants, the impact of contingent liabilities incurred in connection with refranchising, and whether the resulting ownership mix of company-operated and franchisee-operated restaurants allows us to meet our financial objectives. in addition, refranchising activity could vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year and that volatility could impact our reported earnings. 10 our business may be adversely impacted by general economic conditions. our results of operations are dependent upon discretionary spending by consumers, which may be affected by general economic conditions globally or in one or more of the markets we serve. some of the factors that impact discretionary consumer spending include unemployment, disposable income and consumer confidence. these and other macroeconomic factors could have an adverse effect on our sales mix, profitability or development plans, which could harm our financial condition and operating results. changes in governmental regulations may adversely affect our business operations. our concepts and their franchisees are subject to numerous laws and regulations around the world. these laws change regularly and are increasingly complex. for example, we are subject to: the americans with disabilities act in the u.s. and similar state laws that give civil rights protections to individuals with disabilities in the context of employment, public accommodations and other areas. the u.s. fair labor standards act, which governs matters such as minimum wages, overtime and other working conditions, family leave mandates and a variety of similar state laws that govern these and other employment law matters. anti-bribery and corruption laws such as the foreign corrupt practices act, the uk bribery act and similar laws. new or changing laws and regulations relating to nutritional content, nutritional labeling, product safety and menu labeling. new or changing laws relating to state and local licensing. new or changing laws and regulations relating to health, sanitation, food, workplace safety and fire safety and prevention. new or changing laws and regulations relating to union organizing rights and activities. new or changing laws relating to information security, privacy, cashless payments and consumer credit, protection and fraud. new or changing environmental regulations. new or changing federal and state immigration laws and regulations in the u.s. new laws or changes in law could result in increased taxes, and compliance with new or existing laws and regulations could impact our operations. in addition, the compliance costs associated with these laws and regulations could be substantial, and any failure or alleged failure to comply with these laws or regulations could increase our exposure to litigation and governmental investigations or proceedings, which could increase our expenses and adversely affect our reputation and financial condition. failure to comply with the laws and regulatory requirements of federal, state and local authorities could result in, among other things, revocation of required licenses, administrative enforcement actions, fines and civil and criminal liability. tax matters, including changes in tax rates, disagreements with taxing authorities and imposition of new taxes could impact the company's results of operations and financial condition. a significant percentage of our profits are earned outside the u.s. and taxed at lower rates than the u.s. statutory rates. historically, the cash we generate outside the u.s. has principally been used to fund our international development. however, if the cash generated by our u.s. business is not sufficient to meet the company's need for cash in the u.s., we may need to repatriate a greater portion of our international earnings to the u.s. in the future. such international earnings would be subject to u.s. tax at the point in time we did not believe they were permanently invested outside the u.s. this could cause our worldwide effective tax rate to increase materially. we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property, withholding and franchise taxes in both the u.s. and various foreign jurisdictions. we are also subject to regular reviews, examinations and audits by the internal revenue service and other taxing authorities with respect to such income and non-income based taxes inside and outside of the u.s. if the irs or another taxing authority disagrees with our tax positions, we could face additional tax liability, including interest and penalties. payment of such additional amounts upon final settlement or adjudication of any disputes could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position. in addition, we are directly and indirectly affected by new tax legislation and regulation and the interpretation of tax laws and regulations worldwide. such changes could increase our taxes and have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. 11 failure to protect the integrity and security of individually identifiable data of our customers and employees could expose us to litigation and damage our reputation. we receive and maintain certain personal information about our customers and employees. the use of this information by us is regulated by applicable law, as well as by certain third-party contracts. if our security and information systems are compromised or our business associates fail to comply with these laws and regulations and this information is obtained by unauthorized persons or used inappropriately, it could adversely affect our reputation, as well as our restaurant operations and results of operations and financial condition. additionally, we could be subject to litigation or the imposition of penalties. as privacy and information security laws and regulations change, we may incur additional costs to ensure we remain in compliance. the retail food industry in which we operate is highly competitive. the retail food industry in which we operate is highly competitive with respect to price and quality of food products, new product development, advertising levels and promotional initiatives, customer service, reputation, restaurant location, and attractiveness and maintenance of properties. if consumer or dietary preferences change, or our restaurants are unable to compete successfully with other retail food outlets in new and existing markets, our business could be adversely affected. we also face growing competition as a result of convergence in grocery, deli and restaurant services, including the offering by the grocery industry of convenient meals, including pizzas and entrees with side dishes. in addition, in the retail food industry, labor is a primary operating cost component. competition for qualified employees could also require us to pay higher wages to attract a sufficient number of employees, which could adversely impact our profit margins. certain aspects of the recently-acquired little sheep business could create additional risk. on february 1, 2012 we acquired an additional 66% interest in little sheep group limited ( little sheep ) increasing our ownership to 93%. we have limited or no experience with certain aspects of the little sheep business, including the methods of cooking involved in hot pot restaurants, the manufacturing of soup base seasoning for store and retail use as well as the minority ownership by little sheep of a meat processing facility in inner mongolia. risks related to these aspects of little sheep's business could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the company is exposed to financial market risks associated with interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices. in the normal course of business and in accordance with our policies, we manage these risks through a variety of strategies, which may include the use of financial and commodity derivative instruments to hedge our underlying exposures. our policies prohibit the use of derivative instruments for trading purposes, and we have processes in place to monitor and control their use. interest rate risk we have a market risk exposure to changes in interest rates, principally in the u.s. we attempt to minimize this risk and lower our overall borrowing costs through the utilization of derivative financial instruments, primarily interest rate swaps. these swaps are entered into with financial institutions and have reset dates and critical terms that match those of the underlying debt. accordingly, any change in fair value associated with interest rate swaps is offset by the opposite impact on the related debt. 48 at december 29, 2012 and december 31, 2011 a hypothetical 100 basis-point increase in short-term interest rates would result, over the following twelve-month period, in a reduction of approximately $3 million and $5 million, respectively, in income before income taxes. the estimated reductions are based upon the current level of variable rate debt and assume no changes in the volume or composition of that debt and include no impact from interest income related to cash and cash equivalents. in addition, the fair value of our derivative financial instruments at december 29, 2012 and december 31, 2011 would decrease approximately $10 million and $16 million, respectively, as a result of the same hypothetical 100 basis-point increase and the fair value of our senior unsecured notes at december 29, 2012 and december 31, 2011 would decrease approximately $225 million and $228 million, respectively. fair value was determined based on the present value of expected future cash flows considering the risks involved and using discount rates appropriate for the duration. foreign currency exchange rate risk changes in foreign currency exchange rates impact the translation of our reported foreign currency denominated earnings, cash flows and net investments in foreign operations and the fair value of our foreign currency denominated financial instruments. historically, we have chosen not to hedge foreign currency risks related to our foreign currency denominated earnings and cash flows through the use of financial instruments. we attempt to minimize the exposure related to our net investments in foreign operations by financing those investments with local currency debt when practical. in addition, we attempt to minimize the exposure related to foreign currency denominated financial instruments by purchasing goods and services from third parties in local currencies when practical. consequently, foreign currency denominated financial instruments consist primarily of intercompany short-term receivables and payables. at times, we utilize forward contracts to reduce our exposure related to these intercompany short-term receivables and payables. the notional amount and maturity dates of these contracts match those of the underlying receivables or payables such that our foreign currency exchange risk related to these instruments is minimized. the combined operating profits of china, yri and india constitute more than 70% of our segment operating profit in 2012 , excluding unallocated income (expenses). in addition, the company's foreign currency net asset exposure (defined as foreign currency assets less foreign currency liabilities) totaled approximately $4.2 billion as of december 29, 2012 . operating in international markets exposes the company to movements in foreign currency exchange rates. the company's primary exposures result from our operations in asia-pacific, europe and the americas. for the fiscal year ended december 29, 2012 operating profit would have decreased approximately $190 million if all foreign currencies had uniformly weakened 10% relative to the u.s. dollar. this estimated reduction assumes no changes in sales volumes or local currency sales or input prices. commodity price risk we are subject to volatility in food costs as a result of market risk associated with commodity prices. our ability to recover increased costs through higher pricing is, at times, limited by the competitive environment in which we operate. we manage our exposure to this risk primarily through pricing agreements with our vendors. 49risk factors. you should carefully review the risks described below as they identify important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our forward-looking statements and historical trends. food safety and food-borne illness concerns may have an adverse effect on our business. food-borne illnesses, such as e. coli, hepatitis a, trichinosis or salmonella, and food safety issues, such as food tampering, contamination or adulteration, have occurred in the past and could occur in the future. any report or publicity linking us or one of our concept restaurants, including restaurants operated by our concepts' franchisees, to instances of food-borne illness or food safety issues could adversely affect our concepts' brands and reputations as well as our revenues and profits and possibly lead to litigation. if a customer of our concepts becomes ill from food-borne illnesses or as a result of food safety issues, restaurants in our system may be temporarily closed, which would decrease our revenues. in addition, instances or allegations of food-borne illness or food safety issues, real or perceived, involving our restaurants, restaurants of competitors, suppliers or distributors (regardless of whether we use or have used those suppliers or distributors), or otherwise involving the types of food served at our restaurants, could result in negative publicity that could adversely affect our sales. the occurrence of food-borne illnesses or food safety issues could also adversely affect the price and availability of affected ingredients, which could result in disruptions in our supply chain and/or lower margins for us and our concepts' franchisees. our significant china operations subject us to risks that could negatively affect our business. a significant and growing portion of our restaurants are located, and our revenues and profits originate, in china. as a consequence, our financial results are increasingly dependent on our results in china, and our business is increasingly exposed to risks there. these risks include changes in economic conditions (including consumer spending, unemployment levels and wage and commodity inflation), income and non-income based tax rates and laws and consumer preferences, as well as changes in the regulatory environment and increased competition. in addition, our results of operations in china and the value of our chinese assets are affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which may adversely affect reported earnings. there can be no assurance as to the future effect of any such changes on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. in addition, any significant or prolonged deterioration in u.s.-china relations could adversely affect our china business. certain risks and uncertainties of doing business in china are solely within the control of the chinese government, and chinese law regulates the scope of our foreign investments and business conducted within china. there are also uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of laws and regulations and the enforceability of intellectual property and contract rights in china. if we were unable to enforce our intellectual property or contract rights in china, our business would be adversely impacted. health concerns arising from outbreaks of viruses or other diseases may have an adverse effect on our business. outbreaks of avian flu occur from time to time around the world, including in china where a significant portion of our profits and revenues originate. it is possible that outbreaks in china and elsewhere could reach pandemic levels. public concern over avian flu generally may cause fear about the consumption of chicken, eggs and other products derived from poultry, which could cause customers to consume less poultry and related products. this would likely result in lower revenues and profits. avian flu outbreaks could also adversely affect the price and availability of poultry, which could negatively impact our profit margins and revenues. widespread outbreaks could also affect our ability to attract and retain employees. furthermore, other viruses such as h1n1 or swine flu may be transmitted through human contact, and the risk of contracting viruses could cause employees or guests to avoid gathering in public places, which could adversely affect restaurant guest traffic or the ability to adequately staff restaurants. we could also be adversely affected if jurisdictions in which we have restaurants impose mandatory closures, seek voluntary closures or impose restrictions on operations of restaurants. even if such measures are not implemented and a virus or other disease does not spread significantly, the perceived risk of infection or health risk may affect our business. 8 our foreign operations subject us to risks that could negatively affect our business. a significant portion of our concepts' restaurants are operated in countries and territories outside of the u.s., and we intend to continue expansion of our international operations. as a result, our business is increasingly exposed to risks inherent in foreign operations. these risks, which can vary substantially by country, include political instability, corruption, social and ethnic unrest, changes in economic conditions (including consumer spending, unemployment levels and wage and commodity inflation), the regulatory environment, income and non-income based tax rates and laws and consumer preferences as well as changes in the laws and policies that govern foreign investment in countries where our restaurants are operated. in addition, our results of operations and the value of our foreign assets are affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which may adversely affect reported earnings. more specifically, an increase in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to other currencies, such as the australian dollar, the british pound, the canadian dollar and the euro, as well as currencies in certain emerging markets, could have an adverse effect on our reported earnings. there can be no assurance as to the future effect of any such changes on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. failure to protect the integrity and security of personal information of our customers and employees could result in substantial costs, expose us to litigation and damage our reputation. we receive and maintain certain personal information about our customers and employees. the use of this information is regulated by applicable law, as well as by certain third-party contracts. if our security and information systems are compromised or our employees, franchisees or vendors fail to comply with these laws and regulations and this information is obtained by unauthorized persons or used inappropriately, it could result in liabilities and penalties and could damage our reputation, cause us to incur substantial costs and result in a loss of customer confidence, which could adversely affect our restaurant operations and results of operations and financial condition. additionally, we could be subject to litigation, government enforcement actions and private litigation as a result of any such failure. shortages or interruptions in the availability and delivery of food and other supplies may increase costs or reduce revenues. the products sold by our concepts and their franchisees are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international suppliers. we are also dependent upon third parties to make frequent deliveries of food products and supplies that meet our specifications at competitive prices. shortages or interruptions in the supply of food items and other supplies to our restaurants could adversely affect the availability, quality and cost of items we buy and the operations of our restaurants. such shortages or disruptions could be caused by inclement weather, natural disasters such as floods, drought and hurricanes, increased demand, problems in production or distribution, the inability of our vendors to obtain credit, political instability in the countries in which foreign suppliers and distributors are located, the financial instability of suppliers and distributors, suppliers' or distributors' failure to meet our standards, product quality issues, inflation, other factors relating to the suppliers and distributors and the countries in which they are located, food safety warnings or advisories or the prospect of such pronouncements or other conditions beyond our control. a shortage or interruption in the availability of certain food products or supplies could increase costs and limit the availability of products critical to restaurant operations, which in turn could lead to restaurant closures and/or a decrease in sales. in addition, failure by a principal distributor for our concepts and/or our concepts' franchisees to meet its service requirements could lead to a disruption of service or supply until a new distributor is engaged, and any disruption could have an adverse effect on our business. we may not attain our target development goals, and aggressive development could cannibalize existing sales. our growth strategy depends in large part on our ability to increase our net restaurant count in markets outside the u.s., especially china and other emerging markets. the successful development of new units will depend in large part on our ability and the ability of our concepts' franchisees to open new restaurants and to operate these restaurants on a profitable basis. we cannot guarantee that we, or our concepts' franchisees, will be able to achieve our expansion goals or that new restaurants will be operated profitably. further, there is no assurance that any new restaurant will produce operating results similar to those of our existing restaurants. other risks which could impact our ability to increase our net restaurant count include prevailing economic conditions and our, or our concepts' franchisees' ability to obtain suitable restaurant locations, negotiate acceptable lease or purchase terms for the locations, obtain required permits and approvals in a timely manner, hire and train qualified personnel and meet construction schedules. expansion into target markets could also be affected by our concepts' franchisees' ability to obtain financing to construct and open new restaurants. if it becomes more difficult or more expensive for our concepts' franchisees to obtain financing to develop new restaurants, the expected growth of our system could slow and our future revenues and operating cash flows could be adversely impacted. 9 in addition, the new restaurants could impact the sales of our existing restaurants nearby. there can be no assurance that sales cannibalization will not occur or become more significant in the future as we increase our presence in existing markets. changes in commodity and other operating costs could adversely affect our results of operations. any increase in certain commodity prices, such as food, supply and energy costs, could adversely affect our operating results. because our concepts and their franchisees provide competitively priced food, our ability to pass along commodity price increases to our customers is limited. significant increases in gasoline prices could also result in a decrease of customer traffic at our restaurants or the imposition of fuel surcharges by our distributors, each of which could adversely affect our profit margins. our operating expenses also include employee wages and benefits and insurance costs (including workers' compensation, general liability, property and health) which may increase over time. any such increase could adversely affect our profit margins. our operating results are closely tied to the success of our concepts' franchisees. a significant portion of our restaurants are operated by franchisees from whom we derive a significant portion of our revenues in the form of royalty payments. as a result, the success of our business depends in part upon the operational and financial success of our concepts' franchisees. we have limited control over how our concepts' franchisees' businesses are run, and the inability of our concepts' franchisees to operate successfully could adversely affect our operating results through decreased royalty payments. if franchisees incur too much debt or if economic or sales trends deteriorate such that they are unable to operate profitably or repay existing debt, it could result in financial distress, including insolvency or bankruptcy. if a significant franchisee or a significant number of our concepts' franchisees become financially distressed, our operating results could be impacted through reduced or delayed royalty payments or increased rent obligations for leased properties on which we are contingently liable. our success depends substantially on the value and perception of our brands. our success depends in large part upon our ability to maintain and enhance the value of our brands and our customers' connection to our brands. brand value is based in part on consumer perceptions on a variety of subjective qualities. business incidents, whether isolated or recurring and whether originating from us, our franchisees or suppliers, can significantly reduce brand value and consumer trust, particularly if the incidents receive considerable publicity or result in litigation. for example, our brands could be damaged by claims or perceptions about the quality or safety of our products or the quality of our suppliers, regardless of whether such claims or perceptions are true. any such incident could cause a decline in consumer confidence in, or the perception of, our concepts and/or our products and decrease the value of our brands as well as consumer demand for our products, which would likely result in lower revenues and profits. our inability or failure to recognize, respond to and effectively manage the accelerated impact of social media could materially adversely impact our business. there has been a marked increase in the use of social media platforms, including weblogs (blogs), social media websites, and other forms of internet-based communications which allow individuals access to a broad audience of consumers and other interested persons. many social media platforms immediately publish the content their subscribers and participants post, often without filters or checks on accuracy of the content posted. information posted on such platforms at any time may be adverse to our interests and/or may be inaccurate. the dissemination of information online could harm our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations, regardless of the information's accuracy. the harm may be immediate without affording us an opportunity for redress or correction. other risks associated with the use of social media include improper disclosure of proprietary information, negative comments about our concepts, exposure of personally identifiable information, fraud and out-of-date information. the inappropriate use of social media by our customers or employees could increase our costs, lead to litigation or result in negative publicity that could damage our reputation. a suspension of the chinese affiliates of the big four accounting firms may impact our ability to access capital markets and could result in other material adverse effects. in january 2014, a u.s. administrative law court issued an initial ruling to suspend chinese affiliates of the global big four accounting firms, including the chinese affiliate of our independent auditor, from auditing u.s.-listed companies for six months. while we believe the likelihood of the suspension becoming effective is remote, it is difficult to determine the potential consequences 10 if the ruling is sustained. however, given the significance of our china division to our consolidated financial statements, it is possible that we would be unable to include audited and/or reviewed consolidated financial statements in the quarterly reports on form 10-q and annual reports on form 10-k that we are required to file with the sec. as a result, we could be unable to file our reports in a timely manner or such filings would be considered deficient. until such reviews or audits are completed, our filings under the exchange act could continue to be deficient or untimely, and our ability to access the capital markets could be significantly limited. these issues could render us temporarily ineligible for use of both shelf registration and short-form registration that allows us to incorporate our prior filings by reference. our inability to satisfy our reporting obligations as a public company may lead the new york stock exchange to commence delisting procedures with respect to our common shares. in addition, the failure to deliver audited financial statements could also constitute an event of default under our credit facility. moreover, any negative news about the proceedings against the big four audit firms could erode investor confidence in financial statements relating to our chinese operations. we could be party to litigation that could adversely affect us by increasing our expenses or subjecting us to significant monetary damages and other remedies. from time to time we are involved in a number of legal proceedings, which include consumer, employment, tort, patent, securities, derivative and other litigation (see the discussion of legal proceedings in note 19 to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this report). we are currently a defendant in cases containing class action allegations in which the plaintiffs have brought claims under federal and state wage and hour, disability and other laws. we are also currently a defendant in securities and derivative lawsuits alleging inadequate disclosures in violation of federal securities laws. plaintiffs in these types of lawsuits often seek recovery of very large or indeterminate amounts, and the magnitude of the potential loss relating to such lawsuits may not be accurately estimated. regardless of whether any claims against us are valid, or whether we are ultimately held liable, such litigation may be expensive to defend and may divert resources away from our operations and negatively impact reported earnings. with respect to insured claims, a judgment for monetary damages in excess of any insurance coverage could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. any adverse publicity resulting from these allegations may also adversely affect our reputation, which in turn could adversely affect our results. in addition, the restaurant industry has been subject to claims that relate to the nutritional content of food products, as well as claims that the menus and practices of restaurant chains have led to the obesity of some customers. we may also be subject to this type of claim in the future and, even if we are not, publicity about these matters (particularly directed at the quick service and fast-casual segments of the industry) may harm our reputation and adversely affect our results. changes in, or noncompliance with, governmental regulations may adversely affect our business operations, growth prospects or financial condition. our concepts and their franchisees are subject to numerous laws and regulations around the world. these laws change regularly and are increasingly complex. for example, we are subject to: the americans with disabilities act in the u.s. and similar state laws that give civil rights protections to individuals with disabilities in the context of employment, public accommodations and other areas. the u.s. fair labor standards act, which governs matters such as minimum wages, overtime and other working conditions, family leave mandates and a variety of similar state laws that govern these and other employment law matters. anti-bribery and corruption laws and regulations, such as the foreign corrupt practices act, the uk bribery act and similar laws, which are the subject of increasing scrutiny and enforcement around the world. new or changing laws and regulations in government-mandated health care benefits such as the patient protection and affordable care act. new or changing laws and regulations relating to nutritional content, nutritional labeling, product safety and menu labeling. new or changing laws relating to state and local licensing. new or changing laws and regulations relating to health, sanitation, food, workplace safety and fire safety and prevention. new or changing laws and regulations relating to union organizing rights and activities. new or changing laws relating to information security, privacy, cashless payments and consumer credit, protection and fraud. new or changing environmental regulations. new or changing federal and state immigration laws and regulations in the u.s. compliance with new or existing laws and regulations could impact our operations. in addition, the compliance costs associated with these laws and regulations could be substantial. any failure or alleged failure to comply with these laws or regulations could adversely affect our reputation, international expansion efforts, growth prospects and financial condition or result in, among other things, litigation, revocation of required licenses, governmental investigations or proceedings, administrative enforcement actions, 11 fines and civil and criminal liability. publicity relating to any such noncompliance could also harm our reputation and adversely affect our revenues. tax matters, including changes in tax rates, disagreements with taxing authorities and imposition of new taxes could impact our results of operations and financial condition. a significant percentage of our profits are earned outside the u.s. and taxed at lower rates than the u.s. statutory rates. historically, the cash we generate outside the u.s. has principally been used to fund our international development. however, if the cash generated by our u.s. business is not sufficient to meet our need for cash in the u.s., we may need to repatriate a greater portion of our international earnings to the u.s. in the future. we are required to record u.s. income tax expense in our financial statements at the point in time when our management determines that such funds are not permanently invested outside the u.s. this could cause our worldwide effective tax rate to increase materially. we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property, withholding and franchise taxes in both the u.s. and various foreign jurisdictions. we are also subject to regular reviews, examinations and audits by the internal revenue service and other taxing authorities with respect to such income and non-income based taxes inside and outside of the u.s. if the irs or another taxing authority disagrees with our tax positions, we could face additional tax liability, including interest and penalties. payment of such additional amounts upon final settlement or adjudication of any disputes could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position. in addition, we are directly and indirectly affected by new tax legislation and regulation and the interpretation of tax laws and regulations worldwide. changes in such legislation, regulation or interpretation could increase our taxes and have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. our business may be adversely impacted by general economic conditions. our results of operations are dependent upon discretionary spending by consumers, which may be affected by general economic conditions globally or in one or more of the markets we serve. some of the factors that impact discretionary consumer spending include unemployment, disposable income and consumer confidence. these and other macroeconomic factors could have an adverse effect on our sales, profitability or development plans, which could harm our financial condition and operating results. the retail food industry in which we operate is highly competitive. the retail food industry in which we operate is highly competitive with respect to price and quality of food products, new product development, advertising levels and promotional initiatives, customer service, reputation, restaurant location, and attractiveness and maintenance of properties. if consumer or dietary preferences change, or our restaurants are unable to compete successfully with other retail food outlets in new and existing markets, our business could be adversely affected. we also face growing competition as a result of convergence in grocery, deli and restaurant services, including the offering by the grocery industry of convenient meals, including pizzas and entrees with side dishes. in addition, in the retail food industry, labor is a primary operating cost component. competition for qualified employees could also require us to pay higher wages to attract a sufficient number of employees, which could adversely impact our profit margins. 12 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the company is exposed to financial market risks associated with interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices. in the normal course of business and in accordance with our policies, we manage these risks through a variety of strategies, which may include the use of financial and commodity derivative instruments to hedge our underlying exposures. our policies prohibit the use of derivative instruments for trading purposes, and we have processes in place to monitor and control their use. 50 interest rate risk we have a market risk exposure to changes in interest rates, principally in the u.s. we attempt to minimize this risk and lower our overall borrowing costs on a portion of our debt through the utilization of derivative financial instruments, primarily interest rate swaps. these swaps are entered into with financial institutions and have reset dates and critical terms that match those of the underlying debt. accordingly, any change in fair value associated with interest rate swaps is offset by the opposite impact on the related debt. at both december 28, 2013 and december 29, 2012 a hypothetical 100 basis-point increase in short-term interest rates would result, over the following twelve-month period, in a reduction of approximately $3 million in income before income taxes. the estimated reductions are based upon the current level of variable rate debt and assume no changes in the volume or composition of that debt and include no impact from interest income related to cash and cash equivalents. in addition, the fair value of our derivative financial instruments at december 28, 2013 and december 29, 2012 would decrease approximately $7 million and $10 million, respectively, as a result of the same hypothetical 100 basis-point increase and the fair value of our senior unsecured notes at december 28, 2013 and december 29, 2012 would decrease approximately $185 million and $225 million, respectively. fair value was determined based on the present value of expected future cash flows considering the risks involved and using discount rates appropriate for the duration. foreign currency exchange rate risk changes in foreign currency exchange rates impact the translation of our reported foreign currency denominated earnings, cash flows and net investments in foreign operations and the fair value of our foreign currency denominated financial instruments. historically, we have chosen not to hedge foreign currency risks related to our foreign currency denominated earnings and cash flows through the use of financial instruments. we attempt to minimize the exposure related to our net investments in foreign operations by financing those investments with local currency debt when practical. in addition, we attempt to minimize the exposure related to foreign currency denominated financial instruments by purchasing goods and services from third parties in local currencies when practical. consequently, foreign currency denominated financial instruments consist primarily of intercompany short-term receivables and payables. at times, we utilize forward contracts to reduce our exposure related to these intercompany short-term receivables and payables. the notional amount and maturity dates of these contracts match those of the underlying receivables or payables such that our foreign currency exchange risk related to these instruments is minimized. the combined operating profits of china, yri and india constitute approximately 70% of our segment operating profit in 2013 . in addition, the company's foreign currency net asset exposure (defined as foreign currency assets less foreign currency liabilities) totaled approximately $4.2 billion as of december 28, 2013 . operating in international markets exposes the company to movements in foreign currency exchange rates. the company's primary exposures result from our operations in asia-pacific, europe and the americas. for the fiscal year ended december 28, 2013 operating profit would have decreased approximately $155 million if all foreign currencies had uniformly weakened 10% relative to the u.s. dollar. this estimated reduction assumes no changes in sales volumes or local currency sales or input prices. commodity price risk we are subject to volatility in food costs as a result of market risk associated with commodity prices. our ability to recover increased costs through higher pricing is, at times, limited by the competitive environment in which we operate. we manage our exposure to this risk primarily through pricing agreements with our vendors. 51risk factors. you should carefully review the risks described below as they identify important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our forward-looking statements and historical trends. food safety and food-borne illness concerns may have an adverse effect on our business. food-borne illnesses, such as e. coli, hepatitis a, trichinosis or salmonella, and food safety issues, such as food tampering, contamination or adulteration, have occurred in the past and could occur in the future. any report or publicity linking us or one of our concept restaurants, including restaurants operated by our concepts' franchisees, to instances of food-borne illness or food safety issues could adversely affect our concepts' brands and reputations as well as our revenues and profits and possibly lead to litigation. if a customer of our concepts becomes ill from food-borne illnesses or as a result of food safety issues, restaurants in our system may be temporarily closed, which would decrease our revenues. in addition, instances or allegations of food-borne illness or food safety issues, real or perceived, involving our restaurants, restaurants of competitors, suppliers or distributors (regardless of whether we use or have used those suppliers or distributors), or otherwise involving the types of food served at our 7 restaurants, could result in negative publicity that could adversely affect our sales. the occurrence of food-borne illnesses or food safety issues could also adversely affect the price and availability of affected ingredients, which could result in disruptions in our supply chain and/or lower margins for us and our concepts' franchisees. our significant china operations subject us to risks that could negatively affect our business. a significant and growing portion of our restaurants are located, and our revenues and profits originate, in china. as a consequence, our financial results are increasingly dependent on our results in china, and our business is increasingly exposed to risks there. these risks include changes in economic conditions (including consumer spending, unemployment levels and wage and commodity inflation), consumer preferences, taxation (including income and non-income based tax rates and laws) and the regulatory environment, as well as increased media scrutiny of our business and industry and increased competition. in addition, our results of operations in china and the value of our chinese assets are affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which may adversely affect reported earnings. there can be no assurance as to the future effect of any such changes on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. in addition, any significant or prolonged deterioration in u.s.-china relations could adversely affect our china business. certain risks and uncertainties of doing business in china are solely within the control of the chinese government, and chinese law regulates the scope of our foreign investments and business conducted within china. there are also uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of laws and regulations and the enforceability of intellectual property and contract rights in china. if we were unable to enforce our intellectual property or contract rights in china, our business would be adversely impacted. health concerns arising from outbreaks of viruses or other diseases may have an adverse effect on our business. outbreaks of avian flu occur from time to time around the world, including in china where a significant portion of our profits and revenues originate. it is possible that outbreaks in china and elsewhere could reach pandemic levels. public concern over avian flu generally may cause fear about the consumption of chicken, eggs and other products derived from poultry, which could cause customers to consume less poultry and related products. this would likely result in lower revenues and profits. avian flu outbreaks could also adversely affect the price and availability of poultry, which could negatively impact our profit margins and revenues. widespread outbreaks could also affect our ability to attract and retain employees. furthermore, other viruses such as h1n1 or swine flu may be transmitted through human contact, and the risk of contracting viruses could cause employees or guests to avoid gathering in public places, which could adversely affect restaurant guest traffic or the ability to adequately staff restaurants. we could also be adversely affected if jurisdictions in which we have restaurants impose mandatory closures, seek voluntary closures or impose restrictions on operations of restaurants. even if such measures are not implemented and a virus or other disease does not spread significantly, the perceived risk of infection or health risk may affect our business. our foreign operations subject us to risks that could negatively affect our business. a significant portion of our concepts' restaurants are operated in countries and territories outside of the u.s., and we intend to continue expansion of our international operations. as a result, our business is increasingly exposed to risks inherent in foreign operations. these risks, which can vary substantially by country, include political instability, corruption, social and ethnic unrest, changes in economic conditions (including consumer spending, unemployment levels and wage and commodity inflation), the regulatory environment, income and non-income based tax rates and laws and consumer preferences as well as changes in the laws and policies that govern foreign investment in countries where our restaurants are operated. in addition, our results of operations and the value of our foreign assets are affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which may adversely affect reported earnings. more specifically, an increase in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to other currencies, such as the australian dollar, the british pound, the canadian dollar and the euro, as well as currencies in certain emerging markets, such as the russian ruble, could have an adverse effect on our reported earnings. there can be no assurance as to the future effect of any such changes on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. failure to protect the integrity and security of personal information of our customers and employees could result in substantial costs, expose us to litigation and damage our reputation. we receive and maintain certain personal financial and other information about our customers and employees. the use of this information is regulated by evolving and increasingly demanding laws, as well as by certain third-party contracts. if our security and information systems are compromised as a result of data corruption or loss, cyber-attack or a network security incident or our employees, franchisees or vendors fail to comply with these laws and regulations and this information is obtained by unauthorized 8 persons or used inappropriately, it could result in liabilities and penalties and could damage our reputation, cause us to incur substantial costs and result in a loss of customer confidence, which could adversely affect our restaurant operations and results of operations and financial condition. additionally, we could be subject to litigation and government enforcement actions as a result of any such failure. shortages or interruptions in the availability and delivery of food and other supplies may increase costs or reduce revenues. the products sold by our concepts and their franchisees are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international suppliers. we are also dependent upon third parties to make frequent deliveries of food products and supplies that meet our specifications at competitive prices. shortages or interruptions in the supply of food items and other supplies to our restaurants could adversely affect the availability, quality and cost of items we buy and the operations of our restaurants. such shortages or disruptions could be caused by inclement weather, natural disasters such as floods, drought and hurricanes, increased demand, problems in production or distribution, the inability of our vendors to obtain credit, political instability in the countries in which foreign suppliers and distributors are located, the financial instability of suppliers and distributors, suppliers' or distributors' failure to meet our standards, product quality issues, inflation, other factors relating to the suppliers and distributors and the countries in which they are located, food safety warnings or advisories or the prospect of such pronouncements or other conditions beyond our control. a shortage or interruption in the availability of certain food products or supplies could increase costs and limit the availability of products critical to restaurant operations, which in turn could lead to restaurant closures and/or a decrease in sales. in addition, failure by a principal distributor for our concepts and/or our concepts' franchisees to meet its service requirements could lead to a disruption of service or supply until a new distributor is engaged, and any disruption could have an adverse effect on our business. we may not attain our target development goals, and aggressive development could cannibalize existing sales. our growth strategy depends in large part on our ability to increase our net restaurant count in markets outside the u.s., especially china and other emerging markets. the successful development of new units will depend in large part on our ability and the ability of our concepts' franchisees to open new restaurants and to operate these restaurants on a profitable basis. we cannot guarantee that we, or our concepts' franchisees, will be able to achieve our expansion goals or that new restaurants will be operated profitably. further, there is no assurance that any new restaurant will produce operating results similar to those of our existing restaurants. other risks which could impact our ability to increase our net restaurant count include prevailing economic conditions and our, or our concepts' franchisees', ability to obtain suitable restaurant locations, negotiate acceptable lease or purchase terms for the locations, obtain required permits and approvals in a timely manner, hire and train qualified personnel and meet construction schedules. expansion into target markets could also be affected by our concepts' franchisees' ability to obtain financing to construct and open new restaurants. if it becomes more difficult or more expensive for our concepts' franchisees to obtain financing to develop new restaurants, the expected growth of our system could slow and our future revenues and operating cash flows could be adversely impacted. in addition, the new restaurants could impact the sales of our existing restaurants nearby. there can be no assurance that sales cannibalization will not occur or become more significant in the future as we increase our presence in existing markets. changes in commodity and other operating costs could adversely affect our results of operations. any increase in certain commodity prices, such as food, supply and energy costs, could adversely affect our operating results. because our concepts and their franchisees provide competitively priced food, our ability to pass along commodity price increases to our customers is limited. significant increases in gasoline prices could also result in a decrease of customer traffic at our restaurants or the imposition of fuel surcharges by our distributors, each of which could adversely affect our profit margins. our operating expenses also include employee wages and benefits and insurance costs (including workers' compensation, general liability, property and health) which may increase over time. any such increase could adversely affect our profit margins. our operating results are closely tied to the success of our concepts' franchisees. a significant portion of our restaurants are operated by franchisees from whom we derive a significant portion of our revenues in the form of royalty payments. as a result, the success of our business depends in part upon the operational and financial success of our concepts' franchisees. we have limited control over how our concepts' franchisees' businesses are run, and the inability of our concepts' franchisees to operate successfully could adversely affect our operating results through decreased royalty payments. 9 if franchisees incur too much debt or if economic or sales trends deteriorate such that they are unable to operate profitably or repay existing debt, it could result in financial distress, including insolvency or bankruptcy. if a significant franchisee or a significant number of our concepts' franchisees become financially distressed, our operating results could be impacted through reduced or delayed royalty payments or increased rent obligations for leased properties on which we are contingently liable. our success depends substantially on the value and perception of our brands. our success depends in large part upon our ability to maintain and enhance the value of our brands and our customers' connection to our brands. brand value is based in part on consumer perceptions on a variety of subjective qualities. business incidents, whether isolated or recurring and whether originating from us, our franchisees or suppliers, can significantly reduce brand value and consumer trust, particularly if the incidents receive considerable publicity or result in litigation. for example, our brands could be damaged by claims or perceptions about the quality or safety of our products or the quality of our suppliers, regardless of whether such claims or perceptions are true. any such incident could cause a decline in consumer confidence in, or the perception of, our concepts and/or our products and decrease the value of our brands as well as consumer demand for our products, which would likely result in lower revenues and profits. our inability or failure to recognize, respond to and effectively manage the accelerated impact of social media could materially adversely impact our business. there has been a marked increase in the use of social media platforms, including weblogs (blogs), social media websites, and other forms of internet-based communications which allow individuals access to a broad audience of consumers and other interested persons. many social media platforms immediately publish the content their subscribers and participants post, often without filters or checks on accuracy of the content posted. information posted on such platforms at any time may be adverse to our interests and/or may be inaccurate. the dissemination of information online could harm our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations, regardless of the information's accuracy. the harm may be immediate without affording us an opportunity for redress or correction. other risks associated with the use of social media include improper disclosure of proprietary information, negative comments about our concepts, exposure of personally identifiable information, fraud and out-of-date information. the inappropriate use of social media by our customers or employees could increase our costs, lead to litigation or result in negative publicity that could damage our reputation. we could be party to litigation that could adversely affect us by increasing our expenses or subjecting us to significant monetary damages and other remedies. from time to time we are involved in a number of legal proceedings, which include consumer, employment, tort, patent, securities, derivative and other litigation (see the discussion of legal proceedings in note 18 to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this report). we are currently a defendant in cases containing class action allegations in which the plaintiffs have brought claims under federal and state wage and hour, disability and other laws. we are also currently a defendant in securities and derivative lawsuits alleging inadequate disclosures in violation of federal securities laws. plaintiffs in these types of lawsuits often seek recovery of very large or indeterminate amounts, and the magnitude of the potential loss relating to such lawsuits may not be accurately estimated. regardless of whether any claims against us are valid, or whether we are ultimately held liable, such litigation may be expensive to defend and may divert resources away from our operations and negatively impact reported earnings. with respect to insured claims, a judgment for monetary damages in excess of any insurance coverage could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. any adverse publicity resulting from these allegations may also adversely affect our reputation, which in turn could adversely affect our results. in addition, the restaurant industry has been subject to claims that relate to the nutritional content of food products, as well as claims that the menus and practices of restaurant chains have led to the obesity of some customers. we may also be subject to this type of claim in the future and, even if we are not, publicity about these matters (particularly directed at the quick service and fast-casual segments of the industry) may harm our reputation and adversely affect our results. changes in, or noncompliance with, governmental regulations may adversely affect our business operations, growth prospects or financial condition. our concepts and their franchisees are subject to numerous laws and regulations around the world. these laws change regularly and are increasingly complex. for example, we are subject to: 10 the americans with disabilities act in the u.s. and similar state laws that give civil rights protections to individuals with disabilities in the context of employment, public accommodations and other areas. the u.s. fair labor standards act, which governs matters such as minimum wages, overtime and other working conditions, as well as family leave mandates and a variety of similar state laws that govern these and other employment law matters. anti-bribery and corruption laws and regulations, such as the foreign corrupt practices act, the uk bribery act and similar laws, which are the subject of increasing scrutiny and enforcement around the world. laws and regulations in government-mandated health care benefits such as the patient protection and affordable care act. laws relating to state and local licensing. laws and regulations relating to health, sanitation, food, workplace safety, child labor, including laws prohibiting the use of certain hazardous equipment by employees younger than the age of 18 years of age, and fire safety and prevention. laws and regulations relating to union organizing rights and activities. laws relating to information security, privacy, cashless payments and consumer credit, protection and fraud. environmental regulations. federal and state immigration laws and regulations in the u.s. compliance with new or existing laws and regulations could impact our operations. the compliance costs associated with these laws and regulations could be substantial. any failure or alleged failure to comply with these laws or regulations could adversely affect our reputation, international expansion efforts, growth prospects and financial condition or result in, among other things, litigation, revocation of required licenses, governmental investigations or proceedings, administrative enforcement actions, fines and civil and criminal liability. publicity relating to any such noncompliance could also harm our reputation and adversely affect our revenues. tax matters, including changes in tax rates, disagreements with taxing authorities and imposition of new taxes could impact our results of operations and financial condition. a significant percentage of our profit is earned outside the u.s. and taxed at lower rates than the u.s. statutory rates. historically, the cash we generate outside the u.s. has principally been used to fund our international development. however, if the cash generated by our u.s. business is not sufficient to meet our need for cash in the u.s., we may need to repatriate a greater portion of our international earnings to the u.s. in the future. we are required to record u.s. income tax expense in our financial statements at the point in time when our management determines that such funds are not permanently invested outside the u.s. this could cause our worldwide effective tax rate to increase materially. we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property, withholding and franchise taxes in both the u.s. and various foreign jurisdictions. we are also subject to regular reviews, examinations and audits by the internal revenue service and other taxing authorities with respect to such income and non-income based taxes inside and outside of the u.s. these reviews could include challenges of our methodologies for transfer pricing. if the irs or another taxing authority disagrees with our tax positions, we could face additional tax liability, including interest and penalties. payment of such additional amounts upon final settlement or adjudication of any disputes could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position. in addition, we are directly and indirectly affected by new tax legislation and regulation and the interpretation of tax laws and regulations worldwide. changes in such legislation, regulation or interpretation could increase our taxes and have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. this includes potential changes in tax laws or the interpretation of tax laws arising out of the base erosion profit shifting project initiated by the organization for economic co-operation and development. 11 our business may be adversely impacted by general economic conditions. our results of operations are dependent upon discretionary spending by consumers, which may be affected by general economic conditions globally or in one or more of the markets we serve. some of the factors that impact discretionary consumer spending include unemployment, disposable income and consumer confidence. these and other macroeconomic factors could have an adverse effect on our sales, profitability or development plans, which could harm our financial condition and operating results. the retail food industry in which we operate is highly competitive. the retail food industry in which we operate is highly competitive with respect to price and quality of food products, new product development, advertising levels and promotional initiatives, customer service, reputation, restaurant location, and attractiveness and maintenance of properties. if consumer or dietary preferences change, or our restaurants are unable to compete successfully with other retail food outlets in new and existing markets, our business could be adversely affected. we also face growing competition as a result of convergence in grocery, deli and restaurant services, including the offering by the grocery industry of convenient meals, including pizzas and entrees with side dishes. in addition, in the retail food industry, labor is a primary operating cost component. competition for qualified employees could also require us to pay higher wages to attract a sufficient number of employees, which could adversely impact our profit margins. 12 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the company is exposed to financial market risks associated with interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices. in the normal course of business and in accordance with our policies, we manage these risks through a variety of strategies, which may include the use of financial and commodity derivative instruments to hedge our underlying exposures. our policies prohibit the use of derivative instruments for trading purposes, and we have processes in place to monitor and control their use. interest rate risk we have a market risk exposure to changes in interest rates, principally in the u.s. we have attempted to minimize this risk and lower our overall borrowing costs on a portion of our debt through the utilization of derivative financial instruments, primarily interest rate swaps. these swaps were entered into with financial institutions and have reset dates and critical terms that match those of the underlying debt. accordingly, any change in fair value associated with interest rate swaps is offset by the opposite impact on the related debt. at december 27, 2014 and december 28, 2013 a hypothetical 100 basis-point increase in short-term interest rates would result, over the following twelve-month period, in a reduction of approximately $5 million and $3 million, respectively, in income before income taxes. the estimated reductions are based upon the current level of variable rate debt and assume no changes in the volume or composition of that debt and include no impact from interest income related to cash and cash equivalents. in addition, the fair value of our derivative financial instruments at december 27, 2014 and december 28, 2013 would decrease approximately $4 million and $7 million, respectively, as a result of the same hypothetical 100 basis-point increase and the fair value of our senior unsecured notes at december 27, 2014 and december 28, 2013 would decrease approximately $182 million and $185 million, respectively. fair value was determined based on the present value of expected future cash flows considering the risks involved and using discount rates appropriate for the duration. foreign currency exchange rate risk changes in foreign currency exchange rates impact the translation of our reported foreign currency denominated earnings, cash flows and net investments in foreign operations and the fair value of our foreign currency denominated financial instruments. historically, we have chosen not to hedge foreign currency risks related to our foreign currency denominated earnings and cash flows through the use of financial instruments. we attempt to minimize the exposure related to our net investments in foreign operations by financing those investments with local currency denominated debt when practical. in addition, we attempt to minimize the exposure related to foreign currency denominated financial instruments by purchasing goods and services from third parties in local currencies when practical. consequently, foreign currency denominated financial instruments consist primarily of intercompany short-term receivables and payables. at times, we utilize forward contracts to reduce our exposure related to these intercompany short-term receivables and payables. the notional amount and maturity dates of these contracts match those of the underlying receivables or payables such that our foreign currency exchange risk related to these instruments is minimized. the company's foreign currency net asset exposure (defined as foreign currency assets less foreign currency liabilities) totaled approximately $4.4 billion as of december 27, 2014 . operating in international markets exposes the company to movements in foreign currency exchange rates. the company's primary exposures result from our operations in asia-pacific, europe and the americas. for the fiscal year ended december 27, 2014 operating profit would have decreased approximately $150 million if all foreign currencies had uniformly weakened 10% relative to the u.s. dollar. this estimated reduction assumes no changes in sales volumes or local currency sales or input prices. 44 commodity price risk we are subject to volatility in food costs as a result of market risk associated with commodity prices. our ability to recover increased costs through higher pricing is, at times, limited by the competitive environment in which we operate. we manage our exposure to this risk primarily through pricing agreements with our vendors. 45risk factors. risks related to our business and industry you should carefully review the risks described below as they identify important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our forward-looking statements and historical trends. food safety and food-borne illness concerns may have an adverse effect on our business. food-borne illnesses, such as e. coli, hepatitis a, trichinosis and salmonella, occur or may occur within our system from time to time. in addition, food safety issues such as food tampering, contamination and adulteration occur or may occur within our system from time to time. any report or publicity linking us or one of our concept restaurants, including restaurants operated by our concepts' franchisees, to instances of food-borne illness or food safety issues could adversely affect our concepts' brands and reputations as well as our revenues and profits, and possibly lead to product liability claims, litigation and damages. if a customer of our concepts becomes ill from food-borne illnesses or as a result of food safety issues, restaurants in our system may be temporarily closed, which would decrease our revenues. in addition, instances or allegations of food-borne illness or food safety 7 issues, real or perceived, involving our restaurants, restaurants of competitors, or suppliers or distributors (regardless of whether we use or have used those suppliers or distributors), or otherwise involving the types of food served at our restaurants, could result in negative publicity that could adversely affect our sales. the occurrence of food-borne illnesses or food safety issues could also adversely affect the price and availability of affected ingredients, which could result in disruptions in our supply chain and/or lower margins for us and our concepts' franchisees. our significant china operations subject us to risks that could negatively affect our business. a significant and growing portion of our restaurants are located, and our revenues and profits originate, in china. as a consequence, our overall financial results are heavily dependent on our results in china, and our business is significantly exposed to risks there. these risks include changes in economic conditions (including consumer spending, unemployment levels and wage and commodity inflation), consumer preferences, taxation (including income and non-income based tax rates and laws) and the regulatory environment, as well as increased media scrutiny of our business and industry and increased competition. in addition, our results of operations in china and the value of our chinese assets are affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which may adversely affect reported earnings. an increase in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to the chinese renminbi could have an adverse effect on our reported earnings. there can be no assurance as to the future effect of any such changes on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. in addition, any significant or prolonged deterioration in u.s.-china relations could adversely affect our china business. certain risks and uncertainties of doing business in china are solely within the control of the chinese government, and chinese law regulates the scope of our foreign investments and business conducted within china. there are also uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of laws and regulations and the enforceability of intellectual property and contract rights in china. if we were unable to enforce our intellectual property or contract rights in china, our business would be adversely impacted. although we have announced our intention to separate our china business through a spin-off to existing shareholders, following the spin-off the new china entity will be our largest franchisee or licensee, and we will therefore continue to be exposed to many of the foregoing risks even after the completion of the proposed spin-off. health concerns arising from outbreaks of viruses or other diseases may have an adverse effect on our business. outbreaks of avian flu occur from time to time around the world, and these outbreaks could reach pandemic levels. public concern over avian flu generally may cause fear about the consumption of chicken, eggs and other products derived from poultry, which could cause customers to consume less poultry and related products. this would likely result in lower revenues and profits. avian flu outbreaks could also adversely affect the price and availability of poultry, which could negatively impact our profit margins and revenues. widespread outbreaks could also affect our ability to attract and retain employees. furthermore, other viruses such as h1n1 or swine flu may be transmitted through human contact, and the risk of contracting viruses could cause employees or guests to avoid gathering in public places, which could adversely affect restaurant guest traffic or the ability to adequately staff restaurants. we could also be adversely affected if jurisdictions in which we have restaurants impose mandatory closures, seek voluntary closures or impose restrictions on operations of restaurants. even if such measures are not implemented and a virus or other disease does not spread significantly, the perceived risk of infection or health risk may affect our business. our international operations subject us to risks that could negatively affect our business. a significant portion of our concepts' restaurants are operated in countries and territories outside of the u.s., and we intend to continue expansion of our international operations. as a result, our business is increasingly exposed to risks inherent in international operations. these risks, which can vary substantially by country, include political instability, corruption, social and ethnic unrest, changes in economic conditions (including consumer spending, unemployment levels and wage and commodity inflation), the regulatory environment, income and non-income based tax rates and laws, foreign exchange control regimes and consumer preferences as well as changes in the laws and policies that govern foreign investment in countries where our restaurants are operated. in addition, our results of operations and the value of our foreign assets are affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which may adversely affect reported earnings. more specifically, an increase in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to other currencies, such as the australian dollar, the british pound, the canadian dollar and the euro, as well as currencies in certain emerging markets, such as the russian ruble, could have an adverse effect on our reported earnings. there can be no assurance as to the future effect of any such changes on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. 8 failure to protect the integrity and security of personal information of our customers and employees could result in substantial costs, expose us to litigation and damage our reputation. we receive and maintain certain personal financial and other information about our customers and employees. the use and handling of this information is regulated by evolving and increasingly demanding laws and regulations, as well as by certain third-party contracts. if our security and information systems are compromised as a result of data corruption or loss, cyber-attack or a network security incident or our employees, franchisees or vendors fail to comply with these laws and regulations and this information is obtained by unauthorized persons or used inappropriately, it could result in liabilities and penalties and could damage our reputation, cause us to incur substantial costs and result in a loss of customer confidence, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. additionally, we could be subject to litigation and government enforcement actions as a result of any such failure. shortages or interruptions in the availability and delivery of food and other supplies may increase costs or reduce revenues. the products sold by our concepts and their franchisees are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international suppliers. we are also dependent upon third parties to make frequent deliveries of food products and supplies that meet our specifications at competitive prices. shortages or interruptions in the supply of food items and other supplies to our restaurants could adversely affect the availability, quality and cost of items we use and the operations of our restaurants. such shortages or disruptions could be caused by inclement weather, natural disasters such as floods, drought and hurricanes, increased demand, problems in production or distribution, restrictions on imports or exports, the inability of our vendors to obtain credit, political instability in the countries in which suppliers and distributors are located, the financial instability of suppliers and distributors, suppliers' or distributors' failure to meet our standards, product quality issues, inflation, other factors relating to the suppliers and distributors and the countries in which they are located, food safety warnings or advisories or the prospect of such pronouncements or other conditions beyond our control. a shortage or interruption in the availability of certain food products or supplies could increase costs and limit the availability of products critical to restaurant operations, which in turn could lead to restaurant closures and/or a decrease in sales. in addition, failure by a principal distributor for our concepts and/or our concepts' franchisees to meet its service requirements could lead to a disruption of service or supply until a new distributor is engaged, and any disruption could have an adverse effect on our business. we may not attain our target development goals, aggressive development could cannibalize existing sales and new restaurants may not be profitable. our growth strategy depends in large part on our ability to increase our net restaurant count in markets outside the u.s., especially in china and other emerging markets. the successful development of new units depends in large part on our ability and the ability of our concepts' franchisees to open new restaurants and to operate these restaurants profitably. we cannot guarantee that we, or our concepts' franchisees, will be able to achieve our expansion goals or that new restaurants will be operated profitably. further, there is no assurance that any new restaurant will produce operating results similar to those of our existing restaurants. other risks which could impact our ability to increase our net restaurant count include prevailing economic conditions and our, or our concepts' franchisees', ability to obtain suitable restaurant locations, negotiate acceptable lease or purchase terms for the locations, obtain required permits and approvals in a timely manner, hire and train qualified personnel and meet construction schedules. expansion into target markets could also be affected by our concepts' franchisees' ability to obtain financing to construct and open new restaurants. if it becomes more difficult or more expensive for our concepts' franchisees to obtain financing to develop new restaurants, the expected growth of our system could slow and our future revenues and operating cash flows could be adversely impacted. in addition, the new restaurants could impact the sales of our existing restaurants nearby. there can be no assurance that sales cannibalization will not occur or become more significant in the future as we increase our presence in existing markets. changes in commodity, labor and other operating costs could adversely affect our results of operations. an increase in certain commodity prices, such as food, supply and energy costs, could adversely affect our operating results. our operating expenses also include employee wages and benefits and insurance costs (including workers' compensation, general liability, property and health) which may increase over time. such increases could result from government imposition of higher minimum wages or from general economic or competitive conditions, which could affect wage rates. in addition, significant increases in gasoline prices could result in the imposition of fuel surcharges by our distributors. any increase in the prices of the commodities we use or operating expenses we incur could adversely affect our profit margins. because our concepts and their franchisees provide competitively priced food, our ability to pass along increased expenses to our customers is limited. 9 our operating results are closely tied to the success of our concepts' franchisees and licensees. a significant portion of our restaurants are operated by franchisees and licensees from whom we derive a significant portion of our revenues in the form of royalty payments. as a result, the success of our business depends in part upon the operational and financial success of our concepts' franchisees and licensees. we have limited control over how our concepts' franchisees' and licensees' businesses are run, and the inability of franchisees or licensees to operate successfully could adversely affect our operating results through decreased royalty payments. if franchisees or licensees incur too much debt, if their operating expenses or commodity prices increase or if economic or sales trends deteriorate such that they are unable to operate profitably or repay existing debt, it could result in financial distress, including insolvency or bankruptcy. if a significant franchisee or licensee or a significant number of our concepts' franchisees or licensees become financially distressed, our operating results could be impacted through reduced or delayed royalty payments or increased rent obligations for leased properties on which we are contingently liable. our success depends substantially on our corporate reputation and on the value and perception of our brands. our success depends in large part upon our ability and our franchisees' and licensees' ability to maintain and enhance the value of our brands and our customers' connection to our brands. brand value is based in part on consumer perceptions on a variety of subjective qualities. business incidents, whether isolated or recurring and whether originating from us, our franchisees, licensees or suppliers, can significantly reduce brand value and consumer trust, particularly if the incidents receive considerable publicity or result in litigation. for example, our brands could be damaged by claims or perceptions about the quality or safety of our products or the quality of our suppliers, regardless of whether such claims or perceptions are true. similarly, entities in our supply chain may engage in conduct, including alleged human rights abuses, that damages our or our brands' reputations. any such incident could cause a decline in consumer confidence in, or the perception of, our concepts and/or our products and decrease the value of our brands as well as consumer demand for our products, which would likely result in lower revenues and profits. additionally, our corporate reputation could suffer from a real or perceived failure of corporate governance or misconduct by a company officer or representative. our inability or failure to recognize, respond to and effectively manage the accelerated impact of social media could materially adversely impact our business. there has been a marked increase in the use of social media platforms, including weblogs (blogs), social media websites, and other forms of internet-based communications which allow individuals access to a broad audience of consumers and other interested persons. many social media platforms immediately publish the content their subscribers and participants post, often without filters or checks on accuracy of the content posted. information posted on such platforms at any time may be adverse to our interests and/or may be inaccurate. the dissemination of information online could harm our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations, regardless of the information's accuracy. the harm may be immediate without affording us an opportunity for redress or correction. other risks associated with the use of social media include improper disclosure of proprietary information, negative comments about our concepts, exposure of personally identifiable information, fraud and disclosure of out-of-date information. the inappropriate use of social media by our customers or employees could increase our costs, lead to litigation or result in negative publicity that could damage our reputation and adversely affect our results. we could be party to litigation that could adversely affect us by increasing our expenses or subjecting us to significant monetary damages and other remedies. we are regularly involved in legal proceedings, which include consumer, employment, tort, intellectual property, breach of contract, securities, derivative and other litigation (see the discussion of legal proceedings in note 18 to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this form 10-k). plaintiffs in these types of lawsuits often seek recovery of very large or indeterminate amounts, and the magnitude of the potential loss relating to such lawsuits may not be accurately estimated. regardless of whether any claims against us are valid, or whether we are ultimately held liable, such litigation may be expensive to defend and may divert resources away from our operations and negatively impact reported earnings. with respect to insured claims, a judgment for monetary damages in excess of any insurance coverage could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. any adverse publicity resulting from these allegations may also adversely affect our reputation, which in turn could adversely affect our results. in addition, the restaurant industry has been subject to claims that relate to the nutritional content of food products, as well as claims that the menus and practices of restaurant chains have led to customer health issues, including weight gain and other adverse 10 effects. we may also be subject to these types of claims in the future and, even if we are not, publicity about these matters (particularly directed at the quick service and fast-casual segments of the retail food industry) may harm our reputation and adversely affect our results. changes in, or noncompliance with, governmental regulations may adversely affect our business operations, growth prospects or financial condition. our concepts and their franchisees are subject to numerous laws and regulations around the world. these laws change regularly and are increasingly complex. for example, we are subject to: the americans with disabilities act in the u.s. and similar state laws that give civil rights protections to individuals with disabilities in the context of employment, public accommodations and other areas. the u.s. fair labor standards act, which governs matters such as minimum wages, overtime and other working conditions, as well as family leave mandates and a variety of similar state laws that govern these and other employment law matters. laws and regulations in government-mandated health care benefits such as the patient protection and affordable care act. laws and regulations relating to nutritional content, nutritional labeling, product safety and menu labeling. laws relating to state and local licensing. laws and regulations relating to health, sanitation, food, workplace safety, child labor, including laws prohibiting the use of certain hazardous equipment by employees younger than the age of 18 years of age, and fire safety and prevention. laws and regulations relating to union organizing rights and activities. laws relating to information security, privacy, cashless payments, and consumer protection. environmental regulations. federal and state immigration laws and regulations in the u.s. compliance with new or existing laws and regulations could impact our operations. the compliance costs associated with these laws and regulations could be substantial. any failure or alleged failure to comply with these laws or regulations could adversely affect our reputation, international expansion efforts, growth prospects and financial condition or result in, among other things, litigation, revocation of required licenses, governmental investigations or proceedings, administrative enforcement actions, fines and civil and criminal liability. publicity relating to any such noncompliance could also harm our reputation and adversely affect our revenues. a broader standard for determining joint employer status may adversely affect our business operations and increase our liabilities. the national labor relations board has recently adopted a new and broader standard for determining when two or more otherwise unrelated employers may be found to be a joint employer of the same employees under the national labor relations act. if this joint employer liability standard is upheld or adopted by other government agencies, it could cause us or our concepts to be liable or held responsible for unfair labor practices and other violations, and required to conduct collective bargaining negotiations, regarding employees of totally separate, independent employers, most notably our franchisees. in such event, our operating expenses may increase as a result of required modifications to our business practices, increased litigation, governmental investigations or proceedings, administrative enforcement actions, fines and civil liability. failure to comply with anti-bribery or anti-corruption laws may adversely affect our business operations. the foreign corrupt practices act, the uk bribery act and similar laws prohibiting bribery of government officials and other corrupt practices are the subject of increasing scrutiny and enforcement around the world. although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to promote compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, agents or other third parties will not take actions in violation of our policies or applicable law, particularly as we expand our operations in emerging markets. any such violations or suspected violations could subject us to civil or criminal penalties, including substantial fines and significant investigation costs, and could also materially damage our reputation, brands, international expansion efforts and prospects, business and operating results. publicity relating to any noncompliance or alleged noncompliance could also harm our reputation and adversely affect our revenues. tax matters, including changes in tax rates, disagreements with taxing authorities and imposition of new taxes could impact our results of operations and financial condition. a significant percentage of our profit is earned outside the u.s. and taxed at lower rates than the u.s. statutory rates. historically, the cash we generate outside the u.s. has principally been used to fund our international development. however, if the cash 11 generated by our u.s. business is not sufficient to meet our need for cash in the u.s., we may need to repatriate a greater portion of our international earnings to the u.s. in the future. we are required to record u.s. income tax expense in our financial statements at the point in time when our management determines that we no longer have the ability and intent to indefinitely postpone tax consequences related to those international earnings. this could cause our worldwide effective tax rate to increase materially. we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property, withholding and franchise taxes in both the u.s. and various foreign jurisdictions. we are also subject to regular reviews, examinations and audits by the internal revenue service ( irs ) and other taxing authorities with respect to such income and non-income based taxes inside and outside of the u.s. these reviews could include challenges of our methodologies for transfer pricing. if the irs or another taxing authority disagrees with our tax positions, we could face additional tax liability, including interest and penalties. payment of such additional amounts upon final settlement or adjudication of any disputes could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position. in addition, we are directly and indirectly affected by new tax legislation and regulation and the interpretation of tax laws and regulations worldwide. changes in such legislation, regulation or interpretation could increase our taxes and have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. this includes potential changes in tax laws or the interpretation of tax laws arising out of the base erosion profit shifting project initiated by the organization for economic co-operation and development. failure to protect our service marks or other intellectual property could harm our business. we regard our yum , kfc , pizza hut and taco bell service marks, and other service marks and trademarks related to our restaurant businesses, as having significant value and being important to our marketing efforts. we rely on a combination of protections provided by contracts, copyrights, patents, trademarks, service marks and other common law rights, such as trade secret and unfair competition laws, to protect our restaurants and services from infringement. we have registered certain trademarks and service marks in the united states and foreign jurisdictions. however, from time to time we become aware of names and marks identical or confusingly similar to our service marks being used by other persons. although our policy is to oppose any such infringement, further or unknown unauthorized uses or other misappropriation of our trademarks or service marks could diminish the value of our brands and adversely affect our business. in addition, effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which our concepts have or intend to open or franchise a restaurant. there can be no assurance that these protections will be adequate, and defending or enforcing our service marks and other intellectual property could result in the expenditure of significant resources. our business may be adversely impacted by general economic conditions. our results of operations are dependent upon discretionary spending by consumers, which may be affected by general economic conditions globally or in one or more of the markets we serve. some of the factors that impact discretionary consumer spending include unemployment, disposable income, the price of gasoline, stock market performance and consumer confidence. these and other macroeconomic factors could have an adverse effect on our sales, profitability or development plans, which could harm our financial condition and operating results. the retail food industry in which we operate is highly competitive. the retail food industry in which we operate is highly competitive with respect to price and quality of food products, new product development, advertising levels and promotional initiatives, customer service, reputation, restaurant location, and attractiveness and maintenance of properties. if consumer or dietary preferences change, or our restaurants are unable to compete successfully with other retail food outlets in new and existing markets, our business could be adversely affected. we also face growing competition as a result of convergence in grocery, convenience, deli and restaurant services, including the offering by the grocery industry of convenient meals, including pizzas and entrees with side dishes. competition from delivery aggregators and other food delivery services has also increased in recent years, particularly in urbanized areas. increased competition could have an adverse effect on our sales, profitability or development plans, which could harm our financial condition and operating results. in addition, in the retail food industry, labor is a primary operating cost component. competition for qualified employees could also require us to pay higher wages to attract a sufficient number of employees, which could adversely impact our profit margins. we intend to substantially increase our level of debt which would make us more sensitive to the effects of economic downturns and could adversely affect our business. in late 2015, we announced that we intend to return approximately $6.2 billion of capital to shareholders prior to the separation of our china business through share repurchases and/or a special dividend. to finance that return of capital we expect to incur 12 significant additional indebtedness, some of which may be secured debt. this would have the effect of substantially increasing our total leverage. an increase in our leverage could have important potential consequences, including, but not limited to: increasing our vulnerability to, and reducing our flexibility to plan for and respond to, general adverse economic and industry conditions and changes in our business and the competitive environment; requiring the dedication of a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal of, and interest on, indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of such cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, dividends, share repurchases or other corporate purposes; increasing our vulnerability to a downgrade of our credit rating, which could adversely affect our cost of funds, liquidity and access to capital markets; restricting us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures; increasing our exposure to the risk of increased interest rates insofar as current and future borrowings are subject to variable rates of interest; making it more difficult for us to repay, refinance or satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt; limiting our ability to borrow additional funds in the future and increasing the cost of any such borrowing; imposing restrictive covenants on our operations, which, if not complied with, could result in an event of default, which in turn, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of the applicable debt, and may result in the acceleration of any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies; and increasing our exposure to risks related to fluctuations in foreign currency as we earn profits in a variety of currencies around the world and our debt is or is expected to be denominated in u.s. dollars. there is no assurance that we will generate cash flow from operations or that future debt or equity financings will be available to us to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund other needs. as a result, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. there is no assurance that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on favorable terms, or at all. any inability to generate sufficient cash flow or refinance our indebtedness on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. risks related to the planned spin-off the proposed spin-off of our china business is subject to various risks and uncertainties and may not be completed on the terms or timeline currently contemplated, if at all, and will involve significant time and attention, which could disrupt or adversely affect our business. we have announced our intention to separate yum's china business from yum into an independent, publicly-traded company by the end of 2016. this transaction, which is expected to be a u.s. tax-free spin-off of our china business, is complex in nature, subject to various conditions, and may be affected by unanticipated developments or changes in market, regulatory and certain other conditions. we expect to file a registration statement on form 10 with the securities and exchange commission ( sec ) that will contain detailed information regarding the business proposed to be spun-off. completion of the spin-off will be contingent upon a number of factors, including the effectiveness of the registration statement, final approval by our board of directors, receipt of a tax opinion and other conditions. for these and other reasons, the spin-off may not be completed as expected by the end of 2016, if at all. additionally, execution of the proposed spin-off will require significant time and attention from management, which may distract management from the operation of our business and the execution of our other initiatives. our employees may also be distracted due to uncertainty about their future roles with each of the separate companies pending the completion of the spin-off. we may also experience increased difficulties in attracting, retaining and motivating key employees during the pendency of the spin-off and following its completion. any such difficulties could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. the proposed spin-off may not achieve some or all of the expected benefits and may adversely affect our business. even if the proposed spin-off is completed, we may not achieve, or may not achieve in a timely fashion, some or all of the expected benefits of the spin-off and the spin-off may in fact adversely affect our business. for example, once the china business becomes independent, it may choose to pursue growth opportunities with brands or businesses unrelated to our concepts, which could divert attention and resources away from the growth of our concepts in china. in addition, if the spin-off is completed, the company's operational and financial profile and the composition of the company's revenue will change materially. there can be no assurance that these changes will yield the benefits currently expected or intended 13 or that the combined value of the common stock of the two publicly-traded companies following the completion of the proposed spin-off will be equal to or greater than what the value of our common stock would have been had the proposed spin-off not occurred. the spin-off transactions could result in substantial u.s. tax liability. the spin-off will be conditioned on our receipt of an opinion of outside counsel, in form and substance satisfactory to us, substantially to the effect that, for u.s. federal income tax purposes, the spin-off and certain related transactions will qualify under sections 355 and/or 368 of the u.s. internal revenue code. the opinion will rely on various assumptions and representations as to factual matters made by the new china entity and us which, if inaccurate or incomplete in any material respect, would jeopardize the conclusions reached by such counsel in its opinion. the opinion will not be binding on the irs or the courts, and there can be no assurance that the irs or the courts will not challenge the conclusions stated in the opinion or that any such challenge would not prevail. if, notwithstanding receipt of the opinion, the spin-off transaction were determined to be a taxable transaction, we would be treated as having sold shares of the new china entity in a taxable transaction, likely resulting in a significant taxable gain. in addition, each u.s. holder of our common stock who receives shares of the new china entity in the spin-off transaction would generally be treated as receiving a taxable distribution of property in an amount equal to the fair market value of the shares of the new china entity received. that distribution would be taxable to each such stockholder as a dividend to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits. for each such stockholder, any amount that exceeded our earnings and profits would be treated first as a non-taxable return of capital to the extent of such stockholder's tax basis in our shares of common stock with any remaining amount being taxed as a capital gain. at the time of the spin-off, we will enter into a tax matters agreement with the new china entity. the tax matters agreement will address which company, yum or the new china entity, will be responsible for any taxes imposed as a result of the spin-off transaction. the spin-off may be subject to china indirect transfer tax. the china state administration of taxation recently issued bulletin 7 on income arising from indirect transfers of assets by non-resident enterprises. pursuant to bulletin 7, an "indirect transfer" of people's republic of china (prc) taxable assets, including equity interests in a prc resident enterprise, by a non-resident enterprise, may be recharacterized and treated as a direct transfer of prc taxable assets, if such arrangement does not have reasonable commercial purpose and the transferor has avoided payment of prc enterprise income tax. as a result, gains derived from such an indirect transfer may be subject to prc enterprise income tax of 10%. we have evaluated the potential applicability of bulletin 7 to our plan to separate our china business in a tax free restructuring and believe it is more likely than not that bulletin 7 does not apply. we believe that the restructuring has reasonable commercial purpose. however, given how recently bulletin 7 was promulgated there are significant uncertainties regarding what constitutes a reasonable commercial purpose, how the safe harbor provisions for group restructurings are to be interpreted and how the taxing authorities will ultimately view our planned spin-off. as a result, our position could be challenged by the tax authorities resulting in a 10% tax assessed on the difference between the fair market value and the tax basis of the separated china business. as our tax basis in the china business is minimal, the amount of such a tax could be significant and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our financial condition. if the proposed spin-off is consummated, there may be substantial changes in our stockholder base, which may cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate following the proposed spin-off. investors holding yum's common stock today may hold yum common stock because of a decision to invest in a company with significant china or emerging markets exposure. if the proposed spin-off is completed, shares of yum common stock will represent an investment in a company with less exposure to china, a key emerging market. this change may not match some holders' investment strategies, which could cause investors to sell their shares of yum common stock. excessive selling pressure could cause the market price of yum common stock to decrease following the completion of the proposed spin-off. 14 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the company is exposed to financial market risks associated with interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices. in the normal course of business and in accordance with our policies, we manage these risks through a variety of strategies, which may include the use of financial and commodity derivative instruments to hedge our underlying exposures. our policies prohibit the use of derivative instruments for trading purposes, and we have processes in place to monitor and control their use. interest rate risk we have a market risk exposure to changes in interest rates, principally in the u.s. we have attempted to minimize this risk and lower our overall borrowing costs on a portion of our debt through the utilization of derivative financial instruments, primarily interest rate swaps. these swaps were entered into with financial institutions and have reset dates and critical terms that match those of the underlying debt. accordingly, any change in fair value associated with interest rate swaps is offset by the opposite impact on the related debt. at december 26, 2015 and december 27, 2014 a hypothetical 100 basis-point increase in short-term interest rates would result, over the following twelve-month period, in a reduction of approximately $14 million and $5 million, respectively, in income before income taxes. the estimated reductions are based upon the current level of variable rate debt and assume no changes in the volume or composition of that debt and include no impact from interest income related to cash and cash equivalents. in addition, the fair value of our derivative financial instruments at december 26, 2015 and december 27, 2014 would decrease approximately $1 million and $4 million, respectively, as a result of the same hypothetical 100 basis-point increase and the fair value of our senior 47 unsecured notes at december 26, 2015 and december 27, 2014 would decrease approximately $119 million and $182 million, respectively. fair value was determined based on the present value of expected future cash flows considering the risks involved and using discount rates appropriate for the duration. foreign currency exchange rate risk changes in foreign currency exchange rates impact the translation of our reported foreign currency denominated earnings, cash flows and net investments in foreign operations and the fair value of our foreign currency denominated financial instruments. historically, we have chosen not to hedge foreign currency risks related to our foreign currency denominated earnings and cash flows through the use of financial instruments. we attempt to minimize the exposure related to our net investments in foreign operations by financing those investments with local currency denominated debt when practical. in addition, we attempt to minimize the exposure related to foreign currency denominated financial instruments by purchasing goods and services from third parties in local currencies when practical. consequently, foreign currency denominated financial instruments consist primarily of intercompany receivables and payables. at times, we utilize forward contracts and cross-currency swaps to reduce our exposure related to these intercompany receivables and payables. the notional amount and maturity dates of these contracts match those of the underlying receivables or payables such that our foreign currency exchange risk related to these instruments is minimized. the company's foreign currency net asset exposure (defined as foreign currency assets less foreign currency liabilities) totaled approximately $4.7 billion as of december 26, 2015 . operating in international markets exposes the company to movements in foreign currency exchange rates. the company's primary exposures result from our operations in asia-pacific, europe and the americas. for the fiscal year ended december 26, 2015 operating profit would have decreased approximately $155 million if all foreign currencies had uniformly weakened 10% relative to the u.s. dollar. this estimated reduction assumes no changes in sales volumes or local currency sales or input prices. commodity price risk we are subject to volatility in food costs as a result of market risk associated with commodity prices. our ability to recover increased costs through higher pricing is, at times, limited by the competitive environment in which we operate. we manage our exposure to this risk primarily through pricing agreements with our vendors. 48risk factors. you should carefully review the risks described below as they identify important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our forward-looking statements and historical trends. food safety and food-borne illness concerns may have an adverse effect on our business. food-borne illnesses, such as e. coli, hepatitis a, trichinosis and salmonella, occur or may occur within our system from time to time. in addition, food safety issues such as food tampering, contamination and adulteration occur or may occur within our system from time to time. any report or publicity linking us or one of our concepts' restaurants, including restaurants operated by us or our concepts' franchisees, or linking our competitors or our industry generally, to instances of food-borne illness or food safety issues could adversely affect our concepts' brands and reputations as well as our revenues and profits, and possibly lead to product liability claims, litigation and damages. if a customer of our concepts becomes ill as a result of food safety issues, restaurants in our system may be temporarily closed, which would decrease our revenues. in addition, instances or allegations of food-borne illness or food safety issues, real or perceived, involving our restaurants, restaurants of competitors, or suppliers or distributors (regardless of whether we use or have used those suppliers or distributors), or otherwise involving the types of food served at our restaurants, could result in negative publicity that could adversely affect our sales or the sales of our concepts' franchisees. the occurrence of food-borne illnesses or food safety issues could also adversely affect the price and availability of affected ingredients, which could result in disruptions in our supply chain and/or lower margins for us and our concepts' franchisees. health concerns arising from outbreaks of viruses or other diseases may have an adverse effect on our business. our business could be materially and adversely affected by the outbreak of a widespread health epidemic, including various strains of avian flu or swine flu, such as h1n1. the occurrence of such an outbreak of an epidemic illness or other adverse public health developments could materially disrupt our business and operations. such events could also significantly impact our industry and cause a temporary closure of restaurants, which would severely disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 7 our operations could be disrupted if any of our employees or employees of our business partners were suspected of having the avian flu or swine flu, since this could require us or our business partners to quarantine some or all of such employees or disinfect our restaurant facilities. outbreaks of avian flu occur from time to time around the world, and such outbreaks have resulted in confirmed human cases. it is possible that outbreaks could reach pandemic levels. public concern over avian flu generally may cause fear about the consumption of chicken, eggs and other products derived from poultry, which could cause customers to consume less poultry and related products. this would likely result in lower revenues and profits. avian flu outbreaks could also adversely affect the price and availability of poultry, which could negatively impact our profit margins and revenues. furthermore, other viruses may be transmitted through human contact, and the risk of contracting viruses could cause employees or guests to avoid gathering in public places, which could adversely affect restaurant guest traffic or the ability to adequately staff restaurants. we could also be adversely affected if jurisdictions in which our concepts' restaurants operate impose mandatory closures, seek voluntary closures or impose restrictions on operations of restaurants. even if such measures are not implemented and a virus or other disease does not spread significantly, the perceived risk of infection or health risk may affect our business. our operating results and growth strategies are closely and increasingly tied to the success of our concepts' franchisees. a significant and growing portion of our restaurants are operated by our concepts' franchisees. in october 2016, in connection with the spin-off of our china business, we announced our plan to become at least 98% franchised by the end of 2018. our refranchising efforts will increase our dependence on the financial success and cooperation of our concepts' franchisees. in addition, our long-term system sales growth targets depend on an acceleration of our historical net system unit growth rate. nearly all of this unit growth is expected to result from new unit openings by our franchisees. if our franchisees do not meet our expectations for new unit development, we may fall short of our system sales growth targets. we have limited control over how our concepts' franchisees' businesses are run, and the inability of franchisees to operate successfully could adversely affect our operating results through decreased royalty payments. if our concepts' franchisees incur too much debt, if their operating expenses or commodity prices increase or if economic or sales trends deteriorate such that they are unable to operate profitably or repay existing debt, it could result in their financial distress, including insolvency or bankruptcy. if a significant franchisee or a significant number of our concepts' franchisees become financially distressed, our operating results could be impacted through reduced or delayed royalty payments. in addition, we are contingently liable on certain of our concepts' franchisees' lease agreements, including lease agreements that we have guaranteed or assigned to franchisees in connection with refranchising of certain company restaurants, and our operating results could be impacted by any increased rent obligations for such leased properties. our success also depends on the willingness and ability of our concepts' franchisees to implement major initiatives, which may include financial investment. our concepts may be unable to successfully implement strategies that we believe are necessary for further growth if their franchisees do not participate, which in turn may harm the growth prospects and financial condition of the company. additionally, the failure of our concepts' franchisees to focus on the fundamentals of restaurant operations, such as quality service and cleanliness (even if such failures do not rise to the level of breaching the related franchise documents), could have a negative impact on our business. we may not successfully implement our transformation initiatives or fully realize the anticipated benefits from the transformation. on october 11, 2016, we announced our strategic transformation plans to drive global expansion of our kfc, pizza hut and taco bell brands following the spin-off of our china business. among other things, this transformation includes a plan to become at least 98% franchised by the end of 2018 and to significantly reduce annual capital expenditures and our general and administrative costs, each by the end of 2019. we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully implement our transformation initiatives. further, our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of this transformation, including the anticipated levels of cost savings and efficiency, within expected timeframes is subject to many estimates and assumptions, which are, in turn, subject to significant economic, competitive and other uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. there is no assurance that we will successfully implement, or fully realize the anticipated positive impact of, our transformation initiatives or execute successfully on our transformation strategy, in the expected timeframes or at all. in addition, there can be no assurance that our efforts, if properly executed, will result in our desired outcome of improved financial performance. we have significant exposure to the chinese market through our largest franchisee, yum china, which subjects us to risks that could negatively affect our business. in connection with the spin-off of our china business in october 2016, we entered into a master license agreement with yum china pursuant to which yum china is the exclusive licensee of the kfc, pizza hut and taco bell concepts and their related 8 marks and other intellectual property rights for restaurant services in china. following the spin-off, yum china is now our largest franchisee, and our overall financial results are significantly affected by yum china's results, and our business is exposed to risks in china. these risks include, among others, changes in economic conditions (including consumer spending, unemployment levels and wage and commodity inflation), consumer preferences, the regulatory environment, as well as increased media scrutiny of our business and industry, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates and increased competition. in addition, any significant or prolonged deterioration in u.s.-china relations could adversely affect our china operations if chinese consumers reduce the frequency of their visits to yum china's restaurants. chinese law regulates the scope of our business conducted within china. our business is therefore subject to numerous uncertainties based on the policies of the chinese government, as they may change from time to time. our relationship with yum china is governed by a master license agreement, which may be terminated upon the occurrence of certain events, such as the insolvency or bankruptcy of yum china. in addition, if we are unable to enforce our intellectual property or contract rights in china, if yum china is unable or unwilling to satisfy its obligations under the master license agreement, or if the master license agreement is otherwise terminated, it could result in an interruption in the operation of our brands that have been exclusively licensed to yum china for use in china. such interruption could result in a delay in or loss of royalty income to us, which would negatively impact our financial results. our international operations subject us to risks that could negatively affect our business. a significant portion of our concepts' restaurants are operated in countries and territories outside of the u.s., including in emerging markets, and we intend to continue expansion of our international operations. as a result, our business is increasingly exposed to risks inherent in international operations. these risks, which can vary substantially by country, include political instability, corruption and social and ethnic unrest, as well as changes in economic conditions (including consumer spending, unemployment levels and wage and commodity inflation), the regulatory environment, income and non-income based tax rates and laws, foreign exchange control regimes, consumer preferences and the laws and policies that govern foreign investment in countries where our restaurants are operated. in addition, our franchisees do business in jurisdictions that may be subject to trade or economic sanction regimes. any failure to comply with such sanction regimes or other similar laws or regulations could result in the assessment of damages, the imposition of penalties, suspension of business licenses, or a cessation of operations at our franchisees' businesses, as well as damage to our and our concepts' brands' images and reputations, all of which could harm our profitability. foreign currency risks and foreign exchange controls could adversely affect our financial results. our results of operations and the value of our foreign assets are affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which may adversely affect reported earnings. more specifically, an increase in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to other currencies, such as the chinese renminbi ( rmb ), australian dollar, the british pound and the euro, as well as currencies in certain other markets, such as the malaysian ringgit and russian ruble, could have an adverse effect on our reported earnings. there can be no assurance as to the future effect of any such changes on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. in addition, the chinese government restricts the convertibility of rmb into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of china. yum china's income is almost exclusively derived from the earnings of its chinese subsidiaries, with substantially all revenues of its chinese subsidiaries denominated in rmb. any significant fluctuation in the value of the rmb could materially impact the u.s. dollar value of royalty payments made to us by yum china, which could result in lower revenues. in addition restrictions on the conversion of rmb to u.s. dollars or further restrictions on the remittance of currency out of china could result in delays in the remittance of yum china's license fee, which could impact our liquidity. failure to protect the integrity and security of personal information of our customers and employees could result in substantial costs, expose us to litigation and damage our reputation. we receive and maintain certain personal, financial and other information about our customers, employees and franchisees. the use and handling of this information is regulated by evolving and increasingly demanding laws and regulations in various jurisdictions, as well as by certain third-party contracts. if our security and information systems are compromised as a result of data corruption or loss, cyber-attack or a network security incident or if our employees, franchisees or vendors fail to comply with these laws and regulations and this information is obtained by unauthorized persons or used inappropriately, it could result in liabilities and penalties and could damage our reputation, cause us to incur substantial costs and result in a loss of customer confidence, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. additionally, we could be subject to litigation and government enforcement actions as a result of any such failure. further, data privacy is subject to frequently changing rules and regulations, which sometimes conflict among the various jurisdictions and countries where we, our concepts and our concepts' franchisees do business. our failure to adhere to or 9 successfully implement appropriate processes in this area could result in legal liability or impairment to our and our brands' reputations. our inability or failure to recognize, respond to and effectively manage the accelerated impact of social media could adversely impact our business. in recent years, there has been a marked increase in the use of social media platforms, including blogs, chat platforms, social media websites, and other forms of internet-based communications which allow individuals access to a broad audience of consumers and other interested persons. the rising popularity of social media and other consumer-oriented technologies has increased the speed and accessibility of information dissemination. many social media platforms immediately publish the content their subscribers and participants post, often without filters or checks on accuracy of the content posted. information posted on such platforms at any time may be adverse to our interests and/or may be inaccurate. the dissemination of information via social media could harm our business, reputation, financial condition, and results of operations, regardless of the information's accuracy. the damage may be immediate without affording us an opportunity for redress or correction. in addition, social media is frequently used by our concepts to communicate with their respective customers and the public in general. failure by our concepts to use social media effectively or appropriately, particularly as compared to our concept's respective competitors, could lead to a decline in brand value, customer visits and revenue. other risks associated with the use of social media include improper disclosure of proprietary information, negative comments about our concepts' brands, exposure of personally identifiable information, fraud, hoaxes or malicious dissemination of false information. the inappropriate use of social media by our customers or employees could increase our costs, lead to litigation or result in negative publicity that could damage our reputation and adversely affect our results of operations. shortages or interruptions in the availability and delivery of food and other supplies may increase costs or reduce revenues. the products sold by our concepts and their franchisees are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international suppliers. we, along with our concepts' franchisees, are also dependent upon third parties to make frequent deliveries of food products and supplies that meet our specifications at competitive prices. shortages or interruptions in the supply of food items and other supplies to our restaurants could adversely affect the availability, quality and cost of items we use and the operations of our restaurants. such shortages or disruptions could be caused by inclement weather, natural disasters, increased demand, problems in production or distribution, restrictions on imports or exports, the inability of vendors to obtain credit, political instability in the countries in which suppliers and distributors are located, the financial instability of suppliers and distributors, suppliers' or distributors' failure to meet our standards, product quality issues, inflation, other factors relating to the suppliers and distributors and the countries in which they are located, food safety warnings or advisories or the prospect of such pronouncements, the cancellation of supply or distribution agreements or an inability to renew such arrangements or to find replacements on commercially reasonable terms, or other conditions beyond our control or the control of our concepts' franchisees. in the u.s., the company, along with representatives of the company's kfc, pizza hut and taco bell franchisee groups, are members of restaurant supply chain solutions, llc ( rscs"), which is responsible for purchasing certain restaurant products and equipment. any failure or inability of rscs to perform its purchasing obligations could result in shortages or interruptions in the availability of food and other supplies. a shortage or interruption in the availability of certain food products or supplies could increase costs and limit the availability of products critical to restaurant operations, which in turn could lead to restaurant closures and/or a decrease in sales. in addition, failure by a key supplier or distributor for our concepts and/or our concepts' franchisees to meet its service requirements could lead to a disruption of service or supply until a new supplier or distributor is engaged, and any disruption could have an adverse effect on our business. we may not achieve our target development goals, aggressive development could cannibalize existing sales and new restaurants may not be profitable. our growth strategy depends on our and our franchisees' ability to increase our net restaurant count in markets around the world, especially in emerging markets. the successful development of new units depends in large part on the ability of our concepts' franchisees to open new restaurants and to operate these restaurants profitably. we cannot guarantee that we, or our concepts' franchisees, including yum china, will be able to achieve our expansion goals or that new restaurants will be operated profitably. further, there is no assurance that any new restaurant will produce operating results similar to those of our existing restaurants. other risks that could impact our ability to increase the number of our restaurants include prevailing economic conditions and our, or our concepts' franchisees', ability to obtain suitable restaurant locations, negotiate acceptable lease or purchase terms for the locations, obtain required permits and approvals in a timely manner, hire and train qualified restaurant crews and meet construction schedules. 10 expansion into target markets could also be affected by our concepts' franchisees' ability to obtain financing to construct and open new restaurants. if it becomes more difficult or more expensive for our concepts' franchisees to obtain financing to develop new restaurants, the expected growth of our system could slow and our future revenues and operating cash flows could be adversely impacted. in addition, the new restaurants could impact the sales of our concepts' existing restaurants nearby. there can be no assurance that sales cannibalization will not occur or become more significant in the future as we increase our presence in existing markets. labor shortages or difficulty finding qualified employees could slow our growth, harm our business and reduce our profitability. restaurant operations are highly service-oriented and our success depends in part upon our and our concepts' franchisees' ability to attract, retain and motivate a sufficient number of qualified employees, including restaurant managers and other crew members. the market for qualified employees in our industry is very competitive. any future inability to recruit and retain qualified individuals may delay the planned openings of new restaurants by us and our concepts' franchisees and could adversely impact our concepts' existing restaurants. any such delays, material increases in employee turnover rate in existing restaurants or widespread employee dissatisfaction could have a material adverse effect on our and our concepts' franchisees' business and results of operations. in addition, strikes, work slowdowns or other job actions may become more common in the u.s. in the event of a strike, work slowdown or other labor unrest, the ability to adequately staff our concept's restaurants could be impaired, which could result in reduced revenue and customer claims, and may distract our management from focusing on our business and strategic priorities. changes in labor and other operating costs could adversely affect our results of operations. an increase in the costs of employee wages, benefits and insurance (including workers' compensation, general liability, property and health) as well as other operating costs such as rent and energy costs could adversely affect our operating results. such increases could result from government imposition of higher minimum wages or from general economic or competitive conditions. any increase in such operating expenses could adversely affect our and our concepts' franchisees' profit margins. in addition, competition for qualified employees could also compel us or our concepts' franchisees to pay higher wages to attract or retain key crew members, which could result in higher labor costs and decreased profitability. a broader standard for determining joint employer status may adversely affect our business operations and increase our liabilities resulting from actions by our concepts' franchisees. in 2015, the national labor relations board (the nlrb ) adopted a new and broader standard for determining when two or more otherwise unrelated employers may be found to be a joint employer of the same employees under the national labor relations act. in addition, the general counsel's office of the nlrb has issued complaints naming mcdonald's corporation as a joint employer of workers at its franchisees for alleged violations of the u.s. fair labor standards act. the nlrb's proposed and evolving joint employer liability standard could cause us or our concepts to be liable or held responsible for unfair labor practices, violations of wage and hour laws, and other violations and could also require our concepts to conduct collective bargaining negotiations, regarding employees of our concepts' franchisees. further, there is no assurance that we or our concepts will not receive similar complaints as mcdonald's corporation in the future, which could result in legal proceedings based on the actions of our concepts' franchisees. in such events, our operating expenses may increase as a result of required modifications to our business practices, increased litigation, governmental investigations or proceedings, administrative enforcement actions, fines and civil liability. an increase in food prices may have an adverse impact on our and our franchisees' profit margins. our and our concepts' franchisees' businesses depend on reliable sources of large quantities of raw materials such as protein (including poultry, pork, beef and seafood), cheese, oil, flour and vegetables (including potatoes and lettuce). raw materials purchased for use in our concepts' restaurants are subject to price volatility caused by any fluctuation in aggregate supply and demand, or other external conditions, such as weather conditions or natural events or disasters that affect expected harvests of such raw materials. as a result, the historical prices of raw materials used in the operation of our concepts' restaurants have fluctuated. we cannot assure you that we or our concepts' franchisees will continue to be able to purchase raw materials at reasonable prices, or that raw materials prices will remain stable in the future. in addition, a significant increase in gasoline prices could result in the imposition of fuel surcharges by our distributors. because we and our concepts' franchisees provide competitively priced food, we may not have the ability to pass through to our customers the full amount of any commodity price increases. if we and our concepts' franchisees are unable to manage the cost 11 of raw materials or to increase the prices of products proportionately, it may have an adverse impact on our and our franchisees' profit margins. our concepts' brands may be limited or diluted through franchisee and third-party activity. although we monitor and regulate franchisee activities through our franchise agreements, franchisees or other third parties may refer to or make statements about our concepts' brands that do not make proper use of our trademarks or required designations, that improperly alter trademarks or branding, or that are critical of our concepts' brands or place our concepts' brands in a context that may tarnish their reputation. this may result in dilution of or harm to our intellectual property or the value of our concept's brands. franchisee noncompliance with the terms and conditions of our franchise agreements may reduce the overall goodwill of our concepts' brands, whether through the failure to meet health and safety standards, engage in quality control or maintain product consistency, or through the participation in improper or objectionable business practices. moreover, unauthorized third parties may use our intellectual property to trade on the goodwill of our concepts' brands, resulting in consumer confusion or dilution. any reduction of our concepts' brands' goodwill, consumer confusion, or dilution is likely to impact sales, and could materially and adversely impact our business and results of operations. our success depends substantially on our corporate reputation and on the value and perception of our brands. our success depends in large part upon our ability and our concepts' franchisees' ability to maintain and enhance the value of our brands and our customers' loyalty to our brands. brand value is based in part on consumer perceptions on a variety of subjective qualities. business incidents, whether isolated or recurring, and whether originating from us, franchisees, competitors, suppliers or distributors, can significantly reduce brand value and consumer trust, particularly if the incidents receive considerable publicity or result in litigation. for example, our concepts' brands could be damaged by claims or perceptions about the quality or safety of our products or the quality or reputation of our suppliers, distributors or franchisees, regardless of whether such claims or perceptions are true. similarly, entities in our supply chain may engage in conduct, including alleged human rights abuses or environmental wrongdoing, and any such conduct could damage our or our concepts' brands' reputations. any such incidents (even if resulting from actions of a competitor or franchisee) could cause a decline directly or indirectly in consumer confidence in, or the perception of, our concepts' brands and/or our products and reduce consumer demand for our products, which would likely result in lower revenues and profits. additionally, our corporate reputation could suffer from a real or perceived failure of corporate governance or misconduct by a company officer, or an employee or representative of us or a franchisee. we could be party to litigation that could adversely affect us by increasing our expenses, diverting management attention or subjecting us to significant monetary damages and other remedies. we are regularly involved in legal proceedings, which include consumer, employment, real estate related, tort, intellectual property, breach of contract, securities, derivative and other litigation (see the discussion of legal proceedings in note 20 to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this form 10-k). plaintiffs in these types of lawsuits often seek recovery of very large or indeterminate amounts, and the magnitude of the potential loss relating to such lawsuits may not be accurately estimated. regardless of whether any such claims have merit, or whether we are ultimately held liable or settle, such litigation may be expensive to defend and may divert resources and management attention away from our operations and negatively impact reported earnings. with respect to insured claims, a judgment for monetary damages in excess of any insurance coverage could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. any adverse publicity resulting from these allegations may also adversely affect our reputation, which in turn could adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, the restaurant industry around the world has been subject to claims that relate to the nutritional content of food products, as well as claims that the menus and practices of restaurant chains have led to customer health issues, including weight gain and other adverse effects. these concerns could lead to an increase in the regulation of the content or marketing of our products. we may also be subject to such claims in the future and, even if we are not, publicity about these matters (particularly directed at the quick service and fast-casual segments of the retail food industry) may harm our reputation and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. changes in, or noncompliance with, governmental regulations may adversely affect our business operations, growth prospects or financial condition. our concepts and their franchisees are subject to numerous laws and regulations around the world. these laws change regularly and are increasingly complex. for example, we are subject to: 12 the americans with disabilities act in the u.s. and similar state laws that give civil rights protections to individuals with disabilities in the context of employment, public accommodations and other areas. the u.s. fair labor standards act, which governs matters such as minimum wages, overtime and other working conditions, as well as family leave mandates and a variety of similar state laws that govern these and other employment law matters. laws and regulations in government-mandated health care benefits such as the patient protection and affordable care act. laws and regulations relating to nutritional content, nutritional labeling, product safety, product marketing and menu labeling. laws relating to state and local licensing. laws relating to the relationship between franchisors and franchisees. laws and regulations relating to health, sanitation, food, workplace safety, child labor, including laws prohibiting the use of certain hazardous equipment by employees younger than the age of 18 years of age, and fire safety and prevention. laws and regulations relating to union organizing rights and activities. laws relating to information security, privacy, cashless payments, and consumer protection. laws relating to currency conversion or exchange. laws relating to international trade and sanctions. tax laws and regulations. anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws. environmental laws and regulations. federal and state immigration laws and regulations in the u.s. compliance with new or existing laws and regulations could impact our operations. the compliance costs associated with these laws and regulations could be substantial. any failure or alleged failure to comply with these laws or regulations could adversely affect our reputation, international expansion efforts, growth prospects and financial results or result in, among other things, litigation, revocation of required licenses, internal investigations, governmental investigations or proceedings, administrative enforcement actions, fines and civil and criminal liability. publicity relating to any such noncompliance could also harm our reputation and adversely affect our revenues. failure to comply with anti-bribery or anti-corruption laws could adversely affect our business operations. the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, the uk bribery act and other similar applicable laws prohibiting bribery of government officials and other corrupt practices are the subject of increasing emphasis and enforcement around the world. although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to promote compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, agents or other third parties will not take actions in violation of our policies or applicable law, particularly as we expand our operations in emerging markets and elsewhere. any such violations or suspected violations could subject us to civil or criminal penalties, including substantial fines and significant investigation costs, and could also materially damage our reputation, brands, international expansion efforts and growth prospects, business and operating results. publicity relating to any noncompliance or alleged noncompliance could also harm our reputation and adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. tax matters, including changes in tax rates, disagreements with taxing authorities and imposition of new taxes could impact our results of operations and financial condition. a significant percentage of our income is earned outside the u.s. and currently taxed at lower rates than the u.s. statutory rates. however, if the cash generated by our u.s. business is not sufficient to meet our need for cash in the u.s., we may need to repatriate a greater portion of our international earnings to the u.s. in the future. we are required to record u.s. income tax expense in our financial statements at the point in time when our management determines that we no longer have the ability and intent to indefinitely postpone tax consequences related to those international earnings. this could cause our worldwide effective tax rate to increase materially. we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property, withholding and franchise taxes in both the u.s. and various foreign jurisdictions. we are also subject to regular reviews, examinations and audits by the u.s. internal revenue service ( irs ) and other taxing authorities with respect to such income and non-income based taxes inside and outside of the u.s. if the irs or another taxing authority disagrees with our tax positions, we could face additional tax liabilities, including interest and penalties. payment of such additional amounts upon final settlement or adjudication of any disputes could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position. in addition, we are directly and indirectly affected by new tax legislation and regulation and the interpretation of tax laws and regulations worldwide. changes in legislation, regulation or interpretation of existing laws and regulations in the u.s. and other 13 jurisdictions where we are subject to taxation could increase our taxes and have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. the yum china spin-off and certain related transactions could result in substantial u.s. tax liability. we received opinions of outside counsel substantially to the effect that, for u.s. federal income tax purposes, the yum china spin-off and certain related transactions qualify as generally tax-free under sections 355 and 361 of the u.s. internal revenue code. the opinions relied on various facts and assumptions, as well as certain representations as to factual matters and undertakings (including with respect to future conduct) made by yum china and us. if any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are incorrect or not satisfied, we may not be able to rely on these opinions of outside counsel. accordingly, notwithstanding receipt of the opinions of outside counsel, the conclusions reached in the tax opinions may be challenged by the irs. because the opinions are not binding on the irs or the courts, there can be no assurance that the irs or the courts will not prevail in any such challenge. if, notwithstanding receipt of any opinion, the irs were to conclude that the yum china spin-off was taxable, in general, we would recognize taxable gain as if we had sold the yum china common stock in a taxable sale for its fair market value. in addition, each u.s. holder of our common stock who received shares of yum china common stock in the spin-off transaction would generally be treated as having received a taxable distribution of property in an amount equal to the fair market value of the shares of yum china common stock received. that distribution would be taxable to each such u.s. stockholder as a dividend to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits. for each such u.s. stockholder, any amount that exceeded our earnings and profits would be treated first as a non-taxable return of capital to the extent of such stockholder's tax basis in our shares of common stock with any remaining amount being taxed as a capital gain. the yum china spin-off may be subject to china indirect transfer tax. in february 2015, the chinese state administration of taxation ( sat ) issued the bulletin on several issues of enterprise income tax on income arising from indirect transfers of property by non-resident enterprises ( bulletin 7 ). pursuant to bulletin 7, an indirect transfer of chinese taxable assets, including equity interests in a china resident enterprise ( chinese interests ), by a non-resident enterprise, may be recharacterized and treated as a direct transfer of chinese taxable assets, if such arrangement does not have reasonable commercial purpose and the transferor has avoided payment of chinese enterprise income tax. using general anti-tax avoidance provisions, the sat may treat an indirect transfer as a direct transfer of chinese interests if the transfer has avoided chinese tax by way of an arrangement without reasonable commercial purpose. as a result, gains derived from such indirect transfer may be subject to chinese enterprise income tax, and the transferee or other person who is obligated to pay for the transfer would be obligated to withhold the applicable taxes, currently at a rate of up to 10% of the capital gain in the case of an indirect transfer of equity interests in a china resident enterprise. we evaluated the potential applicability of bulletin 7 in connection with the separation in the form of a tax free restructuring and believe it is more likely than not that bulletin 7 does not apply. we believe that the restructuring has reasonable commercial purpose. however, given how recently bulletin 7 was promulgated, there are significant uncertainties regarding what constitutes a reasonable commercial purpose, how the safe harbor provisions for group restructurings are to be interpreted and how the chinese tax authorities will ultimately view the spin-off. as a result, our position could be challenged by the chinese tax authorities resulting in a tax at a rate of 10% assessed on the difference between the fair market value and the tax basis of yum china. as our tax basis in yum china was minimal, the amount of such a tax could be significant and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our financial condition. failure to protect our service marks or other intellectual property could harm our business. we regard our yum , kfc , pizza hut and taco bell service marks, and other service marks and trademarks related to our restaurant businesses, as having significant value and being important to our marketing efforts. we rely on a combination of protections provided by contracts, copyrights, patents, trademarks, service marks and other common law rights, such as trade secret and unfair competition laws, to protect our restaurants and services from infringement. we have registered certain trademarks and service marks in the u.s. and foreign jurisdictions. however, from time to time we become aware of names and marks identical or confusingly similar to our service marks being used by other persons. although our policy is to oppose any such infringement, further or unknown unauthorized uses or other misappropriation of our trademarks or service marks could diminish the value of our brands and adversely affect our business. in addition, effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which our concepts have, or intend to open or franchise, a restaurant. there can be no assurance that these protections will be adequate, and defending or enforcing our service marks and other intellectual property could result in the expenditure of 14 significant resources. we may also face claims of infringement that could interfere with the use of the proprietary know-how, concepts, recipes, or trade secrets used in our business. defending against such claims may be costly, and we may be prohibited from using such proprietary information in the future or forced to pay damages, royalties, or other fees for using such proprietary information, any of which could negatively affect our business, reputation, financial condition, and results of operations. our business may be adversely impacted by changes in consumer discretionary spending and general economic conditions. purchases at our restaurants are discretionary for consumers and, therefore, our results of operations are susceptible to economic slowdowns and recessions. our results of operations are dependent upon discretionary spending by consumers, which may be affected by general economic conditions globally or in one or more of the markets we serve. some of the factors that impact discretionary consumer spending include unemployment rates, fluctuations in the level of disposable income, the price of gasoline, stock market performance and changes in the level of consumer confidence. these and other macroeconomic factors could have an adverse effect on our sales, profitability or development plans, which could harm our financial condition and operating results. the retail food industry in which we operate is highly competitive. the retail food industry in which we operate is highly competitive with respect to price and quality of food products, new product development, advertising levels and promotional initiatives, customer service, reputation, restaurant location, and attractiveness and maintenance of properties. if consumer or dietary preferences change, if our marketing efforts are unsuccessful, or if our concepts' restaurants are unable to compete successfully with other retail food outlets in new and existing markets, our business could be adversely affected. we also face growing competition as a result of convergence in grocery, convenience, deli and restaurant services, including the offering by the grocery industry of convenient meals, including pizzas and entrees with side dishes. competition from delivery aggregators and other food delivery services has also increased in recent years, particularly in urbanized areas. increased competition could have an adverse effect on our sales, profitability or development plans, which could harm our financial condition and operating results. our substantial indebtedness makes us more sensitive to adverse economic conditions, may limit our ability to plan for or respond to significant changes in our business, and requires a significant amount of cash to service our debt payment obligations that we may be unable to generate or obtain. in 2016, we increased our indebtedness from approximately $4 billion to approximately $9 billion. the proceeds from the debt were primarily used to return capital to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends. subject to the limits contained in the agreements governing our indebtedness, we may be able to incur additional debt from time to time, which would intensify the risks related to our high level of indebtedness. specifically, our high level of indebtedness could have important potential consequences, including, but not limited to: increasing our vulnerability to, and reducing our flexibility to plan for and respond to, adverse economic and industry conditions and changes in our business and the competitive environment; requiring the dedication of a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal of, and interest on, indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of such cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, dividends, share repurchases or other corporate purposes; increasing our vulnerability to a further downgrade of our credit rating, which could adversely affect our cost of funds, liquidity and access to capital markets; restricting us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures; placing us at a disadvantage compared to other less leveraged competitors or competitors with comparable debt at more favorable interest rates; increasing our exposure to the risk of increased interest rates insofar as current and future borrowings are subject to variable rates of interest; making it more difficult for us to repay, refinance or satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt; limiting our ability to borrow additional funds in the future and increasing the cost of any such borrowing; imposing restrictive covenants on our operations, which, if not complied with, could result in an event of default, which in turn, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of the applicable debt, and may result in the acceleration of any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies; and increasing our exposure to risks related to fluctuations in foreign currency as we earn profits in a variety of currencies around the world and our debt is denominated in u.s. dollars. there is no assurance that we will generate cash flow from operations or that future debt or equity financings will be available to us to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund other liquidity needs. if our business does not generate sufficient cash flow from operation in the amounts projected or at all, or if future borrowings are not available to us in amounts sufficient to pay our 15 indebtedness or to fund other liquidity needs, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. as a result, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. there is no assurance that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on favorable terms, or at all. any inability to generate sufficient cash flow or refinance our indebtedness on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the company is exposed to financial market risks associated with interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices. in the normal course of business and in accordance with our policies, we manage these risks through a variety of strategies, which may include the use of financial and commodity derivative instruments to hedge our underlying exposures. our policies prohibit the use of derivative instruments for trading purposes, and we have processes in place to monitor and control their use. interest rate risk we have a market risk exposure to changes in interest rates, principally in the u.s. our outstanding long-term debt of $9.1 billion includes 73% fixed-rate debt and 27% variable-rate debt. we have attempted to minimize the interest rate risk related to $1.55 billion of this variable-rate debt through the use of interest rate swaps. as a result, approximately 90% of our $9.1 billion of outstanding debt at december 31, 2016 is effectively fixed-rate debt. see note 11 for details on these issuances and repayments and note 13 for details related to interest rate swaps. as of december 31, 2016 and december 26, 2015 a hypothetical 100 basis-point increase in short-term interest rates would result, over the following twelve-month period after consideration of the aforementioned interest rate swaps, in an increase of approximately $10 million and $14 million, respectively, in interest expense, net within our consolidated statements of income. these estimated amounts are based upon the current level of variable-rate debt that has not been swapped to fixed and assume no changes in the volume or composition of that debt and include no impact from interest income related to cash and cash equivalents. the fair value of our cumulative fixed-rate debt of $6.6 billion as of december 31, 2016, would decrease approximately $375 million as a result of the same hypothetical 100 basis-point increase. at december 31, 2016, a hypothetical 100 basis-point decrease in short-term interest rates would decrease the fair value of our interest rate swaps approximately $55 million. fair value was determined based on the present value of expected future cash flows considering the risks involved and using discount rates appropriate for the durations. foreign currency exchange rate risk changes in foreign currency exchange rates impact the translation of our reported foreign currency denominated earnings, cash flows and net investments in foreign operations and the fair value of our foreign currency denominated financial instruments. historically, we have chosen not to hedge foreign currency risks related to our foreign currency denominated earnings and cash flows through the use of financial instruments. we attempt to minimize the exposure related to our net investments in foreign operations by financing those investments with local currency denominated debt when practical. in addition, we attempt to minimize the exposure related to foreign currency denominated financial instruments by purchasing goods and services from third parties in local currencies when practical. consequently, foreign currency denominated financial instruments consist primarily of intercompany receivables and payables. at times, we utilize forward contracts and cross-currency swaps to reduce our exposure related to these intercompany receivables and payables. the notional amount and maturity dates of these contracts match those of the underlying receivables or payables such that our foreign currency exchange risk related to these instruments is minimized. the company's foreign currency net asset exposure (defined as foreign currency assets less foreign currency liabilities) totaled approximately $2.1 billion as of december 31, 2016 . operating in international markets exposes the company to movements in foreign currency exchange rates. the company's primary exposures result from our operations in asia-pacific, europe and the americas. for the fiscal year ended december 31, 2016 operating profit would have decreased approximately $105 million if all foreign currencies had uniformly weakened 10% relative to the u.s. dollar. this estimated reduction assumes no changes in sales volumes or local currency sales or input prices. commodity price risk we are subject to volatility in food costs as a result of market risk associated with commodity prices. our ability to recover increased costs through higher pricing is, at times, limited by the competitive environment in which we operate. we manage our exposure to this risk primarily through pricing agreements with our vendors. 46risk factors. you should carefully review the risks described below as they identify important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our forward-looking statements and historical trends. food safety and food-borne illness concerns may have an adverse effect on our business. food-borne illnesses, such as e. coli, trichinosis, listeria and salmonella, occur or may occur within our system from time to time. in addition, food safety issues such as food tampering, contamination and adulteration occur or may occur within our system from time to time. any report or publicity linking us or one of our concepts' restaurants, including restaurants operated by us or our concepts' franchisees, or linking our competitors or our industry generally, to instances of food-borne illness or food safety issues could adversely affect our concepts' brands and reputations as well as our revenues and profits, and possibly lead to product liability claims, litigation and damages. if a customer of one of our concepts becomes ill as a result of food safety issues, restaurants in our system may be temporarily closed, which could disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, instances or allegations of food-borne illness or food safety issues, real or perceived, involving our restaurants, restaurants of competitors, or suppliers or distributors (regardless of whether we use or have used those suppliers or distributors), or otherwise involving the types of food served at our restaurants, could result in negative publicity that could adversely affect our sales or the sales of our concepts' franchisees. the occurrence of food-borne illnesses or food safety issues could also adversely affect the price and availability of affected ingredients, which could result in disruptions in our supply chain and/or lower margins for us and our concepts' franchisees. 7 health concerns arising from outbreaks of viruses or other diseases may have an adverse effect on our business. our business could be materially and adversely affected by the outbreak of a widespread health epidemic, including various strains of avian flu or swine flu, such as h1n1. the occurrence of such an outbreak of an epidemic, illness or other adverse public health developments could materially disrupt our business and operations. such events could also significantly impact our industry and cause a temporary closure of restaurants, which would severely disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our operations could be disrupted if any of our employees or employees of our business partners were suspected of having the avian flu or swine flu, or other illnesses such as hepatitis a or norovirus, since this could require us or our business partners to quarantine some or all of such employees or disinfect our restaurant facilities. outbreaks of avian flu occur from time to time around the world, and such outbreaks have resulted in confirmed human cases. it is possible that outbreaks could reach pandemic levels. public concern over avian flu generally may cause fear about the consumption of chicken, eggs and other products derived from poultry, which could cause customers to consume less poultry and related products. because poultry is a menu offering for our concepts, this would likely result in lower revenues and profits for us and our concepts' franchisees. avian flu outbreaks could also adversely affect the price and availability of poultry, which could negatively impact our profit margins and revenues. furthermore, other viruses may be transmitted through human contact, and the risk of contracting viruses could cause employees or guests to avoid gathering in public places, which could adversely affect restaurant guest traffic or the ability to adequately staff restaurants. we could also be adversely affected if government authorities impose mandatory closures, seek voluntary closures or impose restrictions on operations of restaurants. even if such measures are not implemented and a virus or other disease does not spread significantly, the perceived risk of infection or health risk may affect our business. our operating results and growth strategies are closely and increasingly tied to the success of our concepts' franchisees. a significant and growing portion of our restaurants are operated by our concepts' franchisees. in 2016, we announced our plan to become at least 98% franchised by the end of 2018. our refranchising efforts have increased, and will continue to increase, our dependence on the financial success and cooperation of our concepts' franchisees. in addition, our long-term system sales growth targets depend on an acceleration of our historical net system unit growth rate. nearly all of this unit growth is expected to result from new unit openings by our concepts' franchisees. if our concepts' franchisees do not meet our expectations for new unit development, we may fall short of our system sales growth targets. we have limited control over how our concepts' franchisees' businesses are run, and their inability to operate successfully could adversely affect our operating results through decreased royalty payments. if our concepts' franchisees incur too much debt, if their operating expenses or commodity prices increase or if economic or sales trends deteriorate such that they are unable to operate profitably or repay existing debt, it could result in their financial distress, including insolvency or bankruptcy. if a significant franchisee of one of our concepts becomes, or a significant number of our concepts' franchisees in the aggregate become, financially distressed, our operating results could be impacted through reduced or delayed royalty payments and reduced new unit development. in addition, we are contingently liable on certain of our concepts' franchisees' lease agreements, including lease agreements that we have guaranteed or assigned to franchisees in connection with the refranchising of certain company-owned restaurants. our operating results could be impacted by any increased rent obligations for such leased properties to the extent our concepts' franchisees default on such lease agreements. our success also depends on the willingness and ability of our concepts' franchisees to implement major initiatives such as restaurant remodels or equipment or technology upgrades, which may require financial investment. our concepts may be unable to successfully implement strategies that we believe are necessary for further growth if their franchisees do not participate, which in turn may harm the growth prospects and financial condition of the company. additionally, the failure of our concepts' franchisees to focus on the fundamentals of restaurant operations, such as quality service and cleanliness (even if such failures do not rise to the level of breaching the related franchise documents), could have a negative impact on our business. we may not successfully implement our transformation initiatives or fully realize the anticipated benefits from the transformation. we are in the process of implementing our strategic transformation plans to drive global expansion of our kfc, pizza hut and taco bell brands. among other things, this transformation includes a plan to become at least 98% franchised by the end of 2018 and to significantly reduce annual capital expenditures and our general and administrative costs, each by the end of 2019. we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully implement our transformation initiatives. further, our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of this transformation, including the anticipated levels of cost savings and efficiency, within expected timeframes is subject to many estimates and assumptions, which are, in turn, subject to significant economic, competitive and other uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. there is no assurance that we will successfully implement, or fully 8 realize the anticipated positive impact of, our transformation initiatives, or execute successfully on our transformation strategy, in the expected timeframes or at all. in addition, there can be no assurance that our efforts, if properly executed, will result in our desired outcome of improved financial performance. we have significant exposure to the chinese market through our largest franchisee, yum china, which subjects us to risks that could negatively affect our business. in connection with the separation, we entered into a master license agreement with yum china pursuant to which yum china is the exclusive licensee of the kfc, pizza hut and taco bell concepts and their related marks and other intellectual property rights for restaurant services in china. following the separation, yum china became, and continues to be, our largest franchisee. as a result, our overall financial results are significantly affected by yum china's results. yum china's business is exposed to risks in china, which include, among others, changes in economic conditions (including consumer spending, unemployment levels and wage and commodity inflation), consumer preferences, and the regulatory environment, as well as increased media scrutiny of our concepts and industry, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates and increased competition. further, any significant or prolonged deterioration in u.s.-china relations could adversely affect our concepts in china if chinese consumers reduce the frequency of their visits to yum china's restaurants. chinese law regulates yum china's business conducted within china. our royalty income from the yum china business is therefore subject to numerous uncertainties based on the policies of the chinese government, as they may change from time to time. our relationship with yum china is governed by a master license agreement, which may be terminated upon the occurrence of certain events, such as the insolvency or bankruptcy of yum china. in addition, if we are unable to enforce our intellectual property or contract rights in china, if yum china is unable or unwilling to satisfy its obligations under the master license agreement, or if the master license agreement is otherwise terminated, it could result in an interruption in the operation of our brands that have been exclusively licensed to yum china for use in china. such interruption could cause a delay in, or loss of, royalty income to us, which would negatively impact our financial results. our international operations subject us to risks that could negatively affect our business. a significant portion of our concepts' restaurants are operated in countries and territories outside of the u.s., including in emerging markets, and we intend to continue expansion of our international operations. as a result, our business is increasingly exposed to risks inherent in international operations. these risks, which can vary substantially by country, include political instability, corruption, anti-american sentiment and social and ethnic unrest, as well as changes in economic conditions (including consumer spending, unemployment levels and wage and commodity inflation), the regulatory environment, income and non-income based tax rates and laws, sanctions, foreign exchange control regimes, consumer preferences and the laws and policies that govern foreign investment in countries where our restaurants are operated. in addition, our franchisees do business in jurisdictions that may be subject to trade or economic sanction regimes and such sanctions could be expanded. any failure to comply with such sanction regimes or other similar laws or regulations could result in the assessment of damages, the imposition of penalties, suspension of business licenses, or a cessation of operations at our franchisees' businesses, as well as damage to our and our concepts' brands' images and reputations, all of which could harm our profitability. foreign currency risks and foreign exchange controls could adversely affect our financial results. our results of operations and the value of our foreign assets are affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which may adversely affect reported earnings. more specifically, an increase in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to other currencies, such as the chinese renminbi ( rmb ), australian dollar, the british pound and the euro, as well as currencies in certain other markets, such as the malaysian ringgit and russian ruble, could have an adverse effect on our reported earnings. there can be no assurance as to the future effect of any such changes on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. in addition, the chinese government restricts the convertibility of rmb into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of china. yum china's income is almost exclusively derived from the earnings of its chinese subsidiaries, with substantially all revenues of its chinese subsidiaries denominated in rmb. any significant fluctuation in the value of the rmb could materially impact the u.s. dollar value of royalty payments made to us by yum china, which could result in lower revenues. in addition restrictions on the conversion of rmb to u.s. dollars or further restrictions on the remittance of currency out of china could result in delays in the remittance of yum china's license fee, which could impact our liquidity. failure to protect the integrity and security of personal information of our customers and employees could result in substantial costs, expose us to litigation and damage our reputation. we receive and maintain certain personal, financial and other information about our customers, employees and franchisees. in addition, our vendors and/or franchisees receive and maintain certain personal, financial and other information about our employees 9 and customers. the use and handling of this information is regulated by evolving and increasingly demanding laws and regulations in various jurisdictions, as well as by certain third-party contracts. if our security and information systems are compromised as a result of data corruption or loss, cyber-attack or a network security incident or if our employees, franchisees or vendors fail to comply with these laws and regulations and this information is obtained by unauthorized persons or used inappropriately, it could result in liabilities and penalties and could damage our reputation, cause us to incur substantial costs and result in a loss of customer confidence, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. additionally, we could be subject to litigation and government enforcement actions as a result of any such failure. further, data privacy is subject to frequently changing rules and regulations, which sometimes conflict among the various jurisdictions and countries where we, our concepts and our concepts' franchisees do business. for example, the european union adopted a new regulation that becomes effective in may 2018, the general data protection regulation ("gdpr"), which requires companies to meet new requirements regarding the handling of personal data. our failure to adhere to or successfully implement appropriate processes to adhere to the requirements of gdpr and other laws and regulations in this area could result in financial penalties, legal liability and could damage our and our concepts' brands' reputations. there are risks associated with our increasing dependence on digital commerce platforms to maintain and grow sales. in addition, aspects of our information technology systems may experience disruptions, which could harm our ability to compete and conduct our business. customers are increasingly using e-commerce websites and apps, both domestically and internationally, like pizzahut.com, pizza hut, kfc and taco bell apps, as well as apps owned by third-party delivery aggregators such as grubhub and third-party mobile payment processors, to order and pay for our concepts' products. as a result, our concepts and our concepts' franchisees are increasingly reliant on digital ordering and payment as a sales channel. these digital ordering and payment platforms could be damaged or interrupted by power loss, technological failures, user errors, cyber-attacks, other forms of sabotage or acts of god. in particular, pizza hut relies on digital orders for a significant portion of its sales and could experience interruptions of its digital ordering platforms, which could limit or delay customers' ability to order through such platforms. any such limitation or delay would negatively impact pizza hut's sales and customer experience and perception. in addition, if pizza hut's digital ordering platforms do not meet customers' expectations in terms of security, speed, attractiveness, or ease of use, customers may be less inclined to return to such digital ordering platforms, which could negatively impact our sales, results of operations and financial condition. in addition, yum china, our largest franchisee, relies heavily on third-party mobile payment apps such as alipay and wechat as a means through which to generate sales and process payments. should customers become unable to access mobile payment apps in china, or should the relationship between yum china and one or more third-party mobile payment processors become interrupted, our results of operations could be negatively impacted. our inability or failure to recognize, respond to and effectively manage the accelerated impact of social media could adversely impact our business. in recent years, there has been a marked increase in the use of social media platforms, including blogs, chat platforms, social media websites, and other forms of internet-based communications which allow individuals access to a broad audience of consumers and other interested persons. the rising popularity of social media and other consumer-oriented technologies has increased the speed and accessibility of information dissemination. many social media platforms immediately publish the content their subscribers and participants post, often without filters or checks on accuracy of the content posted. information posted on such platforms at any time may be adverse to our interests and/or may be inaccurate. the dissemination of information via social media could harm our business, reputation, financial condition, and results of operations, regardless of the information's accuracy. the damage may be immediate without affording us an opportunity for redress or correction. in addition, social media is frequently used by our concepts to communicate with their respective customers and the public in general. failure by our concepts to use social media effectively or appropriately, particularly as compared to our concepts' respective competitors, could lead to a decline in brand value, customer visits and revenue. other risks associated with the use of social media include improper disclosure of proprietary information, negative comments about our concepts' brands, exposure of personally identifiable information, fraud, hoaxes or malicious dissemination of false information. the inappropriate use of social media by our customers or employees could increase our costs, lead to litigation or result in negative publicity that could damage our reputation and adversely affect our results of operations. 10 shortages or interruptions in the availability and delivery of food and other supplies may increase costs or reduce revenues. the products sold by our concepts and their franchisees are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international suppliers. we, along with our concepts' franchisees, are also dependent upon third parties to make frequent deliveries of food products and supplies that meet our specifications at competitive prices. shortages or interruptions in the supply of food items and other supplies to our concepts' restaurants could adversely affect the availability, quality and cost of items we use and the operations of our restaurants. such shortages or disruptions could be caused by inclement weather, natural disasters, inaccurate forecasting of customer demand, problems in production or distribution, restrictions on imports or exports, the inability of vendors to obtain credit, political instability in the countries in which suppliers and distributors are located, the financial instability of suppliers and distributors, suppliers' or distributors' failure to meet our standards, product quality issues, inflation, other factors relating to the suppliers and distributors and the countries in which they are located, food safety warnings or advisories or the prospect of such pronouncements, the cancellation of supply or distribution agreements or an inability to renew such arrangements or to find replacements on commercially reasonable terms, or other conditions beyond our control or the control of our concepts' franchisees. in the u.s., the company, along with representatives of the company's kfc, pizza hut and taco bell franchisee groups, are members of restaurant supply chain solutions, llc ( rscs"), which is responsible for purchasing certain restaurant products and equipment. any failure or inability of rscs to perform its purchasing obligations could result in shortages or interruptions in the availability of food and other supplies. a shortage or interruption in the availability of certain food products or supplies could increase costs and limit the availability of products critical to restaurant operations, which in turn could lead to restaurant closures and/or a decrease in sales. in addition, failure by a key supplier or distributor for our concepts and/or our concepts' franchisees to meet its service requirements could lead to a disruption of service or supply until a new supplier or distributor is engaged, and any disruption could have an adverse effect on our business. we may not achieve our target development goals, aggressive development could cannibalize existing sales and new restaurants may not be profitable. our growth strategy depends on our and our concepts' franchisees' ability to increase our net restaurant count in markets around the world, especially in emerging markets. the successful development of new units depends in large part on the ability of our concepts' franchisees to open new restaurants and to operate these restaurants profitably. we cannot guarantee that we, or our concepts' franchisees, including yum china, will be able to achieve our expansion goals or that new restaurants will be operated profitably. further, there is no assurance that any new restaurant will produce operating results similar to those of our existing restaurants. other risks that could impact our ability to increase the number of our restaurants include prevailing economic conditions and trade or economic sanctions and our, or our concepts' franchisees', ability to obtain suitable restaurant locations, negotiate acceptable lease or purchase terms for the locations, obtain required permits and approvals in a timely manner, hire and train qualified restaurant crews and meet construction schedules. expansion into target markets could also be affected by our concepts' franchisees' ability to obtain financing to construct and open new restaurants. if it becomes more difficult or more expensive for our concepts' franchisees to obtain financing to develop new restaurants, the expected growth of our system could slow and our future revenues and operating cash flows could be adversely impacted. in addition, the development of new restaurants could impact the sales of our concepts' existing restaurants nearby. there can be no assurance that sales cannibalization will not occur or become more significant in the future as we increase our presence in existing markets. labor shortages or difficulty finding qualified employees could slow our growth, harm our business and reduce our profitability. restaurant operations are highly service-oriented and our success depends in part upon our and our concepts' franchisees' ability to attract, retain and motivate a sufficient number of qualified employees, including restaurant managers and other crew members. the market for qualified employees in our industry is very competitive. any future inability to recruit and retain qualified individuals may delay the planned openings of new restaurants by us and our concepts' franchisees and could adversely impact operation of our concepts' existing restaurants. any such delays, material increases in employee turnover rate in existing restaurants or widespread employee dissatisfaction could have a material adverse effect on our and our concepts' franchisees' business and results of operations. in addition, strikes, work slowdowns or other job actions may become more common. in the event of a strike, work slowdown or other labor unrest, the ability to adequately staff our concepts' restaurants could be impaired, which could result in reduced revenue and customer claims, and may distract our management from focusing on our business and strategic priorities. 11 changes in labor and other operating costs could adversely affect our results of operations. an increase in the costs of employee wages, benefits and insurance (including workers' compensation, general liability, property and health) as well as other operating costs such as rent and energy costs could adversely affect our operating results. such increases could result from government imposition of higher minimum wages or from general economic or competitive conditions. any increase in such operating expenses could adversely affect our and our concepts' franchisees' profit margins. in addition, competition for qualified employees could also compel us or our concepts' franchisees to pay higher wages to attract or retain key crew members, which could result in higher labor costs and decreased profitability. the standard for determining joint employer status could adversely affect our business operations and increase our liabilities resulting from actions by our concepts' franchisees. the national labor relations board's (the nlrb ) standard for determining when two or more otherwise unrelated employers may be found to be a joint employer of the same employees under the national labor relations act is uncertain and subject to change. in addition, the general counsel's office of the nlrb has issued complaints naming mcdonald's corporation as a joint employer of workers at its franchisees for alleged violations of the u.s. fair labor standards act. the nlrb's joint employer liability standard could cause us or our concepts to be liable or held responsible for unfair labor practices, violations of wage and hour laws, and other violations and could also require our concepts to conduct collective bargaining negotiations regarding employees of our concepts' franchisees. further, there is no assurance that we or our concepts will not receive similar complaints as mcdonald's corporation in the future, which could result in legal proceedings based on the actions of our concepts' franchisees. in such events, our operating expenses may increase as a result of required modifications to our business practices, increased litigation, governmental investigations or proceedings, administrative enforcement actions, fines and civil liability. an increase in food prices may have an adverse impact on our and our concepts' franchisees' profit margins. our and our concepts' franchisees' businesses depend on reliable sources of large quantities of raw materials such as proteins (including poultry, pork, beef and seafood), cheese, oil, flour and vegetables (including potatoes and lettuce). raw materials purchased for use in our concepts' restaurants are subject to price volatility caused by any fluctuation in aggregate supply and demand, or other external conditions, such as weather conditions or natural events or disasters that affect expected harvests of such raw materials. as a result, the historical prices of raw materials used in the operation of our concepts' restaurants have fluctuated. we cannot assure you that we or our concepts' franchisees will continue to be able to purchase raw materials at reasonable prices, or that the cost of raw materials will remain stable in the future. in addition, a significant increase in gasoline prices could result in the imposition of fuel surcharges by our distributors. because we and our concepts' franchisees provide competitively priced food, we may not have the ability to pass through to our customers the full amount of any commodity price increases. if we and our concepts' franchisees are unable to manage the cost of raw materials or to increase the prices of products proportionately, our and our franchisees' profit margins may be adversely impacted. our concepts' brands may be limited or diluted through franchisee and third-party activity. although we monitor and regulate franchisee activities through our concepts' franchise agreements, franchisees or other third parties may refer to or make statements about our concepts' brands that do not make proper use of our trademarks or required designations, that improperly alter trademarks or branding, or that are critical of our concepts' brands or place our concepts' brands in a context that may tarnish their reputation. this may result in dilution of, or harm to, our intellectual property or the value of our concepts' brands. franchisee noncompliance with the terms and conditions of our franchise agreements may reduce the overall goodwill of our concepts' brands, whether through the failure to meet health and safety standards, engage in quality control or maintain product consistency, or through the participation in improper or objectionable business practices. moreover, unauthorized third parties, including our concepts' current and former franchisees, may use our intellectual property to trade on the goodwill of our concepts' brands, resulting in consumer confusion or dilution. any reduction of our concepts' brands' goodwill, consumer confusion, or dilution is likely to impact sales, and could materially and adversely impact our business and results of operations. our success depends substantially on our corporate reputation and on the value and perception of our brands. our success depends in large part upon our ability and our concepts' franchisees' ability to maintain and enhance the value of our brands and our customers' loyalty to our brands. brand value is based in part on consumer perceptions on a variety of subjective 12 qualities. business incidents, whether isolated or recurring, and whether originating from us, franchisees, competitors, suppliers or distributors, can significantly reduce brand value and consumer trust, particularly if the incidents receive considerable publicity or result in litigation. for example, our concepts' brands could be damaged by claims or perceptions about the quality or safety of our products or the quality or reputation of our suppliers, distributors or franchisees, regardless of whether such claims or perceptions are true. similarly, entities in our supply chain may engage in conduct, including alleged human rights abuses or environmental wrongdoing, and any such conduct could damage our or our concepts' brands' reputations. any such incidents (even if resulting from actions of a competitor or franchisee) could cause a decline directly or indirectly in consumer confidence in, or the perception of, our concepts' brands and/or our products and reduce consumer demand for our products, which would likely result in lower revenues and profits. additionally, our corporate reputation could suffer from a real or perceived failure of corporate governance or misconduct by a company officer, or an employee or representative of us or a franchisee. we could be party to litigation that could adversely affect us by increasing our expenses, diverting management attention or subjecting us to significant monetary damages and other remedies. we are regularly involved in legal proceedings, which include consumer, employment, real estate related, tort, intellectual property, breach of contract, securities, derivative and other litigation. see the discussion of legal proceedings in note 20 to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this form 10-k. plaintiffs in these types of lawsuits often seek recovery of very large or indeterminate amounts, and the magnitude of the potential loss relating to such lawsuits may not be accurately estimated. regardless of whether any such claims have merit, or whether we are ultimately held liable or settle, such litigation may be expensive to defend and may divert resources and management attention away from our operations and negatively impact reported earnings. with respect to insured claims, a judgment for monetary damages in excess of any insurance coverage could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. any adverse publicity resulting from these allegations may also adversely affect our reputation, which in turn could adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, the restaurant industry around the world has been subject to claims that relate to the nutritional content of food products, as well as claims that the menus and practices of restaurant chains have led to customer health issues, including weight gain and other adverse effects. these concerns could lead to an increase in the regulation of the content or marketing of our products. we may also be subject to such claims in the future and, even if we are not, publicity about these matters (particularly directed at the quick service and fast-casual segments of the retail food industry) may harm our reputation and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. changes in, or noncompliance with, governmental regulations may adversely affect our business operations, growth prospects or financial condition. our concepts and their franchisees are subject to numerous laws and regulations around the world. these laws change regularly and are increasingly complex. for example, we are subject to: the americans with disabilities act in the u.s. and similar state laws that give civil rights protections to individuals with disabilities in the context of employment, public accommodations and other areas. the u.s. fair labor standards act, which governs matters such as minimum wages, overtime and other working conditions, as well as family leave mandates and a variety of similar state laws that govern these and other employment law matters. laws and regulations in government-mandated health care benefits such as the patient protection and affordable care act. laws and regulations relating to nutritional content, nutritional labeling, product safety, product marketing and menu labeling. laws relating to state and local licensing. laws relating to the relationship between franchisors and franchisees. laws and regulations relating to health, sanitation, food, workplace safety, child labor, including laws prohibiting the use of certain hazardous equipment by employees younger than the age of 18 years of age, and fire safety and prevention. laws and regulations relating to union organizing rights and activities. laws relating to information security, privacy (including the european union's gdpr, which will become effective in may 2018), cashless payments, and consumer protection. laws relating to currency conversion or exchange. laws relating to international trade and sanctions. tax laws and regulations. anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws. environmental laws and regulations. federal and state immigration laws and regulations in the u.s. 13 compliance with new or existing laws and regulations could impact our or our concepts' franchisees' operations. the compliance costs associated with these laws and regulations could be substantial. any failure or alleged failure to comply with these laws or regulations could adversely affect our reputation, international expansion efforts, growth prospects and financial results or result in, among other things, litigation, revocation of required licenses, internal investigations, governmental investigations or proceedings, administrative enforcement actions, fines and civil and criminal liability. publicity relating to any such noncompliance could also harm our reputation and adversely affect our revenues. failure to comply with anti-bribery or anti-corruption laws could adversely affect our business operations. the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, the uk bribery act and other similar applicable laws prohibiting bribery of government officials and other corrupt practices are the subject of increasing emphasis and enforcement around the world. although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to promote compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, agents or other third parties will not take actions in violation of our policies or applicable law, particularly as we expand our operations in emerging markets and elsewhere. any such violations or suspected violations could subject us to civil or criminal penalties, including substantial fines and significant investigation costs, and could also materially damage our reputation, brands, international expansion efforts and growth prospects, business and operating results. publicity relating to any noncompliance or alleged noncompliance could also harm our reputation and adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. tax matters, including changes in tax rates or laws, disagreements with taxing authorities and imposition of new taxes could impact our results of operations and financial condition. we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property, withholding and franchise taxes in both the u.s. and various foreign jurisdictions. we are also subject to ongoing and/or regular reviews, examinations and audits by the u.s. internal revenue service ( irs ) and other taxing authorities with respect to such income and non-income based taxes inside and outside of the u.s. in connection with the organisation for economic co-operation and development's base erosion and profit shifting project, companies are now required to disclose more information to tax authorities on their global operations, which may lead to greater audit scrutiny of profits earned in various countries. our accruals for tax liabilities are based on past experience, interpretations of applicable law, and judgments about potential actions by tax authorities, but because such accruals require significant judgment the ultimate resolution of any tax matters may result in payments greater than the amounts accrued. if the irs or another taxing authority disagrees with our tax positions, we could face additional tax liabilities, including interest and penalties. payment of additional amounts upon final settlement or adjudication of any disputes could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position. in addition, we are directly and indirectly affected by new tax laws and regulation and the interpretation of tax laws and regulations worldwide. changes in laws, regulation or interpretation of existing laws and regulations in the u.s. and other jurisdictions where we are subject to taxation could increase our taxes and have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. on december 22, 2017, the u.s. government enacted comprehensive federal tax legislation commonly referred to as the tax cuts and jobs act of 2017 (the tax act ) which significantly modifies the u.s. corporate income tax system. due to the timing of the enactment and the complexity involved in applying the provisions of the tax act, we have made reasonable estimates of its effects and recorded provisional amounts for the year ended december 31, 2017, consistent with applicable sec guidance. (see details of the charge we recorded upon enactment of the tax act in note 18 to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this form 10-k.) these provisional amounts include a one-time mandatory deemed repatriation tax on accumulated foreign earnings, the remeasurement of certain net deferred tax assets and liabilities and the establishment of a valuation allowance on our foreign tax credits. we are continuing to evaluate the tax act and its requirements, as well as its application to our business and its impact on our ongoing effective tax rate. the final impacts of the tax act may differ from current estimates and provisional amounts recorded, possibly materially, due to, among other things, changes in interpretations of the tax act, changes in accounting standards for income taxes or related accounting interpretations in response to the tax act, or updates or changes to estimates the company has utilized to calculate the provisional impacts. the yum china spin-off and certain related transactions could result in substantial u.s. tax liability. we received opinions of outside counsel substantially to the effect that, for u.s. federal income tax purposes, the yum china spin-off and certain related transactions qualified as generally tax-free under sections 355 and 361 of the u.s. internal revenue code. the opinions relied on various facts and assumptions, as well as certain representations as to factual matters and undertakings (including with respect to future conduct) made by yum china and us. if any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are incorrect or not satisfied, we may not be able to rely on these opinions of outside counsel. accordingly, notwithstanding receipt of the opinions of outside counsel, the conclusions reached in the tax opinions may be challenged by the 14 irs. because the opinions are not binding on the irs or the courts, there can be no assurance that the irs or the courts will not prevail in any such challenge. if, notwithstanding receipt of any opinion, the irs were to conclude that the yum china spin-off was taxable, in general, we would recognize taxable gain as if we had sold the yum china common stock in a taxable sale for its fair market value. in addition, each u.s. holder of our common stock who received shares of yum china common stock in connection with the spin-off transaction would generally be treated as having received a taxable distribution of property in an amount equal to the fair market value of the shares of yum china common stock received. that distribution would be taxable to each such u.s. stockholder as a dividend to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits. for each such u.s. stockholder, any amount that exceeded our earnings and profits would be treated first as a non-taxable return of capital to the extent of such stockholder's tax basis in our shares of common stock with any remaining amount being taxed as a capital gain. the yum china spin-off may be subject to china indirect transfer tax. in february 2015, the chinese state administration of taxation ( sat ) issued the bulletin on several issues of enterprise income tax on income arising from indirect transfers of property by non-resident enterprises ( bulletin 7 ). pursuant to bulletin 7, an indirect transfer of chinese taxable assets, including equity interests in a china resident enterprise ( chinese interests ), by a non-resident enterprise, may be recharacterized and treated as a direct transfer of chinese taxable assets, if such arrangement does not have reasonable commercial purpose and the transferor has avoided payment of chinese enterprise income tax. using general anti-tax avoidance provisions, the sat may treat an indirect transfer as a direct transfer of chinese interests if the transfer has avoided chinese tax by way of an arrangement without reasonable commercial purpose. as a result, gains derived from such indirect transfer may be subject to chinese enterprise income tax, and the transferee or other person who is obligated to pay for the transfer would be obligated to withhold the applicable taxes, currently at a rate of up to 10% of the capital gain in the case of an indirect transfer of equity interests in a china resident enterprise. we evaluated the potential applicability of bulletin 7 in connection with the separation in the form of a tax free restructuring and believe it is more likely than not that bulletin 7 does not apply. we believe that the restructuring has reasonable commercial purpose. however, there are significant uncertainties regarding what constitutes a reasonable commercial purpose, how the safe harbor provisions for group restructurings are to be interpreted and how the chinese tax authorities will ultimately view the spin-off. as a result, our position could be challenged by the chinese tax authorities resulting in a tax at a rate of 10% assessed on the difference between the fair market value and the tax basis of yum china. as our tax basis in yum china was minimal, the amount of such a tax could be significant and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our financial condition. failure to protect our service marks or other intellectual property could harm our business. we regard our yum , kfc , pizza hut and taco bell service marks, and other service marks and trademarks related to our restaurant businesses, as having significant value and being important to our marketing efforts. we rely on a combination of protections provided by contracts, copyrights, patents, trademarks, service marks and other common law rights, such as trade secret and unfair competition laws, to protect our restaurants and services from infringement. we have registered certain trademarks and service marks in the u.s. and foreign jurisdictions. however, from time to time we become aware of names and marks identical or confusingly similar to our service marks being used by other persons. although our policy is to oppose any such infringement, further or unknown unauthorized uses or other misappropriation of our trademarks or service marks could diminish the value of our brands and adversely affect our business. in addition, effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which our concepts have, or intend to open or franchise, a restaurant. there can be no assurance that these protections will be adequate, and defending or enforcing our service marks and other intellectual property could result in the expenditure of significant resources. we may also face claims of infringement that could interfere with the use of the proprietary know-how, concepts, recipes, or trade secrets used in our business. defending against such claims may be costly, and we may be prohibited from using such proprietary information in the future or forced to pay damages, royalties, or other fees for using such proprietary information, any of which could negatively affect our business, reputation, financial condition, and results of operations. 15 our business may be adversely impacted by changes in consumer discretionary spending and general economic conditions. purchases at our concepts' restaurants are discretionary for consumers and, therefore, our results of operations are susceptible to economic slowdowns and recessions. our results of operations are dependent upon discretionary spending by consumers, which may be affected by general economic conditions globally or in one or more of the markets we serve. some of the factors that impact discretionary consumer spending include unemployment rates, fluctuations in the level of disposable income, the price of gasoline, stock market performance and changes in the level of consumer confidence. these and other macroeconomic factors could have an adverse effect on our sales, profitability or development plans, which could harm our financial condition and operating results. the retail food industry in which we operate is highly competitive. the retail food industry in which we operate is highly competitive with respect to price and quality of food products, new product development, digital engagement, advertising levels and promotional initiatives, customer service, reputation, restaurant location, and attractiveness and maintenance of properties. if consumer or dietary preferences change, if our marketing efforts are unsuccessful, or if our concepts' restaurants are unable to compete successfully with other retail food outlets in new and existing markets, our business could be adversely affected. we also face growing competition as a result of convergence in grocery, convenience, deli and restaurant services, including the offering by the grocery industry of convenient meals, including pizzas and entrees with side dishes. competition from delivery aggregators and other food delivery services has also increased in recent years, particularly in urbanized areas, and is expected to continue to increase. increased competition could have an adverse effect on our sales, profitability or development plans, which could harm our financial condition and operating results. our substantial indebtedness makes us more sensitive to adverse economic conditions, may limit our ability to plan for or respond to significant changes in our business, and requires a significant amount of cash to service our debt payment obligations that we may be unable to generate or obtain. in connection with the announcement of our strategic transformation plans, we have increased our indebtedness from approximately $4 billion to approximately $10 billion. the proceeds from the debt were primarily used to return capital to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends. subject to the limits contained in the agreements governing our indebtedness, we may be able to incur additional debt from time to time, which would intensify the risks related to our high level of indebtedness. specifically, our high level of indebtedness could have important potential consequences, including, but not limited to: increasing our vulnerability to, and reducing our flexibility to plan for and respond to, adverse economic and industry conditions and changes in our business and the competitive environment; requiring the dedication of a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal of, and interest on, indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of such cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, dividends, share repurchases or other corporate purposes; increasing our vulnerability to a further downgrade of our credit rating, which could adversely affect our cost of funds, liquidity and access to capital markets; restricting us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures; placing us at a disadvantage compared to other less leveraged competitors or competitors with comparable debt at more favorable interest rates; increasing our exposure to the risk of increased interest rates insofar as current and future borrowings are subject to variable rates of interest; making it more difficult for us to repay, refinance or satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt; limiting our ability to borrow additional funds in the future and increasing the cost of any such borrowing; imposing restrictive covenants on our operations, which, if not complied with, could result in an event of default, which in turn, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of the applicable debt, and may result in the acceleration of any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies; and increasing our exposure to risks related to fluctuations in foreign currency as we earn profits in a variety of currencies around the world and our debt is denominated in u.s. dollars. there is no assurance that we will generate cash flow from operations or that future debt or equity financings will be available to us to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund other liquidity needs. if our business does not generate sufficient cash flow from operation in the amounts projected or at all, or if future borrowings are not available to us in amounts sufficient to pay our indebtedness or to fund other liquidity needs, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. as a result, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. there is no assurance that we will be 16 able to refinance any of our indebtedness on favorable terms, or at all. any inability to generate sufficient cash flow or refinance our indebtedness on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the company is exposed to financial market risks associated with interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices. in the normal course of business and in accordance with our policies, we manage these risks through a variety of strategies, which may include the use of financial and commodity derivative instruments to hedge our underlying exposures. our policies prohibit the use of derivative instruments for trading purposes, and we have processes in place to monitor and control their use. 47 interest rate risk we have a market risk exposure to changes in interest rates, principally in the u.s. our outstanding long-term debt of $9.8 billion includes 75% fixed-rate debt and 25% variable-rate debt. we have attempted to minimize the interest rate risk related to $1.55 billion of this variable-rate debt through the use of interest rate swaps. as a result, approximately 90% of our $9.8 billion of outstanding debt at december 31, 2017 is effectively fixed-rate debt. see note 11 for details on these issuances and repayments and note 13 for details related to interest rate swaps. as of december 31, 2017 and december 31, 2016 a hypothetical 100 basis-point increase in short-term interest rates would result, over the following twelve-month period after consideration of the aforementioned interest rate swaps, in an increase of approximately $9 million and $10 million, respectively, in interest expense, net within our consolidated statements of income. these estimated amounts are based upon the current level of variable-rate debt that has not been swapped to fixed and assume no changes in the volume or composition of that debt and exclude any impact from interest income related to cash and cash equivalents. the fair value of our cumulative fixed-rate debt of $7.3 billion as of december 31, 2017, would decrease approximately $400 million as a result of the same hypothetical 100 basis-point increase. at december 31, 2017, a hypothetical 100 basis-point decrease in short-term interest rates would decrease the fair value of our interest rate swaps approximately $50 million. fair value was determined based on the present value of expected future cash flows considering the risks involved and using discount rates appropriate for the durations. foreign currency exchange rate risk changes in foreign currency exchange rates impact the translation of our reported foreign currency denominated earnings, cash flows and net investments in foreign operations and the fair value of our foreign currency denominated financial instruments. historically, we have chosen not to hedge foreign currency risks related to our foreign currency denominated earnings and cash flows through the use of financial instruments. we attempt to minimize the exposure related to our net investments in foreign operations by financing those investments with local currency denominated debt when practical. in addition, we attempt to minimize the exposure related to foreign currency denominated financial instruments by purchasing goods and services from third parties in local currencies when practical. consequently, foreign currency denominated financial instruments consist primarily of intercompany receivables and payables. at times, we utilize forward contracts and cross-currency swaps to reduce our exposure related to these intercompany receivables and payables. the notional amount and maturity dates of these contracts match those of the underlying receivables or payables such that our foreign currency exchange risk related to these instruments is minimized. the company's foreign currency net asset exposure (defined as foreign currency assets less foreign currency liabilities) totaled approximately $2.0 billion as of december 31, 2017 . operating in international markets exposes the company to movements in foreign currency exchange rates. the company's primary exposures result from our operations in asia-pacific, europe and the americas. for the fiscal year ended december 31, 2017 operating profit would have decreased approximately $180 million if all foreign currencies had uniformly weakened 10% relative to the u.s. dollar. this estimated reduction assumes no changes in sales volumes or local currency sales or input prices. commodity price risk we are subject to volatility in food costs as a result of market risk associated with commodity prices. our ability to recover increased costs through higher pricing is, at times, limited by the competitive environment in which we operate. we manage our exposure to this risk primarily through pricing agreements with our vendors. 48risk factors. you should carefully review the risks described below as they identify important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our forward-looking statements and historical trends. food safety and food-borne illness concerns may have an adverse effect on our business. food-borne illnesses, such as e. coli, listeria, salmonella and trichinosis, occur or may occur within our system from time to time. in addition, food safety issues such as food tampering, contamination and adulteration occur or may occur within our system from time to time. any report or publicity linking us or one of our concepts' restaurants, including restaurants operated by us or our concepts' franchisees, or linking our competitors or the retail food industry generally, to instances of food-borne illness or food safety issues could adversely affect our concepts' brands and reputations as well as our revenues and profits, and possibly lead to product liability claims, litigation and damages. if a customer of one of our concepts becomes ill from food borne illnesses or as a result of food safety issues, restaurants in our system may be temporarily closed, which could disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, instances or allegations of food-borne illness or food safety issues, real or perceived, involving our restaurants, restaurants of competitors, or suppliers or distributors (regardless of whether we use or have used those suppliers or distributors), or otherwise involving the types of food served at our restaurants, could result in negative publicity that could adversely affect our sales or the sales of our concepts' franchisees. the occurrence of food-borne illnesses or food safety issues could also adversely affect the price and availability of affected ingredients, which could result in disruptions in our supply chain and/or lower margins for us and our concepts' franchisees. health concerns arising from outbreaks of viruses or other diseases may have an adverse effect on our business. our business could be materially and adversely affected by the outbreak of a widespread health epidemic, including various strains of avian flu or swine flu, such as h1n1. the occurrence of such an outbreak of an epidemic, illness or other adverse public health developments could materially disrupt our business and operations. such events could also significantly impact our industry and cause a temporary closure of restaurants, which could severely disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our operations could be disrupted if any of our employees or employees of our business partners were suspected of having the avian flu or swine flu, or other illnesses such as hepatitis a or norovirus, since this could require us or our business partners to quarantine some or all of such employees or disinfect our restaurant facilities. outbreaks of avian flu occur from time to time around the world, and such outbreaks have resulted in confirmed human cases. it is possible that outbreaks could reach pandemic levels. public concern over avian flu generally may cause fear about the consumption of chicken, eggs and other products derived from poultry, which could cause customers to consume less poultry and related products. because poultry is a menu offering for our concepts, this would likely result in lower revenues and profits for us and our concepts' franchisees. avian flu outbreaks could also adversely affect the price and availability of poultry, which could negatively impact profit margins and revenues for us and our concepts' franchisees. 7 furthermore, other viruses may be transmitted through human contact, and the risk of contracting viruses could cause employees or guests to avoid gathering in public places, which could adversely affect restaurant guest traffic or the ability to adequately staff restaurants. we could also be adversely affected if government authorities impose mandatory closures, seek voluntary closures, impose restrictions on operations of restaurants, or restrict the import or export of products, or if suppliers issue mass recalls of products. even if such measures are not implemented and a virus or other disease does not spread significantly, the perceived risk of infection or health risk may affect our business. our operating results and growth strategies are closely and increasingly tied to the success of our concepts' franchisees. a significant and growing portion of our restaurants are operated by our concepts' franchisees. at the end of 2018, over 98% of our stores are operated by franchisees. our refranchising efforts have increased our dependence on the financial success and cooperation of our concepts' franchisees. in addition, our long-term system sales growth targets depend on an acceleration of our historical net system unit growth rate. nearly all of this unit growth is expected to result from new unit openings by our concepts' franchisees. if our concepts' franchisees do not meet our expectations for new unit development, we may fall short of our system sales targets. we have limited control over how our concepts' franchisees' businesses are run, and their inability to operate successfully could adversely affect our operating results through decreased royalty payments. if our concepts' franchisees fail to adequately capitalize their businesses or incur too much debt, if their operating expenses or commodity prices increase or if economic or sales trends deteriorate such that they are unable to operate profitably or repay existing debt, it could result in their financial distress, including insolvency or bankruptcy. if a significant franchisee of one of our concepts becomes, or a significant number of our concepts' franchisees in the aggregate become, financially distressed, our operating results could be impacted through reduced or delayed royalty payments and reduced new unit development. in addition, we are secondarily liable on certain of our concepts' franchisees' lease agreements, including lease agreements that we have guaranteed or assigned to franchisees in connection with the refranchising of certain company-owned restaurants. our operating results could be impacted by any increased rent obligations for such leased properties to the extent our concepts' franchisees default on such lease agreements. our success also depends on the willingness and ability of our concepts' franchisees to implement major initiatives such as restaurant remodels or equipment or technology upgrades, which may require financial investment. our concepts may be unable to successfully implement strategies that we believe are necessary for further growth if their franchisees do not participate, which in turn may harm the growth prospects and financial condition of the company. additionally, the failure of our concepts' franchisees to focus on the fundamentals of restaurant operations, such as quality, service and cleanliness (even if such failures do not rise to the level of breaching the related franchise documents), could have a negative impact on our business. we may not achieve our target development goals, aggressive development could cannibalize existing sales and new restaurants may not be profitable. our growth strategy depends on our and our concepts' franchisees' ability to increase net restaurant count in markets around the world. the successful development of new units depends in large part on the ability of our concepts' franchisees to open new restaurants and to operate these restaurants profitably. we cannot guarantee that we, or our concepts' franchisees, including yum china, will be able to achieve our expansion goals or that new restaurants will be operated profitably. further, there is no assurance that any new restaurant will produce operating results similar to those of our existing restaurants. other risks that could impact our ability to increase the number of our restaurants include prevailing economic conditions and trade or economic sanctions and our, or our concepts' franchisees', ability to obtain suitable restaurant locations, negotiate acceptable lease or purchase terms for the locations, obtain required permits and approvals in a timely manner, hire and train qualified management teams and restaurant crews, and meet construction schedules. expansion into target markets could also be affected by our concepts' franchisees' willingness to invest capital or ability to obtain financing to construct and open new restaurants. if it becomes more difficult or more expensive for our concepts' franchisees to obtain financing to develop new restaurants, or if the perceived return on invested capital is not sufficiently attractive, the expected growth of our system could slow and our future revenues and operating cash flows could be adversely impacted. in addition, the development of new restaurants could impact the sales of our concepts' existing restaurants nearby. there can be no assurance that sales cannibalization will not occur or become more significant in the future as we increase our presence in existing markets. 8 we may not successfully implement our transformation initiatives or fully realize the anticipated benefits from the transformation. we are in the process of implementing our previously announced strategic transformation plans to drive global expansion of our kfc, pizza hut and taco bell brands. following our becoming 98% franchised as of the end of 2018, the remaining components of this transformation include, among other things, a plan to significantly reduce annual capital expenditures and our general and administrative costs by the end of 2019. we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully implement our transformation initiatives. further, our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of this transformation, including the anticipated levels of cost savings and efficiency, within expected timeframes is subject to many estimates and assumptions, which are, in turn, subject to significant economic, competitive and other uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. there is no assurance that we will successfully implement, or fully realize the anticipated positive impact of, our transformation initiatives, or execute successfully on our transformation strategy, in the expected timeframes or at all. in addition, there can be no assurance that our efforts, if properly executed, will result in our desired outcome of improved financial performance. we have significant exposure to the chinese market through our largest franchisee, yum china, which subjects us to risks that could negatively affect our business. in connection with the spin-off of our china business in 2016, we entered into a master license agreement with yum china pursuant to which yum china is the exclusive licensee of the kfc, pizza hut and taco bell concepts and their related marks and other intellectual property rights for restaurant services in china. following the separation, yum china became, and continues to be, our largest franchisee. as a result, our overall financial results are significantly affected by yum china's results. yum china's business is exposed to risks in china, which include, among others, changes in economic conditions (including consumer spending, unemployment levels and wage and commodity inflation), consumer preferences, the regulatory environment, and tax laws and regulations including the tax treatment of the royalty paid to yum, as well as increased media scrutiny of our concepts and industry, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, increased restrictions or tariffs on imported supplies as a result of trade disputes and increased competition. further, any significant or prolonged deterioration in u.s.-china relations could adversely affect our concepts in china if chinese consumers reduce the frequency of their visits to yum china's restaurants. chinese law regulates yum china's business conducted within china. our royalty income from the yum china business is therefore subject to numerous uncertainties based on the policies of the chinese government, as they may change from time to time. if yum china's business is harmed or development of our concepts' restaurants is slowed in china due to any of these factors, it could negatively impact the royalty paid by yum china to us, which would negatively impact our financial results or our growth prospects. our relationship with yum china is governed primarily by a master license agreement, which may be terminated upon the occurrence of certain events, such as the insolvency or bankruptcy of yum china. in addition, if we are unable to enforce our intellectual property or contract rights in china, if yum china is unable or unwilling to satisfy its obligations under the master license agreement, or if the master license agreement is otherwise terminated, it could result in an interruption in the operation of our brands that have been exclusively licensed to yum china for use in china. such interruption could cause a delay in, or loss of, royalty income to us, which would negatively impact our financial results. our international operations subject us to risks that could negatively affect our business. a significant portion of our concepts' restaurants are operated in countries and territories outside of the u.s., including in emerging markets, and we intend to continue expansion of our international operations. as a result, our business and the businesses of our concepts' franchisees are increasingly exposed to risks inherent in international operations. these risks, which can vary substantially by country, include political instability, corruption, anti-american sentiment and social and ethnic unrest, as well as changes in economic conditions (including consumer spending, unemployment levels and wage and commodity inflation), the regulatory environment, income and non-income based tax rates and laws, sanctions, foreign exchange control regimes including restrictions on currency conversion, consumer preferences and the laws and policies that govern foreign investment in countries where our concepts' restaurants are operated. in addition, we and our franchisees do business in jurisdictions that may be subject to trade or economic sanction regimes and such sanctions could be expanded. any failure to comply with such sanction regimes or other similar laws or regulations could result in the assessment of damages, the imposition of penalties, suspension of business licenses, or a cessation of operations at our or our franchisees' businesses, as well as damage to our and our concepts' brands' images and reputations, all of which could harm our profitability. foreign currency risks and foreign exchange controls could adversely affect our financial results. our results of operations and the value of our foreign assets are affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which may adversely affect reported earnings. more specifically, an increase in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to other currencies, such as the chinese renminbi ( rmb ), australian dollar, the british pound and the euro, as well as currencies in certain other markets, such as the malaysian ringgit and russian ruble, could have an adverse effect on our reported earnings. there can be no assurance 9 as to the future effect of any such changes on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. in addition, the governments in certain countries where we operate, including china, restrict the conversion of local currency into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of the country. yum china's income is almost exclusively derived from the earnings of its chinese subsidiaries, with substantially all revenues of its chinese subsidiaries denominated in rmb. any significant fluctuation in the value of the rmb could materially impact the u.s. dollar value of royalty payments made to us by yum china, which could result in lower revenues. in addition, restrictions on the conversion of rmb to u.s. dollars or further restrictions on the remittance of currency out of china could result in delays in the remittance of yum china's license fee, which could impact our liquidity. failure to protect the integrity and security of personal information of our customers and employees could result in substantial costs, expose us to litigation and damage our reputation. we receive and maintain certain personal, financial and other information about our customers, employees and franchisees. in addition, our vendors and/or franchisees receive and maintain certain personal, financial and other information about our employees and customers. the use and handling of this information is regulated by evolving and increasingly demanding laws and regulations in various jurisdictions, as well as by certain third-party contracts. if our security and information systems are compromised as a result of data corruption or loss, cyber-attack or a network security incident or if our employees, franchisees or vendors fail to comply with these laws and regulations and this information is obtained by unauthorized persons or used inappropriately, it could result in liabilities and penalties and could damage our reputation, cause us to incur substantial costs and result in a loss of customer confidence, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. additionally, we could be subject to litigation and government enforcement actions as a result of any such failure. further, data privacy is subject to frequently changing rules and regulations, which sometimes conflict among the various jurisdictions and countries where we, our concepts and our concepts' franchisees do business. for example, the european union adopted a new regulation that became effective in may 2018, the general data protection regulation ("gdpr"), which requires companies to meet new requirements regarding the handling of personal data. in addition, in june 2018 the state of california enacted the california consumer privacy act (the ccpa ), which will become effective in 2020, requiring companies that process information on california residents to, among other things, make new disclosures to consumers about data collection, use and sharing practices. our failure to adhere to or successfully implement appropriate processes to adhere to the requirements of gdpr, ccpa and other evolving laws and regulations in this area could result in financial penalties, legal liability and could damage our and our concepts' brands' reputations. unreliable or inefficient restaurant or consumer interfacing technology or the failure to successfully implement technology initiatives in the future could adversely impact operating results. we and our concepts' franchisees' rely heavily on information technology systems in the conduct of our business, some of which are managed, hosted, provided and/or used by third parties, including, for example, point-of-sale processing in our restaurants, management of our supply chain and various other processes and procedures. these systems are subject to damage, interruption or failure due to theft, fire, power outages, telecommunications failure, computer viruses, security breaches, malicious cyber-attacks or other catastrophic events. certain technology systems may also be unreliable or inefficient, and technology vendors may limit or terminate product support and maintenance, which could impact the reliability of critical systems operations. if our or our concepts' franchisees' information technology systems are damaged or fail to function properly, we may incur substantial costs to repair or replace them, and may experience loss of critical data and interruptions or delays in our ability to manage inventories or process transactions, which could result in lost sales, customer or employee dissatisfaction, or negative publicity that could negatively impact our reputation, results of operations and financial condition. we and our concepts' franchisees rely on technology not only to efficiently operate our restaurants but also to drive the customer experience, sales growth and margin improvement. execution of our growth strategy will be dependent on our initiatives to implement technology solutions and gather and leverage data to enhance restaurant operations and improve the customer experience. our strategic technology initiatives may not be timely implemented or may not achieve the desired results. even if we effectively implement and manage our technology initiatives, they may not result in sales growth or margin improvement. additionally, implementing the evolving technology demands of the consumer may place a significant financial burden on us and our concepts' franchisees. 10 there are risks associated with our increasing dependence on digital commerce platforms to maintain and grow sales. such platforms may experience disruptions, which could harm our ability to compete and conduct our business. customers are increasingly using e-commerce websites and apps, both domestically and internationally, like pizzahut.com, pizza hut, kfc and taco bell apps, as well as apps owned by third-party delivery aggregators such as grubhub and third-party mobile payment processors, to order and pay for our concepts' products. as a result, our concepts and our concepts' franchisees are increasingly reliant on digital ordering and payment as a sales channel. these digital ordering and payment platforms could be damaged or interrupted by power loss, technological failures, user errors, cyber-attacks, other forms of sabotage or acts of god. in particular, pizza hut relies on digital orders for a significant portion of its sales and could experience interruptions of its digital ordering platforms, which could limit or delay customers' ability to order through such platforms. any such limitation or delay would negatively impact pizza hut's sales and customer experience and perception. in addition, if pizza hut's digital ordering platforms do not meet customers' expectations in terms of security, speed, attractiveness, or ease of use, customers may be less inclined to return to such digital ordering platforms, which could negatively impact our sales, results of operations and financial condition. yum china, our largest franchisee, utilizes third-party mobile payment apps such as alipay and wechat as a means through which to generate sales and process payments. should customers become unable to access mobile payment apps in china, or should the relationship between yum china and one or more third-party mobile payment processors become interrupted, our results of operations could be negatively impacted. our inability or failure to recognize, respond to and effectively manage the accelerated impact of social media could adversely impact our business. in recent years, there has been a marked increase in the use of social media platforms, including blogs, chat platforms, social media websites, and other forms of internet-based communications which allow individuals access to a broad audience of consumers and other interested persons. the rising popularity of social media and other consumer-oriented technologies has increased the speed and accessibility of information dissemination. many social media platforms immediately publish the content their subscribers and participants post, often without filters or checks on accuracy of the content posted. information posted on such platforms at any time may be adverse to our interests and/or may be inaccurate. the dissemination of information online could harm our business, reputation, financial condition, and results of operations, regardless of the information's accuracy. the damage may be immediate without affording us an opportunity for redress or correction. in addition, social media is frequently used by our concepts to communicate with their respective customers and the public in general. failure by our concepts to use social media effectively or appropriately, particularly as compared to our concepts' respective competitors, could lead to a decline in brand value, customer visits and revenue. other risks associated with the use of social media include improper disclosure of proprietary information, negative comments about our concepts' brands, exposure of personally identifiable information, fraud, hoaxes or malicious dissemination of false information. the inappropriate use of social media by our customers or employees could increase our costs, lead to litigation or result in negative publicity that could damage our reputation and adversely affect our results of operations. shortages or interruptions in the availability and delivery of food and other supplies may increase costs or reduce revenues. the products sold by our concepts and their franchisees are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international suppliers. we, along with our concepts' franchisees, are also dependent upon third parties to make frequent deliveries of food products and supplies that meet our specifications at competitive prices. shortages or interruptions in the supply of food items and other supplies to our concepts' restaurants could adversely affect the availability, quality and cost of items we use and the operations of our restaurants. in february 2018, we and our franchisees transitioned to a new distributor for the products supplied to our approximately 900 kfcs in the united kingdom and ireland. in connection with this transition, certain of the restaurants experienced supply availability issues which resulted in store closures or stores operating under a limited menu for a period of time. future, similar shortages or disruptions could be caused by inclement weather, natural disasters, inaccurate forecasting of customer demand, problems in production or distribution, restrictions on imports or exports including due to trade disputes, the inability of vendors to obtain credit, political instability in the countries in which the suppliers and distributors are located, the financial instability of suppliers and distributors, suppliers' or distributors' failure to meet our standards or requirements, product quality issues, inflation, other factors relating to the suppliers and distributors and the countries in which they are located, food safety warnings or advisories or the prospect of such pronouncements, product recalls, the cancellation of supply or distribution agreements or an inability to renew such arrangements or to find replacements on commercially reasonable terms, or other conditions beyond our control or the control of our concepts' franchisees. the pending withdrawal of the united kingdom from the european union, particularly if such withdrawal occurs without a transition agreement in effect, may result in the reimposition of customs and border controls, which in turn may result in shortages or interruptions in supply to our concepts in the united kingdom with 11 consequences similar to those described above. in the u.s., the company, along with representatives of the company's kfc, pizza hut and taco bell franchisee groups, are members of restaurant supply chain solutions, llc ( rscs"), which is responsible for purchasing certain restaurant products and equipment. any failure or inability of rscs to perform its purchasing obligations could result in shortages or interruptions in the availability of food and other supplies. a shortage or interruption in the availability of certain food products or supplies could increase costs and limit the availability of products critical to restaurant operations, which in turn could lead to restaurant closures and/or a decrease in sales. in addition, failure by a key supplier or distributor for our concepts and/or our concepts' franchisees to meet its service requirements could lead to a disruption of service or supply until a new supplier or distributor is engaged, and any disruption could have an adverse effect on our business. labor shortages or difficulty finding qualified employees could slow our growth, harm our business and reduce our profitability. restaurant operations are highly service-oriented and our success depends in part upon our and our concepts' franchisees' ability to attract, retain and motivate a sufficient number of qualified employees, including franchisee management, restaurant managers and other crew members. the market for qualified employees in the retail food industry is very competitive. any future inability to recruit and retain qualified individuals may delay the planned openings of new restaurants by us and our concepts' franchisees and could adversely impact operation of our concepts' existing restaurants. any such delays, material increases in employee turnover rate in franchisee management or existing restaurants or widespread employee dissatisfaction could have a material adverse effect on our and our concepts' franchisees' business and results of operations. in addition, strikes, work slowdowns or other job actions may become more common. in the event of a strike, work slowdown or other labor unrest, the ability to adequately staff our concepts' restaurants could be impaired, which could result in reduced revenue and customer claims, and may distract our management from focusing on our business and strategic priorities. changes in labor and other operating costs could adversely affect our results of operations. an increase in the costs of employee wages, benefits and insurance (including workers' compensation, general liability, property and health) as well as other operating costs such as rent and energy costs could adversely affect our operating results. such increases could result from government imposition of higher minimum wages or from general economic or competitive conditions. any increase in such operating expenses could adversely affect our and our concepts' franchisees' profit margins. in addition, competition for qualified employees could also compel us or our concepts' franchisees to pay higher wages to attract or retain key crew members, which could result in higher labor costs and decreased profitability. a broader standard for determining joint employer status may adversely affect our business operations and increase our liabilities. the national labor relations board (the nlrb ) in 2014 adopted a new and broader standard for determining when two or more otherwise unrelated employers may be found to be a joint employer of the same employees under the national labor relations act. if this joint employer liability standard is upheld or adopted by other government agencies and/or applied generally to franchise relationships under other laws like the u.s. fair labor standards act, it could cause us or our concepts to be liable or held responsible for unfair labor practices and other violations and could subject our concepts to other liabilities, and/or require our concepts to conduct collective bargaining negotiations, regarding employees of totally separate, independent employers, most notably our concepts' franchisees. in such event, our operating expenses may increase as a result of required modifications to our business practices, increased litigation, governmental investigations or proceedings, administrative enforcement actions, fines and civil liability. an increase in food prices may have an adverse impact on our and our concepts' franchisees' profit margins. our and our concepts' franchisees' businesses depend on reliable sources of large quantities of raw materials such as proteins (including poultry, pork, beef and seafood), cheese, oil, flour and vegetables (including potatoes and lettuce). raw materials purchased for use in our concepts' restaurants are subject to price volatility caused by any fluctuation in aggregate supply and demand, or other external conditions, such as weather conditions or natural events or disasters that affect expected harvests of such raw materials, or taxes and tariffs including as a result of trade disputes. as a result, the historical prices of raw materials used in the operation of our concepts' restaurants have fluctuated. we cannot assure you that we or our concepts' franchisees will continue to be able to purchase raw materials at reasonable prices, or that the cost of raw materials will remain stable in the future. in addition, a significant increase in gasoline prices could result in the imposition of fuel surcharges by our distributors. because we and our concepts' franchisees provide competitively priced food, we may not have the ability to pass through to our customers the full amount of any commodity price increases. if we and our concepts' franchisees are unable to manage the cost 12 of raw materials or to increase the prices of products proportionately, our and our franchisees' profit margins may be adversely impacted. our concepts' brands may be harmed or diluted through franchisee and third-party activity. although we monitor and regulate franchisee activities through our concepts' franchise agreements, franchisees or other third parties may refer to or make statements about our concepts' brands that do not make proper use of our trademarks or required designations, that improperly alter trademarks or branding, or that are critical of our concepts' brands or place our concepts' brands in a context that may tarnish their reputation. this may result in dilution of, or harm to, our intellectual property or the value of our concepts' brands. franchisee noncompliance with the terms and conditions of our franchise agreements may reduce the overall goodwill of our concepts' brands, whether through the failure to meet health and safety standards, engage in quality control or maintain product consistency, or through the participation in improper or objectionable business practices. moreover, unauthorized third parties, including our concepts' current and former franchisees, may use our intellectual property to trade on the goodwill of our concepts' brands, resulting in consumer confusion or brand dilution. any reduction of our concepts' brands' goodwill, consumer confusion, or brand dilution is likely to impact sales, and could materially and adversely impact our business and results of operations. our success depends substantially on our corporate reputation and on the value and perception of our brands. our success depends in large part upon our ability and our concepts' franchisees' ability to maintain and enhance the value of our brands and our customers' loyalty to our brands. brand value is based in part on consumer perceptions on a variety of subjective qualities. business incidents, whether isolated or recurring, and whether originating from us, franchisees, competitors, governments, suppliers or distributors, can significantly reduce brand value and consumer trust, particularly if the incidents receive considerable publicity or result in litigation. for example, our concepts' brands could be damaged by claims or perceptions about the quality or safety of our products or the quality or reputation of our suppliers, distributors or franchisees, regardless of whether such claims or perceptions are true. similarly, entities in our supply chain may engage in conduct, including alleged human rights abuses or environmental wrongdoing, and any such conduct could damage our or our concepts' brands' reputations. any such incidents (even if resulting from actions of a competitor or franchisee) could cause a decline directly or indirectly in consumer confidence in, or the perception of, our concepts' brands and/or our products and reduce consumer demand for our products, which would likely result in lower revenues and profits. additionally, our corporate reputation could suffer from a real or perceived failure of corporate governance or misconduct by a company officer, or an employee or representative of us or a franchisee. we could be party to litigation that could adversely affect us by increasing our expenses, diverting management attention or subjecting us to significant monetary damages and other remedies. we are regularly involved in legal proceedings, which include consumer, employment, real estate related, tort, intellectual property, breach of contract, securities, derivative and other litigation. see the discussion of legal proceedings in note 19 to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this form 10-k. plaintiffs in these types of lawsuits often seek recovery of very large or indeterminate amounts, and the magnitude of the potential loss relating to such lawsuits may not be accurately estimated. regardless of whether any such claims have merit, or whether we are ultimately held liable or settle, such litigation may be expensive to defend and may divert resources and management attention away from our operations and negatively impact reported earnings. with respect to insured claims, a judgment for monetary damages in excess of any insurance coverage could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. any adverse publicity resulting from these allegations may also adversely affect our concepts' reputations, which in turn could adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, the restaurant industry around the world has been subject to claims that relate to the nutritional content of food products, as well as claims that the menus and practices of restaurant chains have led to customer health issues, including weight gain and other adverse effects. these concerns could lead to an increase in the regulation of the content or marketing of our products. we may also be subject to such claims in the future and, even if we are not, publicity about these matters (particularly directed at the quick service and fast-casual segments of the retail food industry) may harm our concepts' reputations and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 13 changes in, or noncompliance with, governmental regulations may adversely affect our business operations, growth prospects or financial condition. our concepts and their franchisees are subject to numerous laws and regulations around the world. these laws change regularly and are increasingly complex. for example, we are subject to: the americans with disabilities act in the u.s. and similar state laws that give civil rights protections to individuals with disabilities in the context of employment, public accommodations and other areas. the u.s. fair labor standards act, which governs matters such as minimum wages, overtime and other working conditions, as well as family leave mandates and a variety of similar state laws that govern these and other employment law matters. laws and regulations in government-mandated health care benefits such as the patient protection and affordable care act in the u.s. laws and regulations relating to nutritional content, nutritional labeling, product safety, product marketing and menu labeling. laws relating to state and local licensing. laws relating to the relationship between franchisors and franchisees. laws and regulations relating to health, sanitation, food, workplace safety, child labor, including laws regulating the use of certain hazardous equipment , and fire safety and prevention. laws and regulations relating to union organizing rights and activities. laws relating to information security, privacy (including the european union's gdpr), cashless payments, and consumer protection. laws relating to currency conversion or exchange. laws relating to international trade and sanctions. tax laws and regulations. anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws. environmental laws and regulations. federal and state immigration laws and regulations in the u.s. compliance with new or existing laws and regulations could impact our or our concepts' franchisees' operations. the compliance costs associated with these laws and regulations could be substantial. any failure or alleged failure to comply with these laws or regulations could adversely affect our reputation, international expansion efforts, growth prospects and financial results or result in, among other things, litigation, revocation of required licenses, internal investigations, governmental investigations or proceedings, administrative enforcement actions, fines and civil and criminal liability. publicity relating to any such noncompliance could also harm our concepts' reputations and adversely affect our revenues. failure to comply with anti-bribery or anti-corruption laws could adversely affect our business operations. the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, the uk bribery act and other similar applicable laws prohibiting bribery of government officials and other corrupt practices are the subject of increasing emphasis and enforcement around the world. there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, agents or other third parties will not take actions in violation of our policies or applicable law, particularly as we expand our operations in emerging markets and elsewhere. any such violations or suspected violations could subject us to civil or criminal penalties, including substantial fines and significant investigation costs, and could also materially damage our reputation, brands, international expansion efforts and growth prospects, business and operating results. publicity relating to any noncompliance or alleged noncompliance could also harm our concepts' reputations and adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. tax matters, including changes in tax rates or laws, disagreements with taxing authorities and imposition of new taxes could impact our results of operations and financial condition. we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property, withholding and franchise taxes in both the u.s. and various foreign jurisdictions. we are also subject to ongoing and/or regular reviews, examinations and audits by the u.s. internal revenue service ( irs ) and other taxing authorities with respect to such income and non-income based taxes inside and outside of the u.s. our accruals for tax liabilities are based on past experience, interpretations of applicable law, and judgments about potential actions by tax authorities, but such accruals require significant judgment which may be incorrect and may result in payments greater than the amounts accrued. if the irs or another taxing authority disagrees with our tax positions, we could face additional tax liabilities, including interest and penalties. payment of additional amounts upon final settlement or adjudication of any disputes could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position. 14 in addition, we are directly and indirectly affected by new tax laws and regulation and the interpretation of tax laws and regulations worldwide. changes in laws, regulation or interpretation of existing laws and regulations in the u.s. and other jurisdictions where we are subject to taxation could increase our taxes and have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. changes in tax laws may arise as a result of guidance issued by the organisation for economic co-operation and development ( oecd ), a coalition of member nations including the united states. the oecd guidance, referred to as the base erosion and profit shifting ( beps ) action plan, does not have the force of law, but certain countries may enact tax legislation, modify tax treaties, and/or increase audit scrutiny based on the beps guidance. to the extent beps principles are adopted by major jurisdictions in which we operate, it could increase our taxes and have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial position. in addition, public perception that we are not paying a sufficient amount of taxes could damage our concepts' reputations, which could harm our profitability. the yum china spin-off and certain related transactions could result in substantial u.s. tax liability. we received opinions of outside counsel substantially to the effect that, for u.s. federal income tax purposes, the yum china spin-off and certain related transactions qualified as generally tax-free under sections 355 and 361 of the u.s. internal revenue code. the opinions relied on various facts and assumptions, as well as certain representations as to factual matters and undertakings (including with respect to future conduct) made by yum china and us. if any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are incorrect or not satisfied, we may not be able to rely on these opinions of outside counsel. accordingly, notwithstanding receipt of the opinions of outside counsel, the conclusions reached in the tax opinions may be challenged by the irs. because the opinions are not binding on the irs or the courts, there can be no assurance that the irs or the courts will not prevail in any such challenge. if, notwithstanding receipt of any opinion, the irs were to conclude that the yum china spin-off was taxable, in general, we would recognize taxable gain as if we had sold the yum china common stock in a taxable sale for its fair market value. in addition, each u.s. holder of our common stock who received shares of yum china common stock in connection with the spin-off transaction would generally be treated as having received a taxable distribution of property in an amount equal to the fair market value of the shares of yum china common stock received. that distribution would be taxable to each such u.s. stockholder as a dividend to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits. for each such u.s. stockholder, any amount that exceeded our earnings and profits would be treated first as a non-taxable return of capital to the extent of such stockholder's tax basis in our shares of common stock with any remaining amount being taxed as a capital gain. the yum china spin-off may be subject to china indirect transfer tax. in february 2015, the chinese state administration of taxation ( sat ) issued the bulletin on several issues of enterprise income tax on income arising from indirect transfers of property by non-resident enterprises ( bulletin 7 ). pursuant to bulletin 7, an indirect transfer of chinese taxable assets, including equity interests in a china resident enterprise ( chinese interests ), by a non-resident enterprise, may be recharacterized and treated as a direct transfer of chinese taxable assets, if such arrangement does not have reasonable commercial purpose and the transferor has avoided payment of chinese enterprise income tax. using general anti-tax avoidance provisions, the sat may treat an indirect transfer as a direct transfer of chinese interests if the transfer has avoided chinese tax by way of an arrangement without reasonable commercial purpose. as a result, gains derived from such indirect transfer may be subject to chinese enterprise income tax, and the transferee or other person who is obligated to pay for the transfer would be obligated to withhold the applicable taxes, currently at a rate of up to 10% of the capital gain in the case of an indirect transfer of equity interests in a china resident enterprise. we evaluated the potential applicability of bulletin 7 in connection with the separation in the form of a tax free restructuring and believe it is more likely than not that bulletin 7 does not apply. we believe that the restructuring has reasonable commercial purpose. however, there are significant uncertainties regarding what constitutes a reasonable commercial purpose, how the safe harbor provisions for group restructurings are to be interpreted and how the chinese tax authorities will ultimately view the spin-off. as a result, our position could be challenged by the chinese tax authorities resulting in a tax at a rate of 10% assessed on the difference between the fair market value and the tax basis of yum china. as our tax basis in yum china was minimal, the amount of such a tax could be significant and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our financial condition. failure to protect our service marks or other intellectual property could harm our business. we regard our yum , kfc , pizza hut and taco bell service marks, and other service marks and trademarks related to our restaurant businesses, as having significant value and being important to our marketing efforts. we rely on a combination of 15 protections provided by contracts, copyrights, patents, trademarks, service marks and other common law rights, such as trade secret and unfair competition laws, to protect our restaurants and services from infringement. we have registered certain trademarks and service marks in the u.s. and foreign jurisdictions. however, from time to time we become aware of names and marks identical or confusingly similar to our service marks being used by other persons. although our policy is to oppose any such infringement, further or unknown unauthorized uses or other misappropriation of our trademarks or service marks could diminish the value of our brands and adversely affect our business. in addition, effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which our concepts have, or may in the future open or franchise, a restaurant. there can be no assurance that these protections will be adequate, and defending or enforcing our service marks and other intellectual property could result in the expenditure of significant resources. we may also face claims of infringement that could interfere with the use of the proprietary know-how, concepts, recipes, or trade secrets used in our business. defending against such claims may be costly, and we may be prohibited from using such proprietary information in the future or forced to pay damages, royalties, or other fees for using such proprietary information, any of which could negatively affect our business, reputation, financial condition, and results of operations. our business may be adversely impacted by changes in consumer discretionary spending and general economic conditions. purchases at our concepts' restaurants are discretionary for consumers and, therefore, our results of operations are susceptible to economic slowdowns and recessions. our and our franchisees' results of operations are dependent upon discretionary spending by consumers, which may be affected by general economic conditions globally or in one or more of the markets we serve. some of the factors that impact discretionary consumer spending include unemployment rates, fluctuations in the level of disposable income, the price of gasoline, stock market performance and changes in the level of consumer confidence. these and other macroeconomic factors could have an adverse effect on our sales, profitability or development plans, which could harm our financial condition and operating results. the retail food industry in which we operate is highly competitive. the retail food industry in which our concepts operate is highly competitive with respect to price and quality of food products, new product development, digital engagement, advertising levels and promotional initiatives, customer service, reputation, restaurant location, and attractiveness and maintenance of properties. if consumer or dietary preferences change, if our marketing efforts are unsuccessful, or if our concepts' restaurants are unable to compete successfully with other retail food outlets in new and existing markets, our and our franchisees' businesses could be adversely affected. we also face growing competition as a result of convergence in grocery, convenience, deli and restaurant services, including the offering by the grocery industry of convenient meals, including pizzas and entrees with side dishes. competition from delivery aggregators and other food delivery services has also increased in recent years, particularly in urbanized areas, and is expected to continue to increase. increased competition could have an adverse effect on sales, profitability or development plans, which could harm our or our franchisees' financial condition and operating results. our substantial indebtedness makes us more sensitive to adverse economic conditions, may limit our ability to plan for or respond to significant changes in our business, and requires a significant amount of cash to service our debt payment obligations that we may be unable to generate or obtain. as of december 31, 2018, our total outstanding short-term borrowings and long-term debt was approximately $10 billion. subject to the limits contained in the agreements governing our outstanding indebtedness, we may incur additional debt from time to time, which would increase the risks related to our high level of indebtedness. specifically, our high level of indebtedness could have important potential consequences, including, but not limited to: increasing our vulnerability to, and reducing our flexibility to plan for and respond to, adverse economic and industry conditions and changes in our business and the competitive environment; requiring the dedication of a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal of, and interest on, indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of such cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, dividends, share repurchases or other corporate purposes; increasing our vulnerability to a downgrade of our credit rating, which could adversely affect our cost of funds, liquidity and access to capital markets; restricting us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures; placing us at a disadvantage compared to other less leveraged competitors or competitors with comparable debt at more favorable interest rates; increasing our exposure to the risk of increased interest rates insofar as current and future borrowings are subject to variable rates of interest; 16 increasing our exposure to the risk of discontinuance or modification of certain reference rates including libor, which are used to calculate applicable interest rates of our indebtedness and certain derivative instruments that hedge interest rate risk; making it more difficult for us to repay, refinance or satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt; limiting our ability to borrow additional funds in the future and increasing the cost of any such borrowing; imposing restrictive covenants on our operations, which, if not complied with, could result in an event of default, which in turn, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of the applicable debt, and may result in the acceleration of any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies; and increasing our exposure to risks related to fluctuations in foreign currency as we earn profits in a variety of currencies around the world and our debt is primarily denominated in u.s. dollars. there is no assurance that we will generate cash flow from operations or that future debt or equity financings will be available to us to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund other liquidity needs. if our business does not generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the amounts projected or at all, or if future borrowings are not available to us in amounts sufficient to pay our indebtedness or to fund other liquidity needs, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. as a result, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. there is no assurance that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on favorable terms, or at all. any inability to generate sufficient cash flow or refinance our indebtedness on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the company is exposed to financial market risks associated with interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices and the value of our equity investment in grubhub. in the normal course of business and in accordance with our policies, we manage these risks through a variety of strategies, which may include the use of financial and commodity derivative instruments to hedge our underlying exposures. our policies prohibit the use of derivative instruments for trading purposes, and we have processes in place to monitor and control their use. interest rate risk we have a market risk exposure to changes in interest rates, principally in the u.s. our outstanding total debt of $10.1 billion includes 76% fixed-rate debt and 24% variable-rate debt. we have attempted to minimize the interest rate risk from variable-rate debt through the use of interest rate swaps that, as of december 31, 2018, result in a fixed interest rate on $1.55 billion of our variable rate debt. as a result, approximately 91% of our $10.1 billion of outstanding debt at december 31, 2018 is effectively fixed-rate debt. see note 10 for details on these issuances and repayments and note 12 for details related to interest rate swaps. as of both december 31, 2018 and december 31, 2017 a hypothetical 100 basis-point increase in short-term interest rates would result, over the following twelve-month period after consideration of the aforementioned interest rate swaps, in an increase of approximately $9 million in interest expense, net within our consolidated statements of income. these estimated amounts are based upon the current level of variable-rate debt that has not been swapped to fixed and assume no changes in the volume or composition of that debt and exclude any impact from interest income related to cash and cash equivalents. the fair value of our cumulative fixed-rate debt of $7.7 billion as of december 31, 2018, would decrease approximately $400 million as a result of the same hypothetical 100 basis-point increase. at december 31, 2018, a hypothetical 100 basis-point decrease in short-term interest rates would decrease the fair value of our interest rate swaps approximately $100 million. fair value was determined based on the present value of expected future cash flows considering the risks involved and using discount rates appropriate for the durations. 49 foreign currency exchange rate risk changes in foreign currency exchange rates impact the translation of our reported foreign currency denominated earnings, cash flows and net investments in foreign operations and the fair value of our foreign currency denominated financial instruments. historically, we have chosen not to hedge foreign currency risks related to our foreign currency denominated earnings and cash flows through the use of financial instruments. in addition, we attempt to minimize the exposure related to foreign currency denominated financial instruments by purchasing goods and services from third parties in local currencies when practical. consequently, foreign currency denominated financial instruments consist primarily of intercompany receivables and payables. at times, we utilize forward contracts and cross-currency swaps to reduce our exposure related to these intercompany receivables and payables. the notional amount and maturity dates of these contracts match those of the underlying receivables or payables such that our foreign currency exchange risk related to these instruments is minimized. the company's foreign currency net asset exposure (defined as foreign currency assets less foreign currency liabilities) totaled approximately $1.6 billion as of december 31, 2018 . operating in international markets exposes the company to movements in foreign currency exchange rates. the company's primary exposures result from our operations in asia-pacific, europe and the americas. for the fiscal year ended december 31, 2018 operating profit would have decreased approximately $135 million if all foreign currencies had uniformly weakened 10% relative to the u.s. dollar. this estimated reduction assumes no changes in sales volumes, local currency sales or input prices. commodity price risk we are subject to volatility in food costs as a result of market risk associated with commodity prices. our ability to recover increased costs through higher pricing is, at times, limited by the competitive environment in which we operate. we manage our exposure to this risk primarily through pricing agreements with our vendors. equity investment risk yum holds 2,820,464 shares of grubhub common stock (see note 5). as of december 31, 2018, the nyse composite closing sales price of grubhub was $76.81. a hypothetical 10% decline in the price of these shares would result in a $21 million decrease in the fair value of these investments, which would be reflected as a charge in investment (income) expense, net within our consolidated statements of income. the effects of changes in market prices for equity securities are unpredictable, which could cause significant fluctuations in our quarterly and annual results. 50risk factors. you should carefully review the risks described below as they identify important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our forward-looking statements and historical trends. any of the following risk factors, either by itself or together with other risk factors, could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows and/or financial condition. food safety and food-borne illness concerns may have an adverse effect on our business. food-borne illnesses, such as e. coli, listeria, salmonella and trichinosis, occur or may occur within our system from time to time. in addition, food safety issues such as food tampering, contamination and adulteration occur or may occur within our system from time to time. any report or publicity linking us or one of our concepts' restaurants, including restaurants operated by us or our concepts' franchisees, or linking our competitors or the retail food industry generally, to instances of food-borne illness or food safety issues could adversely affect our concepts' brands and reputations as well as our revenues and profits, and possibly lead to product liability claims, litigation, governmental investigations or actions, and damages. if a customer of one of our concepts' restaurants becomes ill from food borne illnesses or as a result of food safety issues, restaurants in our system may be temporarily closed, which could disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, instances or allegations of food-borne illness or food safety issues, real or perceived, involving our restaurants, restaurants of competitors, or our suppliers or distributors (regardless of whether we use or have used those suppliers or distributors), or otherwise involving the types of food served at our restaurants, could result in negative publicity that could adversely affect either our or our concepts' franchisees' revenues and profits. the occurrence of food-borne illnesses or food safety issues could also adversely affect the price and availability of affected ingredients, which could result in disruptions in our supply chain and/or lower margins for us and our concepts' franchisees. health concerns arising from the outbreak of a health epidemic or pandemic, including the coronavirus, may have an adverse effect on our business. our business could be materially and adversely affected by the outbreak of a widespread health epidemic or pandemic, including arising from various strains of avian flu or swine flu, such as h1n1, or the coronavirus, particularly if located in regions from which we derive a significant amount of revenue or profit. the occurrence of such an outbreak or other adverse public health developments could materially disrupt our business and operations. such events could also significantly impact our industry and cause a temporary closure of restaurants, which could severely disrupt our or our franchisees' operations and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in late 2019, a novel strain of coronavirus was first detected in wuhan, china. following the outbreak of this virus, the chinese government has quarantined certain affected regions and certain travel restrictions have been imposed. we have a significant number of kfc and pizza hut concept restaurants located in mainland china, operated by our master franchisee, yum china. many of our restaurants located within mainland china have been temporarily closed, have shortened operating hours and/or have otherwise been adversely affected by the impact of the coronavirus, and these developments have also impacted the ability of yum 7 china's suppliers to provide food and other needed supplies at our concepts' restaurants in mainland china. additionally, other nearby franchisees, such as those in hong kong and taiwan, have experienced significant sales declines as well. we are unable to accurately predict the impact that the coronavirus will have on our results of operations, due to uncertainties including the ultimate geographic spread of the virus within and outside of china, the severity of the disease, the duration of the outbreak, and actions that may be taken by governmental authorities to contain the coronavirus or to treat its impact. however, while it is premature to accurately predict the ultimate impact of these developments, we expect our results for the quarter ending march 31, 2020 to be significantly impacted with potential continuing, adverse impacts beyond march 31, 2020. in addition, our operations could be disrupted if any of our employees or employees of our business partners were suspected of having the avian flu or swine flu, or other illnesses such as hepatitis a, norovirus or coronavirus, since this could require us or our business partners to quarantine some or all of such employees or disinfect our restaurant facilities. outbreaks of avian flu occur from time to time around the world, and such outbreaks have resulted in confirmed human cases. it is possible that outbreaks could reach pandemic levels. public concern over avian flu generally may cause fear about the consumption of chicken, eggs and other products derived from poultry, which could cause customers to consume less poultry and related products. because poultry is a menu offering for our concepts, this would likely result in lower revenues and profits for us and our concepts' franchisees. avian flu outbreaks could also adversely affect the price and availability of poultry, which could negatively impact profit margins and revenues for us and our concepts' franchisees. furthermore, other viruses may be transmitted through human contact, and the risk of contracting viruses could cause employees or guests to avoid gathering in public places, which could adversely affect restaurant guest traffic or the ability to adequately staff restaurants. we could also be adversely affected if government authorities impose mandatory closures, seek voluntary closures, impose restrictions on operations of restaurants, or restrict the import or export of products, or if suppliers issue mass recalls of products. even if such measures are not implemented and a virus or other disease does not spread significantly, the perceived risk of infection or health risk may adversely affect our business and operating results. our operating results and growth strategies are closely and increasingly tied to the success of our concepts' franchisees. the vast majority (98%) of our restaurants are operated by our concepts' franchisees, and our percentage of franchise-owned restaurants has increased in recent years. our refranchising efforts have increased our dependence on the financial success and cooperation of our concepts' franchisees. in addition, our long-term system sales growth targets depend on maintaining the pace of our net system unit growth rate. nearly all of this unit growth is expected to result from new unit openings by our concepts' franchisees. we increasingly also rely on master franchisees, who have rights to license to sub-franchisees the right to develop and operate restaurants, to achieve our expectations for new unit development. if our concepts' franchisees and master franchisees do not meet our expectations for new unit development, we may fall short of our system sales targets. in addition, we have franchise relationships that are particularly important to our business, such as our relationship with yum china as described in a subsequent risk factor below, our strategic alliance with telepizza group s.a., who is the master franchisee of pizza hut in latin america (excluding brazil) and portions of europe, and our relationship with certain large franchisees, such as npc international, inc. the largest operator of pizza hut restaurants in the united states. any failure to realize the expected benefits of such franchise relationships may adversely impact our business and operating results. we have limited control over how our concepts' franchisees' businesses are run, and their inability to operate successfully could adversely affect our operating results through decreased fees paid to us for royalties, advertising funds contributions, and other discrete services we may provide to our concept's franchisees (e.g. management of e-commerce platform). if our concepts' franchisees fail to adequately capitalize their businesses or incur too much debt, if their operating expenses or commodity prices increase or if economic or sales trends deteriorate such that they are unable to operate profitably or repay existing debt, it could result in their financial distress, including insolvency or bankruptcy, or the inability to meet development targets or obligations. if a significant franchisee of one of our concepts becomes, or a significant number of our concepts' franchisees in the aggregate become, financially distressed, our operating results could be impacted through reduced or delayed fee payments that cause us to record bad debt expense, reduced advertising fund contributions, and reduced new unit development. in addition, we are secondarily liable on certain of our concepts' franchisees' restaurant lease agreements, including lease agreements that we have guaranteed or assigned to franchisees in connection with the refranchising of certain company-owned restaurants. our operating results could be impacted by any increased rent obligations for such leased properties to the extent our concepts' franchisees default on such lease agreements. in addition, the failure of our concepts' franchisees to adequately engage in succession planning may adversely affect their restaurant operations and the development of new restaurants, which in turn could hurt our business. our success also depends on the willingness and ability of our concepts' franchisees to implement marketing programs and major initiatives such as restaurant remodels or equipment or technology upgrades, which may require financial investment. our concepts may be unable to successfully implement strategies that we believe are necessary for further growth if their franchisees do not participate, which in turn may harm the growth prospects and financial condition of the company. additionally, the failure of our 8 concepts' franchisees to focus on key elements of restaurant operations, such as quality, service and cleanliness (even if such failures do not rise to the level of breaching the related franchise documents) may be attributed by guests to our concepts' entire brand and could have a negative impact on our business. our reliance on master franchise arrangements can decrease our level of control over our concepts' restaurants and increase certain risks arising from franchise operations. for example, we rely on our master franchisees to monitor and enforce sub-franchisee compliance with our operating standards, and a failure to comply with such standards could adversely affect our business. we may not achieve our target development goals, aggressive development could cannibalize existing sales and new restaurants may not be profitable. our growth strategy depends on our and our concepts' franchisees' ability to increase the number of restaurants around the world. the successful development of new units depends in large part on the ability of our concepts' franchisees to open new restaurants and to operate these restaurants profitably. effectively managing growth can be challenging, particularly as we expand into new markets internationally, and we cannot guarantee that we, or our concepts' franchisees, including yum china, will be able to achieve our expansion goals or that new restaurants will be operated profitably. further, there is no assurance that any new restaurant will produce operating results similar to those of our existing restaurants. other risks that could impact our ability to increase the number of our restaurants include prevailing economic conditions and trade or economic policies or sanctions, our ability to attract new franchisees, construction and development costs of new restaurants, and our, or our concepts' franchisees', ability to obtain suitable restaurant locations, negotiate acceptable lease or purchase terms for the locations, obtain required permits and approvals in a timely manner, hire and train qualified management teams and restaurant crews, and meet construction schedules. expansion into markets could also be affected by our concepts' franchisees' willingness to invest capital or ability to obtain financing to construct and open new restaurants. if it becomes more difficult or more expensive for our concepts' franchisees to obtain financing to develop new restaurants, or if the perceived return on invested capital is not sufficiently attractive, the expected growth of our system could slow and our future revenues and operating cash flows could be adversely impacted. in addition, the development of new restaurants could impact the sales of our concepts' existing restaurants nearby. there can be no assurance that sales cannibalization will not occur or become more significant in the future as we increase our presence in existing markets. we have significant exposure to the chinese market through our largest franchisee, yum china, which subjects us to risks that could negatively affect our business. a significant portion of our total business is conducted in mainland china, particularly with respect to our kfc concept. in connection with the spin-off of our china business in 2016 into an independent publicly-traded company (the "separation" or yum china spin-off ), we entered into a master license agreement with yum china pursuant to which yum china is the exclusive licensee of the kfc, pizza hut and taco bell concepts and their related marks and other intellectual property rights for restaurant services in mainland china. following the separation, yum china became, and continues to be, our largest franchisee. our financial results are significantly affected by yum china's results as we are entitled to receive a 3% sales-based royalty on all yum china system sales related to our concepts. yum china's business is exposed to risks in mainland china, which include, among others, potential political, financial or social instability, changes in economic conditions (including consumer spending, unemployment levels and wage and commodity inflation), consumer preferences, the regulatory environment (including uncertainties with respect to the interpretation and enforcement of chinese laws, rules and regulations), and tax laws and regulations including the tax treatment of the royalty paid to yum, as well as increased media scrutiny of our concepts and industry, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, increased restrictions or tariffs on imported supplies as a result of trade disputes, any epidemics or pandemics arising out of mainland china, and increased competition. further, any significant or prolonged deterioration in u.s.-china relations could adversely affect our concepts in mainland china if chinese consumers reduce the frequency of their visits to yum china's restaurants. chinese law regulates yum china's business conducted within mainland china. our royalty income from the yum china business is therefore subject to numerous uncertainties based on the policies of the chinese government, as they may change from time to time. if yum china's business is harmed or development of our concepts' restaurants is slowed in mainland china due to any of these factors, it could negatively impact the royalty paid by yum china to us, which would negatively impact our financial results or our growth prospects. our relationship with yum china is governed primarily by a master license agreement, which may be terminated upon the occurrence of certain events, such as the insolvency or bankruptcy of yum china. in addition, if we are unable to enforce our intellectual property or contract rights in mainland china, if yum china is unable or unwilling to satisfy its obligations under the master license agreement, or if the master license agreement is otherwise terminated, it could result in an interruption in the 9 operation of our brands that have been exclusively licensed to yum china for use in mainland china. such interruption could cause a delay in, or loss of, royalty income to us, which would negatively impact our financial results. our international operations subject us to risks that could negatively affect our business. a significant portion of our concepts' restaurants are operated in countries and territories outside of the u.s., including in emerging markets, and we intend to continue expansion of our international operations. as a result, our business and the businesses of our concepts' franchisees are increasingly exposed to risks inherent in international operations. these risks, which can vary substantially by country, include political, financial or social instability or conditions, corruption, anti-american sentiment and social and ethnic unrest, as well as changes in economic conditions (including consumer spending, unemployment levels and wage and commodity inflation), the regulatory environment (including the risks of operating in developing or emerging markets in which there are significant uncertainties regarding the interpretation and enforceability of legal requirements and the enforceability of contract rights and intellectual property rights), income and non-income based tax rates and laws, the impact of import restrictions or controls, sanctions, foreign exchange control regimes including restrictions on currency conversion, natural disasters, the impact of labor costs and conditions, consumer preferences and the laws and policies that govern foreign investment in countries where our concepts' restaurants are operated. for example, we have been subject to a regulatory enforcement action in india alleging violation of foreign exchange laws for failure to satisfy conditions of certain operating approvals, such as minimum investment and store build requirements as well as limitations on the remittance of fees outside of the country (see note 19). in addition, we and our franchisees do business in jurisdictions that may be subject to trade or economic sanction regimes and such sanctions could be expanded. any failure to comply with such sanction regimes or other similar laws or regulations could result in the assessment of damages, the imposition of penalties, suspension of business licenses, or a cessation of operations at our or our franchisees' businesses, as well as damage to our and our concepts' brands' images and reputations, all of which could harm our profitability. foreign currency risks and foreign exchange controls could adversely affect our financial results. our results of operations and the value of our foreign assets are affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which may adversely affect reported earnings. more specifically, an increase in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to other currencies, such as the chinese renminbi ( rmb ), australian dollar, the british pound and the euro, as well as currencies in certain other markets, such as the malaysian ringgit and russian ruble, could have an adverse effect on our reported earnings. there can be no assurance as to the future effect of any such changes on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. in addition, the governments in certain countries where we operate, including china, restrict the conversion of local currency into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of the country. yum china's income is almost exclusively derived from the earnings of its chinese subsidiaries, with substantially all revenues of its chinese subsidiaries denominated in rmb. any significant fluctuation in the value of the rmb could materially impact the u.s. dollar value of royalty payments made to us by yum china, which could result in lower revenues. in addition, restrictions on the conversion of rmb to u.s. dollars or further restrictions on the remittance of currency out of china could result in delays in the remittance of yum china's royalty, which could impact our liquidity. failure to protect the integrity and security of personal information of our customers and employees could result in substantial costs, expose us to litigation and damage our reputation. we receive and maintain certain personal, financial and other information about our customers, employees, vendors and franchisees. in addition, our vendors and/or franchisees receive and maintain certain personal, financial and other information about our employees and customers. the use and handling of this information is regulated by evolving and increasingly demanding laws and regulations in various jurisdictions, as well as by certain third-party contracts. we have experienced cyber- attacks and security breaches from time to time. if our security and information systems are compromised as a result of data corruption or loss, cyber-attack or a network security incident or if our employees, franchisees or vendors fail to comply with these laws and regulations and this information is obtained by unauthorized persons or used inappropriately, it could result in liabilities and penalties and could damage our reputation, cause us to incur substantial costs and result in a loss of customer confidence, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. additionally, we could be subject to litigation and government enforcement actions as a result of any such failure. further, data privacy is subject to frequently changing rules and regulations, which sometimes conflict among the various jurisdictions and countries where we, our concepts and our concepts' franchisees do business. for example, the general data protection regulation ("gdpr"), which was adopted by the european union effective may 2018, requires companies to meet new requirements regarding the handling of personal data. in addition, the state of california enacted the california consumer privacy act (the ccpa ), which became effective january 2020 and requires companies that process information on california residents to, among other things, provide new disclosures and options to consumers about data collection, use and sharing practices. 10 moreover, each of the gdpr and the ccpa confer a private right-of-action on certain individuals and associations. our failure to adhere to or successfully implement appropriate processes to adhere to the requirements of gdpr, ccpa and other evolving laws and regulations in this area could result in financial penalties, legal liability and could damage our and our concepts' brands' reputations. unreliable or inefficient restaurant or consumer-facing technology or the failure to successfully implement technology initiatives in the future could adversely impact operating results. we and our concepts' franchisees rely heavily on information technology systems in the conduct of our business, some of which are managed, hosted, provided and/or used by third parties, including, for example, point-of-sale processing in our restaurants, management of our supply chain, and various other processes and procedures. these systems are subject to damage, interruption or failure due to theft, fire, power outages, telecommunications failure, computer viruses, security breaches, malicious cyber-attacks or other catastrophic events. certain technology systems may also be unreliable or inefficient, and technology vendors may limit or terminate product support and maintenance, which could impact the reliability of critical systems operations. if our or our concepts' franchisees' information technology systems are damaged or fail to function properly, we may incur substantial costs to repair or replace them, and may experience loss of critical data and interruptions or delays in our ability to manage inventories or process transactions, which could result in lost sales, customer or employee dissatisfaction, or negative publicity that could negatively impact our reputation, results of operations and financial condition. we and our concepts' franchisees rely on technology not only to efficiently operate our restaurants but also to drive the customer experience, sales growth and margin improvement. execution of our growth strategy will be dependent on our initiatives to implement proprietary and third-party technology solutions and gather and leverage data to enhance restaurant operations and improve the customer experience. we may not be able recruit and retain qualified individuals for these efforts, and there is intense competition for qualified technology systems developers necessary to develop and implement new technologies for our growth initiatives, including increasing our digital relationships with customers. our strategic technology initiatives may not be implemented in a timely manner or may not achieve the desired results. even if we effectively implement and manage our technology initiatives, they may not result in sales growth or margin improvement. additionally, implementing the evolving technology demands of the consumer may place a significant financial burden on us and our concepts' franchisees. moreover, our failure to adequately invest in new technology or adapt to technological developments and industry trends, particularly with respect to digital commerce capabilities, could result in a loss of customers and related market share. if our concepts' digital commerce platforms do not meet customers' expectations in terms of security, speed, attractiveness or ease of use, customers may be less inclined to return to such digital commerce platforms, which could negatively impact our business. there are risks associated with our increasing dependence on digital commerce platforms to maintain and grow sales. such platforms may experience disruptions, which could harm our ability to compete and conduct our business. customers are increasingly using e-commerce websites and apps, both domestically and internationally, like pizzahut.com, pizza hut, kfc and taco bell apps, as well as apps owned by third-party delivery aggregators such as grubhub and third-party mobile payment processors, to order and pay for our concepts' products. as a result, our concepts and our concepts' franchisees are increasingly reliant on digital ordering and payment as a sales channel. these digital ordering and payment platforms could be damaged or interrupted by power loss, technological failures, user errors, cyber-attacks, other forms of sabotage or acts of god. in particular, pizza hut relies on digital orders for a significant portion of its sales and could experience and has experienced interruptions of its digital ordering platforms, which limited or delayed customers' ability to order through such platforms or made customers less inclined to return to such platforms. any such limitation or delay would negatively impact pizza hut's sales and customer experience and perception. yum china, our largest franchisee, utilizes third-party mobile payment apps such as alipay and wechat as a means through which to generate sales and process payments. should customers become unable to access mobile payment apps in china, or should the relationship between yum china and one or more third-party mobile payment processors become interrupted, our results of operations could be negatively impacted. our inability or failure to recognize, respond to and effectively manage the accelerated impact of social media could adversely impact our business. in recent years, there has been a marked increase in the use of social media platforms, including blogs, chat platforms, social media websites, and other forms of internet-based communications which allow individuals access to a broad audience of consumers and other interested persons. the rising popularity of social media and other consumer-oriented technologies has increased the speed and accessibility of information dissemination. many social media platforms immediately publish the content their subscribers and participants post, often without filters or checks on accuracy of the content posted. information posted on such 11 platforms at any time may be adverse to our interests and/or may be inaccurate. the dissemination of information online could harm our business, reputation, financial condition, and results of operations, regardless of the information's accuracy. the damage may be immediate without affording us an opportunity for redress or correction. in addition, social media is frequently used by our concepts to communicate with their respective customers and the public in general. failure by our concepts to use social media effectively or appropriately, particularly as compared to our concepts' respective competitors, could lead to a decline in brand value, customer visits and revenue. other risks associated with the use of social media include improper disclosure of proprietary information, negative comments about our concepts' brands, exposure of personally identifiable information, fraud, hoaxes or malicious dissemination of false information. the inappropriate use of social media by our customers or employees could increase our costs, lead to litigation or result in negative publicity that could damage our reputation and adversely affect our results of operations. shortages or interruptions in the availability and delivery of food and other supplies may increase costs or reduce revenues. the products sold by our concepts and their franchisees are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international suppliers although certain products have limited suppliers, which increases our reliance on those suppliers. we, along with our concepts' franchisees, are also dependent upon third parties to make frequent deliveries of food products and supplies that meet our specifications at competitive prices. shortages or interruptions in the supply of food items and other supplies to our concepts' restaurants have happened from time to time and could adversely affect the availability, quality and cost of items we use and the operations of our restaurants. future shortages or disruptions could be caused by inclement weather, natural disasters, inaccurate forecasting of customer demand, problems in production or distribution, restrictions on imports or exports including due to trade disputes, the inability of vendors to obtain credit, political instability in the countries in which the suppliers and distributors are located, the financial instability of suppliers and distributors, suppliers' or distributors' failure to meet our standards or requirements, transitioning to new suppliers or distributors, product quality issues, inflation, other factors relating to the suppliers and distributors and the countries in which they are located, food safety warnings or advisories or the prospect of such pronouncements, product recalls, the cancellation of supply or distribution agreements or an inability to renew such arrangements or to find replacements on commercially reasonable terms, or other conditions beyond our control or the control of our concepts' franchisees. moreover, the withdrawal of the united kingdom from the european union which occurred effective as of january 31, 2020, to be followed by a transition period which is scheduled to expire on december 31, 2020 (unless otherwise extended) in which the united kingdom and the european union will negotiate the terms of this withdrawal, may give to rise to economic, financial, legal, tax and trade uncertainties that may adversely impact us and could, depending on the terms negotiated during the transition period, result in the reimposition of customs and border controls, which in turn may result in shortages or interruptions in supply to our concepts in the united kingdom with consequences similar to those described above. in addition, in the u.s., the company, along with representatives of the company's kfc, pizza hut and taco bell franchisee groups, are members of restaurant supply chain solutions, llc ( rscs"), which is a third-party responsible for purchasing certain restaurant products and equipment, and mclane foodservice, inc. ("mclane") serves as the largest distributor for each of the company's concepts in the u.s. any failure or inability of our significant suppliers or distributors, including rscs or mclane to perform could result in shortages or interruptions in the availability of food and other supplies. a shortage or interruption in the availability of certain food products or supplies could increase costs and limit the availability of products critical to restaurant operations, which in turn could lead to restaurant closures and/or a decrease in sales. in addition, failure by a key supplier or distributor for our concepts and/or our concepts' franchisees to meet its service requirements could lead to a disruption of service or supply until a new supplier or distributor is engaged, and any disruption could have an adverse effect on our business. the loss of key personnel, or labor shortages or difficulty finding qualified employees could slow our growth, harm our business and reduce our profitability. much of our future success depends on the continued availability and service of senior management personnel. the loss of any of our executive officers or other key senior management personnel could harm our business. in addition, our restaurant operations are highly service-oriented and our success depends in part upon our and our concepts' franchisees' ability to attract, retain and motivate a sufficient number of qualified employees, including franchisee management, restaurant managers and other crew members. the market for qualified employees in the retail food industry is very competitive. any future inability to recruit and retain qualified individuals may delay our planned use, development or deployment of technology or the planned openings of new restaurants by us and our concepts' franchisees which could have a material adverse impact on the operation of our concepts' existing restaurants. 12 in addition, strikes, work slowdowns or other job actions may become more common. in the event of a strike, work slowdown or other labor unrest, the ability to adequately staff our concepts' restaurants could be impaired, which could result in reduced revenue and customer claims, and may distract our management from focusing on our business and strategic priorities. changes in labor and other operating costs could adversely affect our and our franchisees' results of operations. an increase in the costs of employee wages, benefits and insurance (including workers' compensation, general liability, property and health) as well as other operating costs such as rent and energy costs could adversely affect our and our franchisees' operating results. such increases could result from general economic or competitive conditions or from government imposition of higher minimum wages at the federal, state or local level. moreover, there may be a long-term trend toward higher wages in developing markets any increase in such operating expenses could adversely affect our and our concepts' franchisees' profit margins. in addition, competition for qualified employees could also compel us or our concepts' franchisees to pay higher wages to attract or retain key crew members, which could result in higher labor costs and decreased profitability. an increase in food prices may have an adverse impact on our and our concepts' franchisees' profit margins. our and our concepts' franchisees' businesses depend on reliable sources of large quantities of raw materials such as proteins (including poultry, pork, beef and seafood), cheese, oil, flour and vegetables (including potatoes and lettuce). raw materials purchased for use in our concepts' restaurants are subject to price volatility caused by any fluctuation in aggregate supply and demand, or other external conditions, such as weather conditions, or natural events or disasters that affect expected harvests of such raw materials, taxes and tariffs (including as a result of trade disputes), industry demand, food safety concerns, product recalls, governmental regulation and other factors, all of which are beyond our control and in many instances are unpredictable. as a result, the historical prices of raw materials used in the operation of our concepts' restaurants have fluctuated. we cannot assure that we or our concepts' franchisees will continue to be able to purchase raw materials at reasonable prices, or that the cost of raw materials will remain stable in the future. in addition, a significant increase in gasoline prices could result in the imposition of fuel surcharges by our distributors. because we and our concepts' franchisees provide competitively priced food, we may not have the ability to pass through to our customers the full amount of any commodity price increases. if we and our concepts' franchisees are unable to manage the cost of raw materials or to increase the prices of products proportionately, our and our franchisees' profit margins may be adversely impacted. our concepts' brands may be harmed or diluted through franchisee and third-party activity. although we monitor and regulate franchisee activities through our concepts' franchise agreements, franchisees or other third parties may refer to or make statements about our concepts' brands that do not make proper use of our trademarks or required designations, that improperly alter trademarks or branding, or that are critical of our concepts' brands or place our concepts' brands in a context that may tarnish their reputation. this may result in dilution of, or harm to, our intellectual property or the value of our concepts' brands. franchisee noncompliance with the terms and conditions of our franchise agreements may reduce the overall goodwill of our concepts' brands, whether through the failure to meet health and safety standards, engage in quality control or maintain product consistency, or through the participation in improper or objectionable business practices. moreover, unauthorized third parties, including our concepts' current and former franchisees, may use our intellectual property to trade on the goodwill of our concepts' brands, resulting in consumer confusion or brand dilution. any reduction of our concepts' brands' goodwill, consumer confusion, or brand dilution is likely to impact sales, and could materially and adversely impact our business and results of operations. our success depends substantially on our corporate reputation and on the value and perception of our brands. our success depends in large part upon our ability and our concepts' franchisees' ability to maintain and enhance the value of our brands and our customers' loyalty to our brands. brand value is based in part on consumer perceptions on a variety of subjective qualities. those perceptions are affected by a variety of factors, including the nutritional content and preparation of our food, the ingredients we use, and the manner in which we source the commodities we use. consumer acceptance of our offerings is subject to change for a variety of reasons, and some changes can occur rapidly. for example, nutritional, health and other scientific studies and conclusions, which constantly evolve and may have contradictory implications, drive popular opinion, litigation and regulation (including initiatives intended to drive consumer behavior) in ways that may affect perceptions of our concepts' brands generally or relative to available alternatives. in addition, business incidents, whether isolated or recurring, and whether originating from us, our concepts' restaurants, franchisees, competitors, governments, suppliers or distributors, can significantly reduce brand value 13 and consumer trust, particularly if the incidents receive considerable publicity or result in litigation or investigations. for example, our concepts' brands could be damaged by claims or perceptions about the quality or safety of our products or the quality or reputation of our suppliers, distributors or franchisees or that we, our concepts' franchisees or other business partners are acting in an unethical, illegal, racially-biased or socially irresponsible manner, regardless of whether such claims or perceptions are true. similarly, entities in our supply chain may engage in conduct, including alleged human rights abuses or environmental wrongdoing, and any such conduct could damage our or our concepts' brands' reputations. any such incidents (even if resulting from actions of a competitor or franchisee) could cause a decline directly or indirectly in consumer confidence in, or the perception of, our concepts' brands and/or our products and reduce consumer demand for our products, which would likely result in lower revenues and profits. additionally, our corporate reputation could suffer from a real or perceived failure of corporate governance or misconduct by a company officer, or an employee or representative of us or a franchisee. we could be party to litigation that could adversely affect us by increasing our expenses, diverting management attention or subjecting us to significant monetary damages and other remedies. we are regularly involved in legal proceedings, which include regulatory claims or disputes, consumer, personal injury, claims from franchisees employment, real estate related, tort, intellectual property, breach of contract, securities, derivative and other litigation. see the discussion of legal proceedings in note 19 to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this form 10-k. plaintiffs in these types of lawsuits often seek recovery of very large or indeterminate amounts, lawsuits are subject to inherent uncertainties (some of which are beyond the company's control), and unfavorable rulings or developments could occur. moreover, regardless of whether any such claims have merit, or whether we are ultimately held liable or settle, such litigation may be expensive to defend, may divert resources and management attention away from our operations, and may negatively impact our results of operations. with respect to insured claims, a judgment for monetary damages in excess of any insurance coverage could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. moreover, any adverse publicity resulting from these allegations may also adversely affect our concepts' reputations, which in turn could adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, the restaurant industry around the world has been subject to claims that relate to the nutritional content of food products, as well as claims that the menus and practices of restaurant chains have led to customer health issues, including weight gain and other adverse effects. we may also be subject to such claims in the future and, even if we are not, publicity about these matters (particularly directed at the quick service and fast-casual segments of the retail food industry) may harm our concepts' reputations and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. moreover, these could lead to an increase in the regulation of the content or marketing of our products, including legislation or regulation seeking to tax and/or regulate high-fat foods, foods with high sugar and salt content, or foods otherwise deemed to be unhealthy, which could increase costs of compliance and remediation to us and our franchisees. changes in, or noncompliance with, governmental regulations may adversely affect our business operations, growth prospects or financial condition. the company, and our concepts and their franchisees, are subject to numerous laws and regulations around the world. these laws change regularly and are increasingly complex. for example, we are subject to: the americans with disabilities act in the u.s. and similar state laws that give civil rights protections to individuals with disabilities in the context of employment, public accommodations and other areas. the u.s. fair labor standards act, which governs matters such as minimum wages, overtime and other working conditions, as well as family leave mandates and a variety of similar state laws that govern these and other employment law matters. laws and regulations in government-mandated health care benefits such as the patient protection and affordable care act in the u.s. laws and regulations relating to nutritional content, nutritional labeling, product safety, product marketing and menu labeling. laws relating to state and local licensing. laws relating to the relationship between franchisors and franchisees. laws and regulations relating to health, sanitation, food, workplace safety, child labor, including laws regulating the use of certain hazardous equipment , building and zoning, and fire safety and prevention. laws and regulations relating to union organizing rights and activities. laws relating to information security, privacy (including the european union's gdpr and california's ccpa), cashless payments, and consumer protection. laws relating to currency conversion or exchange. laws relating to international trade and sanctions. tax laws and regulations. 14 anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws. environmental laws and regulations. federal and state immigration laws and regulations in the u.s. compliance with new or existing laws and regulations could impact our or our concepts' franchisees' operations. the compliance costs associated with these laws and regulations could be substantial. in addition, if any governmental authority were to adopt and implement a broader standard for determining when two or more otherwise unrelated employers may be found to be a joint employer of the same employees under laws such as the national labor relations act in a manner that is applied generally to franchise relationships (which broader standards in the past have been adopted by u.s. governmental agencies such as the national labor relations board), this could cause us or our concepts to be liable or held responsible for unfair labor practices and other violations and could subject our concepts to other liabilities, and/or require our concepts to conduct collective bargaining negotiations, regarding employees of totally separate, independent employers, most notably our concepts' franchisees. further, a recently-enacted law in california sets out an employment classification test that established a new standard for determining employee or independent contractor status. this law and any similar laws enacted at the federal, state or local level, could increase our and our franchisees' labor costs and decrease profitability or could cause our franchisees to be deemed employees of our concepts. any failure or alleged failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations could adversely affect our reputation, international expansion efforts, growth prospects and financial results or result in, among other things, litigation, revocation of required licenses, internal investigations, governmental investigations or proceedings, administrative enforcement actions, fines and civil and criminal liability. publicity relating to any such noncompliance could also harm our concepts' reputations and adversely affect our revenues. additionally, we are working to manage the risks and costs to us, our franchisees and our supply chain of the effects of climate change, greenhouse gases, and diminishing energy and water resources. these risks include the increased public focus, including by governmental and nongovernmental organizations, on these and other environmental sustainability matters, such as packaging and waste, animal health and welfare, deforestation and land use. these risks also include the increased pressure to make commitments, set targets, or establish additional goals and take actions to meet them. these risks could expose us to market, operational, reputational and execution costs or risks. failure to comply with anti-bribery or anti-corruption laws could adversely affect our business operations. the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, the uk bribery act and other similar applicable laws prohibiting bribery of government officials and other corrupt practices are the subject of increasing emphasis and enforcement around the world. there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, agents or other third parties will not take actions in violation of our policies or applicable law, particularly as we expand our operations in emerging markets and elsewhere. any such violations or suspected violations could subject us to civil or criminal penalties, including substantial fines and significant investigation costs, and could also materially damage our reputation, brands, international expansion efforts and growth prospects, business and operating results. publicity relating to any noncompliance or alleged noncompliance could also harm our concepts' reputations and adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. tax matters, including changes in tax rates or laws, disagreements with taxing authorities, imposition of new taxes and our restructurings could impact our results of operations and financial condition. we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property, withholding and franchise taxes in both the u.s. and various foreign jurisdictions. we are also subject to ongoing and/or regular reviews, examinations and audits by the u.s. internal revenue service ( irs ) and other taxing authorities with respect to such income and non-income based taxes inside and outside of the u.s. our accruals for tax liabilities are based on past experience, interpretations of applicable law, and judgments about potential actions by tax authorities, but such accruals require significant judgment which may be incorrect and may result in payments greater than the amounts accrued. if the irs or another taxing authority disagrees with our tax positions, we could face additional tax liabilities, including interest and penalties. payment of additional amounts upon final settlement or adjudication of any disputes could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position. in addition, we are directly and indirectly affected by new tax laws and regulation and the interpretation of tax laws and regulations worldwide. changes in laws, regulation or interpretation of existing laws and regulations in the u.s. and other jurisdictions where we are subject to taxation could increase our taxes and have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. changes in tax laws may arise as a result of tax policy guidance issued by the organisation for economic co-operation and development ( oecd ), a coalition of member nations including the united states. the oecd guidance, referred to as the base erosion and profit shifting ( beps ) action plan, does not have the force of law, but certain countries may enact tax legislation, 15 modify tax treaties, and/or increase audit scrutiny based on the beps guidance. to the extent beps principles are adopted by major jurisdictions in which we operate, it could increase our taxes and have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial position. we have in the past and may in the future adapt our entity and operating structure in response to and in compliance with changes in tax laws, regulations, or interpretation of existing laws and regulations. such restructurings could result in material incremental tax costs associated with restructuring transactions or operations of the structure. in addition, public perception that we are not paying a sufficient amount of taxes could damage our concepts' reputations, which could harm our profitability. the yum china spin-off and certain related transactions could result in substantial u.s. tax liability. we received opinions of outside counsel substantially to the effect that, for u.s. federal income tax purposes, the yum china spin-off and certain related transactions qualified as generally tax-free under sections 355 and 361 of the u.s. internal revenue code. the opinions relied on various facts and assumptions, as well as certain representations as to factual matters and undertakings (including with respect to future conduct) made by yum china and us. if any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are incorrect or not satisfied, we may not be able to rely on these opinions of outside counsel. accordingly, notwithstanding receipt of the opinions of outside counsel, the conclusions reached in the tax opinions may be challenged by the irs. because the opinions are not binding on the irs or the courts, there can be no assurance that the irs or the courts will not prevail in any such challenge. if, notwithstanding receipt of any opinion, the irs were to conclude that the yum china spin-off was taxable, in general, we would recognize taxable gain as if we had sold the yum china common stock in a taxable sale for its fair market value. in addition, each u.s. holder of our common stock who received shares of yum china common stock in connection with the spin-off transaction would generally be treated as having received a taxable distribution of property in an amount equal to the fair market value of the shares of yum china common stock received. that distribution would be taxable to each such u.s. stockholder as a dividend to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits. for each such u.s. stockholder, any amount that exceeded our earnings and profits would be treated first as a non-taxable return of capital to the extent of such stockholder's tax basis in our shares of common stock with any remaining amount being taxed as a capital gain. the yum china spin-off may be subject to china indirect transfer tax. in february 2015, the chinese state administration of taxation ( sat ) issued the bulletin on several issues of enterprise income tax on income arising from indirect transfers of property by non-resident enterprises ( bulletin 7 ). pursuant to bulletin 7, an indirect transfer of chinese taxable assets, including equity interests in a china resident enterprise ( chinese interests ), by a non-resident enterprise, may be recharacterized and treated as a direct transfer of chinese taxable assets, if such arrangement does not have reasonable commercial purpose and the transferor has avoided payment of chinese enterprise income tax. using general anti-tax avoidance provisions, the sat may treat an indirect transfer as a direct transfer of chinese interests if the transfer has avoided chinese tax by way of an arrangement without reasonable commercial purpose. as a result, gains derived from such indirect transfer may be subject to chinese enterprise income tax, and the transferee or other person who is obligated to pay for the transfer would be obligated to withhold the applicable taxes, currently at a rate of up to 10% of the capital gain in the case of an indirect transfer of equity interests in a china resident enterprise. we evaluated the potential applicability of bulletin 7 in connection with the separation in the form of a tax free restructuring and believe it is more likely than not that bulletin 7 does not apply. we believe that the restructuring has reasonable commercial purpose. however, there are significant uncertainties regarding what constitutes a reasonable commercial purpose, how the safe harbor provisions for group restructurings are to be interpreted and how the chinese tax authorities will ultimately view the spin-off. as a result, our position could be challenged by the chinese tax authorities resulting in a tax at a rate of 10% assessed on the difference between the fair market value and the tax basis of yum china. as our tax basis in yum china was minimal, the amount of such a tax could be significant and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our financial condition. failure to protect our service marks or other intellectual property could harm our business. we regard our yum , kfc , pizza hut , and taco bell service marks, and other service marks and trademarks related to our restaurant businesses, as having significant value and being important to our marketing efforts. we rely on a combination of protections provided by contracts, copyrights, patents, trademarks, service marks and other common law rights, such as trade secret and unfair competition laws, to protect our restaurants and services from infringement. we have registered certain trademarks and service marks in the u.s. and foreign jurisdictions. however, from time to time we become aware of names and marks identical or confusingly similar to our service marks being used by other persons. although our policy is to oppose any such infringement, 16 further or unknown unauthorized uses or other misappropriation of our trademarks or service marks could diminish the value of our brands and adversely affect our business. in addition, effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which our concepts have, or may in the future open or franchise, a restaurant, and the laws of some foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. there can be no assurance that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property or the legal protections which may be available will be adequate, and defending or enforcing our service marks and other intellectual property could result in the expenditure of significant resources or result in significant harm to our business, reputation, financial condition, and results of operations. we may also face claims of infringement that could interfere with the use of the proprietary know-how, recipes, or trade secrets used in our business. defending against such claims may be costly, and we may be prohibited from using such proprietary information in the future or forced to pay damages, royalties, or other fees for using such proprietary information, any of which could negatively affect our business, reputation, financial condition, and results of operations. our business may be adversely impacted by changes in consumer discretionary spending and general economic conditions. our and our franchisees' results of operations are dependent upon discretionary spending by consumers, which may be affected by general economic conditions globally or in one or more of the markets we serve, and are susceptible to economic slowdowns and recessions. some of the factors that impact discretionary consumer spending include unemployment and underemployment rates, fluctuations in the level of disposable income, the price of gasoline and other inflationary pressures, stock market performance and changes in the level of consumer confidence. these and other macroeconomic factors could have an adverse effect on our or our franchisees' sales, profitability or development plans, which could harm our financial condition and operating results. the retail food industry in which we operate is highly competitive. our concept restaurants compete with international, national and regional restaurant chains as well as locally-owned restaurants, and the retail food industry in which our concepts operate is highly competitive with respect to price and quality of food products, new product development, digital engagement, advertising levels and promotional initiatives (including the frequent use by our competitors of price discounting, such as through value meal menu options, coupons and other methods), customer service, reputation, restaurant location, and attractiveness and maintenance of properties. in addition, our concepts compete within the retail food industry for management and hourly personnel, suitable real estate sites, and qualified franchisees. if consumer or dietary preferences change, if our marketing efforts and/or launch of new products are unsuccessful, or if our concepts' restaurants are unable to compete successfully with other retail food outlets in new and existing markets, our and our franchisees' businesses could be adversely affected. we also face growing competition as a result of convergence in grocery, convenience, deli and restaurant services, including the offering by the grocery industry of convenient meals, including pizzas and entrees with side dishes. competition from delivery aggregators and other food delivery services has also increased in recent years, particularly in urbanized areas, and is expected to continue to increase. increased competition could have an adverse effect on sales, profitability or development plans, which could harm our or our franchisees' financial condition and operating results. we may not realize the anticipated benefits from past or potential future acquisitions, investments or other strategic transactions. from time to time we evaluate and may complete mergers, acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures, strategic partnerships, minority investments (which may include minority investments in third parties, such as franchisees or master franchisees) and other strategic transactions, including our pending acquisition of the habit restaurants, inc. (in respect of which a definitive agreement was signed in january 2020), our strategic alliance with telepizza group s.a. effectuated in december 2018, our acquisition of quikorder, llc completed in december 2018 and our minority investment in grubhub, inc. completed in april 2018. while we currently contemplate that the acquisition of the habit restaurants, inc. will be completed by the end of the first quarter of 2020, there is no guarantee that this acquisition will be completed on this time frame or at all. past and potential future strategic transactions may involve various inherent risks, including, without limitation: expenses, delays or difficulties in integrating acquired companies, joint venture operations, strategic partnerships or investments into our organization, including the failure to realize expected synergies and/or the inability to retain key personnel; diversion of management's attention from other initiatives and/or day-to-day operations to effectively execute our growth strategy; inability to generate sufficient revenue, profit, and cash flow from acquired companies, joint ventures, strategic partnerships or investments; 17 the possibility that we have acquired substantial contingent or unanticipated liabilities in connection with acquisitions or other strategic transactions; and the possibility that investments we have made may decline significantly in value. past and potential future strategic transactions may not ultimately create value for us and may harm our reputation and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, we account for certain investments, including our investment in grubhub, on a mark-to-market basis and, as a result, changes in the fair value of these investments impact our reported results. changes in market prices for equity securities are unpredictable, and our investment in grubhub has caused, and could continue to cause, significant fluctuations in our results of operations. our substantial indebtedness makes us more sensitive to adverse economic conditions, may limit our ability to plan for or respond to significant changes in our business, and requires a significant amount of cash to service our debt payment obligations that we may be unable to generate or obtain. as of december 31, 2019, our total outstanding short-term borrowings and long-term debt was approximately $10.6 billion. subject to the limits contained in the agreements governing our outstanding indebtedness, we may incur additional debt from time to time, which would increase the risks related to our high level of indebtedness. specifically, our high level of indebtedness could have important potential consequences, including, but not limited to: increasing our vulnerability to, and reducing our flexibility to plan for and respond to, adverse economic and industry conditions and changes in our business and the competitive environment; requiring the dedication of a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal of, and interest on, indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of such cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, dividends, share repurchases or other corporate purposes; increasing our vulnerability to a downgrade of our credit rating, which could adversely affect our cost of funds, liquidity and access to capital markets; restricting us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures; placing us at a disadvantage compared to other less leveraged competitors or competitors with comparable debt at more favorable interest rates; increasing our exposure to the risk of increased interest rates insofar as current and future borrowings are subject to variable rates of interest; increasing our exposure to the risk of discontinuance, replacement or modification of certain reference rates, including libor, which are used to calculate applicable interest rates of our indebtedness and certain derivative instruments that hedge interest rate risk; making it more difficult for us to repay, refinance or satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt; limiting our ability to borrow additional funds in the future and increasing the cost of any such borrowing; imposing restrictive covenants on our operations as the result of the terms of our indebtedness, which, if not complied with, could result in an event of default, which in turn, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of the applicable debt, and may result in the acceleration of any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies; and increasing our exposure to risks related to fluctuations in foreign currency as we earn profits in a variety of currencies around the world and our debt is primarily denominated in u.s. dollars. there is no assurance that we will generate cash flow from operations or that future debt or equity financings will be available to us to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund other liquidity needs. if our business does not generate sufficient cash flow from operations or if future borrowings are not available to us in amounts sufficient to pay our indebtedness or to fund other liquidity needs, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. as a result, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. there is no assurance that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on favorable terms, or at all. any inability to generate sufficient cash flow or refinance our indebtedness on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the company is exposed to financial market risks associated with interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices and the value of our equity investment in grubhub. in the normal course of business and in accordance with our policies, we manage these risks through a variety of strategies, which may include the use of financial and commodity derivative instruments to hedge our underlying exposures. our policies prohibit the use of derivative instruments for trading purposes, and we have processes in place to monitor and control their use. interest rate risk we have a market risk exposure to changes in interest rates, principally in the u.s. our outstanding total debt, excluding finance leases, of $10.6 billion includes 77% fixed-rate debt and 23% variable-rate debt. we have attempted to minimize the interest rate risk from variable-rate debt through the use of interest rate swaps that, as of december 31, 2019 , result in a fixed interest rate on $1.55 billion of our variable rate debt. as a result, approximately 92% of our $10.6 billion of outstanding debt at december 31, 2019 is effectively fixed-rate debt. see note 10 for details on these issuances and repayments and note 12 for details related to interest rate swaps. as of both december 31, 2019 and december 31, 2018 a hypothetical 100 basis-point increase in short-term interest rates would result, over the following twelve-month period after consideration of the aforementioned interest rate swaps, in an increase of approximately $9 million in interest expense, net within our consolidated statement of income. these estimated amounts are based upon the current level of variable-rate debt that has not been swapped to fixed and assume no changes in the volume or composition of that debt and exclude any impact from interest income related to cash and cash equivalents. the fair value of our cumulative fixed-rate debt of $8.2 billion as of december 31, 2019 , would decrease approximately $450 million as a result of the same hypothetical 100 basis-point increase. at december 31, 2019 , a hypothetical 100 basis-point decrease in short-term interest rates would decrease the fair value of our interest rate swaps approximately $66 million. fair value was determined based on the present value of expected future cash flows considering the risks involved and using discount rates appropriate for the durations. foreign currency exchange rate risk changes in foreign currency exchange rates impact the translation of our reported foreign currency denominated earnings, cash flows and net investments in foreign operations and the fair value of our foreign currency denominated financial instruments. historically, we have chosen not to hedge foreign currency risks related to our foreign currency denominated earnings and cash flows through the use of financial instruments. in addition, we attempt to minimize the exposure related to foreign currency denominated financial instruments by purchasing goods and services from third parties in local currencies when practical. consequently, foreign currency denominated financial instruments consist primarily of intercompany receivables and payables. at times, we utilize forward contracts and cross-currency swaps to reduce our exposure related to these intercompany receivables and payables. the notional amount and maturity dates of these contracts match those of the underlying receivables or payables such that our foreign currency exchange risk related to these instruments is minimized. the company's foreign currency net asset exposure (defined as foreign currency assets less foreign currency liabilities) totaled approximately $1.2 billion as of december 31, 2019 . operating in international markets exposes the company to movements in foreign currency exchange rates. the company's primary exposures result from our operations in asia-pacific, europe and the americas. for the fiscal year ended december 31, 2019 operating profit would have decreased approximately $130 million if all foreign currencies had uniformly weakened 10% relative to the u.s. dollar. this estimated reduction assumes no changes in sales volumes, local currency sales or input prices. 46 commodity price risk we are subject to volatility in food costs as a result of market risk associated with commodity prices. our ability to recover increased costs through higher pricing is, at times, limited by the competitive environment in which we operate. we manage our exposure to this risk primarily through pricing agreements with our vendors. equity investment risk yum holds 2,820,464 shares of grubhub common stock (see note 4). as of december 31, 2019 , the nyse composite closing sales price of grubhub was $48.64. a hypothetical 10% decline in the price of these shares would result in a $14 million decrease in the fair value of these investments, which would be reflected as a charge in investment (income) expense, net within our consolidated statements of income. the effects of changes in market prices for equity securities are unpredictable, which could cause significant fluctuations in our quarterly and annual results. 47