risk factors 11 we conduct substantially all of our business with the u.s. government, principally the department of defense ( dod ). as prime contractor, principal subcontractor, team member or partner, we participate in many high-priority u.s. defense technology programs. with our product capabilities, heavy industrial facilities and a workforce of approximately 38,000 employees, we believe we are positioned to continue to support the long-term objectives of the u.s. navy to adapt and respond to a complex, uncertain and rapidly changing national security environment. newport news the capabilities of our newport news operations extend from our core nuclear business of designing and constructing nuclear-powered ships, such as aircraft carriers and submarines, and the refueling and overhaul of such ships, to our 1 table of contents secondary businesses that are focused on the construction of heavy manufacturing equipment for commercial nuclear power facilities and the operations, management and cleanup of environmental hazard sites through department of energy ( doe ) cleanup programs. our newport news shipyard is one of the largest shipyards in the united states. our facilities are located on approximately 550 acres on the mouth of the james river, which adjoins the chesapeake bay. the shipyard has two miles of waterfront property and heavy industrial facilities that include seven graving docks, a floating dry dock, two outfitting berths, five outfitting piers, a module outfitting facility and various other workshops. our newport news shipyard also has a 2,170-foot dry dock and a 1,050-ton gantry crane capable of servicing two aircraft carriers at one time. design, construction and refueling and complex overhaul ( rcoh ) of aircraft carriers engineering, design and construction of u.s. navy nuclear aircraft carriers are core to our operations. aircraft carriers are the largest ships in the u.s. navy fleet, with a weight displacement of about 90,000 tons. since 1933, newport news has delivered 30 aircraft carriers to the u.s. navy, including all 11 ships currently in active service. the u.s. navy newest carrier and the last of the cvn-68 nimitz -class, cvn-77 uss george h.w. bush , was delivered on may 11, 2009. we have been engaged in design work on the next generation aircraft carrier, the cvn-78 gerald r. ford- class, for over nine years. in 2008, we were awarded a $5.1 billion contract for detail design and construction of the first ship of the class, cvn-78 gerald r. ford , which is scheduled for delivery in 2015. we subsequently received awards in 2009, 2010 and 2011 under a construction preparation contract totaling $1.1 billion for the second cvn-78 gerald r. ford -class aircraft carrier, the cvn-79 john f. kennedy . this four-year contract includes design efforts, planning, procurement of long-lead-time materials, and limited fabrication as well as continued research and development efforts with key suppliers. we continue to be the exclusive prime contractor for nuclear carrier rcohs. each rcoh takes over three years to complete and accounts for approximately 35% of all maintenance and modernization in the service life of an aircraft carrier. rcoh services include propulsion (refueling of reactors, propulsion plant modernization and propulsion plant repairs), restoration of service life (dry docking, tank and void maintenance; hull shafting, propellers, rudders; piping repairs, replacement and upgrades; electrical systems upgrades; aviation capabilities) and modernization (warfare, interoperability and environmental compliance). we provide ongoing maintenance services for the u.s. navy aircraft carrier fleet through both rcoh and repair work. we expect to redeliver cvn-71 uss theodore roosevelt to the u.s. navy following its rcoh in 2013. in 2010, we were awarded a $678 million planning contract (an initial award of $79 million with two one-year options) for the rcoh of the cvn-72 uss abraham lincoln . in 2011, the u.s. navy exercised the first option for $207 million. we believe that our position as the exclusive designer and builder of nuclear-powered aircraft carriers, as well as the fact that this work requires a highly trained workforce, is capital-intensive and has high barriers to entry due to its nuclear requirements, strongly positions us as the frontrunner for the award of future rcoh contracts on the current and future fleet of u.s. navy carriers. aircraft carrier inactivation aircraft carriers have a lifespan of approximately 50 years, and we believe the 11 carriers delivered by us that are currently in active service, as well as those we will deliver in the future, present a significant opportunity for us with respect to their inactivation. we anticipate that in 2013 the u.s. navy will contract with us, through our newport news shipyard, to inactivate the cvn-65 uss enterprise , the world first nuclear-powered aircraft carrier, which was built by us and commissioned in 1961. we have constructed the facility to perform this work at our newport news shipyard. additionally, as other aircraft carriers in the naval fleet age, we believe that the u.s. navy will require inactivation of those ships, and we plan to be positioned as the best choice for the u.s. navy to award that work. we expect each contract for an aircraft carrier inactivation to be valued at over $650 million. design and construction of nuclear-powered submarines we are one of only two companies in the united states capable of designing and building nuclear-powered submarines for the u.s. navy. since 1960, newport news has delivered 57 submarines to the u.s. navy, comprised of 43 fast attack and 14 ballistic missile submarines. of the 54 nuclear-powered fast attack submarines currently in active service, 26 were delivered by newport news. our nuclear submarine program, located at our newport news shipyard, includes construction, engineering, design, research and integrated planning. in february 1997, we executed a teaming agreement with electric boat, a division of general dynamics, to build ssn-774 virginia -class fast attack nuclear submarines cooperatively. under 2 table of contents the present arrangement, we build the stern, habitability and machinery spaces, torpedo room, sail and bow, while electric boat builds the engine room and control room. work on the reactor plant and the final assembly, test, outfit and delivery of the submarine alternate between electric boat and us. the four submarines of the first block and the first four submarines of the second block of ssn-774 virginia -class submarines have been delivered. construction on the remaining two submarines of the second block is underway, with the last submarine scheduled for delivery in 2013. in december 2008, the team was awarded a construction contract for the third block of eight ssn-774 virginia -class submarines. the multi-year contract increased construction from one per year to two submarines per year from 2011 to 2013. the fiscal year 2012 omnibus appropriations act included funding for two virginia -class submarines per year. the eighth submarine to be procured under this contract is scheduled for delivery in 2019. ssbn(x) ohio -class replacement program the u.s. navy issued in february 2010 its report of the quadrennial defense review ( qdr ), a legislatively mandated review of military strategy and priorities for the next four years, which included the force requirements on which the u.s. navy relied to design its 30-year plan, now referred to as the 2012 shipbuilding plan. the 2012 shipbuilding plan states the u.s. navy intention to focus on the design and construction of replacement boats for the current aging ohio -class ballistic and cruise missile submarines. the u.s. navy has committed to designing a replacement class for the ssbn(x) ohio -class nuclear ballistic missile submarines, which were first introduced into service in 1981. although the contract is not yet negotiated, we expect to participate in the design effort and our experience and well-qualified workforce position us for a potential role in the construction effort. the ssbn(x) ohio -class includes 14 ballistic missile submarines ( ssbn ) and four cruise missile submarines ( ssgn ). the ssbn(x) ohio -class submarine replacement program currently anticipates 12 new ballistic missile submarines over a 15-year period at a cost of approximately $4 billion to $7 billion each. the first ohio -class ballistic missile submarine is expected to be retired in 2029, meaning that the first replacement submarine should be in service by that time. the u.s. navy has initiated the design process for the new class of submarine, and we have begun design work as a subcontractor to electric boat. at this time, construction is expected to begin in 2019, with the procurement of long-lead-time materials in 2015. the current fiscal environment and uncertainty in defense budgets may delay the start of construction, or result in a reduction in the number of ships being procured, but we believe the ssbn(x) ohio -class submarine replacement program may represent a significant opportunity for us in the future. energy our doe and commercial nuclear programs leverage our core competencies in nuclear operations, program management and heavy manufacturing. we selectively partner with experienced industry leaders, and we are a participant in one active joint venture. we are also able, through our subsidiary newport news industrial corporation ( nni ), to provide a range of services to the energy and petrochemical industries as well as government customers. savannah river nuclear solutions, llc ( srns ) in january 2008, srns, our joint venture with fluor corporation and honeywell international inc., was awarded a five-year $4 billion contract for site management and operations of the doe savannah river site located 12 miles south of aiken, south carolina. work at the site includes management of a national laboratory and the cleanup of nuclear waste, both newly generated and backlogged and legacy wastes that exist at various facilities throughout the savannah river site. as part of the american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009, srns was awarded a stimulus contract of $1.4 billion to deactivate and remediate several reactors and sites at the savannah river site. we have a 34% ownership stake in srns. areva newport news, llc ( areva newport news ) in october 2008, we announced the formation of a joint venture, areva newport news, with areva np to build a new manufacturing facility in newport news, virginia to supply heavy components to the civilian nuclear electrical power sector. areva newport news plans to construct a production facility for the manufacture of heavy commercial nuclear power plant components. we are minority owners of areva newport news. newport news industrial corporation ( nni ) nni provides a range of support services to operating commercial nuclear power plants. in the 45 years since it was founded, nni has expanded its capabilities, continuing to provide support for nuclear energy facilities, as well as for fossil power 3 table of contents plants and other industrial facilities. nni focuses on fabrication services, construction services, equipment services, technical services and product sales to its customers, which include both private industry as well as government entities such as the national aeronautics and space administration ( nasa ), the doe and the dod. ingalls through our ingalls operations, we design and construct non-nuclear ships for the u.s. navy and u.s. coast guard, including amphibious assault ships, surface combatants and national security cutters. we are the sole supplier of amphibious assault ships to the u.s. navy and built 28 of the 62-ship ddg-51 arleigh burke -class of aegis guided missile destroyers in active service. we are also the sole supplier of the large multi-mission national security cutters for the u.s. coast guard. our ingalls shipbuilding sites are located in pascagoula, mississippi, gulfport, mississippi, and avondale, louisiana. we intend to wind down our construction activities at avondale in 2013 and consolidate all ingalls construction into our mississippi facilities. during 2011, we closed and terminated our lease on a components facility in tallulah, louisiana and ceased significant operations at a facility in waggaman, louisiana. we are exploring alternative uses of the avondale facility, including alternative opportunities for our workforce. our various ingalls facilities offer a collection of manufacturing capabilities such as a 660-ton gantry crane, a shipbuilding facility focused on composite research and engineering and a land based test facility. amphibious assault ships we are the sole provider of amphibious assault and expeditionary warfare ships to the u.s. navy. those ships include the u.s. navy large deck amphibious ships ( lha ), amphibious transport dock ships ( lpd ) and multi-purpose amphibious assault ships ( lhd ). the lha is a key component of the u.s. navy-marine corps requirement for 11 expeditionary strike groups/amphibious readiness groups, and design, construction and modernization of lhas are core to our ingalls operations. in 2009, construction of lhd-1 wasp -class multipurpose amphibious assault ships concluded with the delivery of lhd-8 uss makin island . in 2007, we were awarded the construction contract for lha-6 america , the first in a new class of enhanced amphibious assault ships designed from the keel up to be an aviation optimized marine assault platform. the first ship of the lha-6 america -class is currently under construction, and we expect to deliver it in 2013. we are currently procuring long-lead-time material for lha-7 under a contract awarded in 2010. the balance of funding for lha-7 was included in the fiscal year 2012 omnibus appropriations act. the lpd program is one of two ingalls long-run production programs, where we have an opportunity to take advantage of cost reductions resulting from ship-over-ship learning. we are currently constructing four lpd-17 san antonio -class amphibious transport dock ships: lpd-24 arlington scheduled for delivery in 2012, and lpd-26 john p. murtha scheduled for delivery in 2016, in our pascagoula, mississippi shipyard, and lpd-23 anchorage scheduled for delivery in 2012, and lpd-25 somerset scheduled for delivery in 2013, in our avondale shipyard. we delivered lpd-22 san diego in 2011. long-lead-time material contract work for lpd-27 (unnamed) was awarded to us in october 2010, and funding to construct lpd-27 was included in the fiscal year 2012 omnibus appropriations act. we intend to construct lpd-27 in our pascagoula, mississippi facility. as we complete work on lpd-23 anchorage and lpd-25 somerset , we intend to wind down our construction activities at avondale in 2013 and consolidate all ingalls construction in our mississippi facilities. during 2011, we closed and terminated the lease on a components facility in tallulah, louisiana and ceased significant operations at a facility in waggaman, louisiana. we believe that this consolidation will decrease our ingalls shipbuilding fixed overhead expenses, provide improved facility utilization and a more cost-efficient construction process, centralize our shipbuilding learning and increase the benefits of serial production. we believe that consolidation of operations in pascagoula and gulfport will reduce program costs on existing contracts and make future vessels more affordable, thereby enhancing our competitive positions. surface combatants we are a design agent for and one of only two companies that constructs the ddg-51 arleigh burke -class guided missile destroyers as well as major components for the ddg-1000 zumwalt -class of land attack destroyers. we have delivered 28 ddg-51 arleigh burke -class destroyers to the u.s. navy, including ddg-107 uss gravely in july 2010 and ddg-110 william p. lawrence in february 2011. our participation in the ddg-1000 zumwalt -class destroyers program includes detailed design and construction of the ships integrated composite deckhouses, as well as portions of the ships aft peripheral vertical launch systems. the u.s. navy expects to build three ddg-1000 zumwalt -class destroyers. we are currently 4 table of contents constructing the composite superstructure of ddg-1000 zumwalt and ddg-1001 michael monsoor at our gulfport, mississippi shipyard, which focuses on composite research, engineering and construction. we are currently procuring long-lead-time material for the ddg-1002 under a contract awarded in 2011. the u.s. navy has decided to restart the ddg-51 arleigh burke -class destroyer production line and truncate the ddg-1000 zumwalt -class program. as a result, we are currently under contract to construct ddg-113 john finn scheduled for delivery in 2016, and were recently awarded a construction contract for ddg-114 ralph johnson scheduled for delivery in 2017. national security cutter ( nsc ) the u.s. coast guard deepwater modernization program is designed to replace aging and operationally expensive ships and aircraft used to conduct missions in excess of 50 miles from the shoreline. the flagship of this program is the nsc, a multi-mission platform designed and built by us. the u.s. coast guard ordered the first three nsc vessels from integrated coast guard systems ( icgs ), a joint venture between lockheed martin and us, pursuant to an indefinite delivery/indefinite quantity ( idiq ) contract for the deepwater modernization program. the first national security cutter, nsc-1 uscgc bertholf , was delivered to the u.s. coast guard in 2008, followed by nsc-2 uscgc waesche in 2009 and nsc-3 uscgc stratton in 2011. the construction contract for nsc-4 hamilton was awarded directly to ingalls in november 2010, and construction began in 2011. the construction contract for nsc-5 was awarded directly to ingalls in september 2011. the fiscal year 2012 homeland security appropriations act includes funding to procure long-lead-time material for nsc-6. fleet support: amsec and continental maritime of san diego ( cmsd ) fleet support provides comprehensive life cycle services, including depot maintenance, modernization, repairs, logistics and technical support and planning yard services for naval and commercial vessels through our amsec and cmsd subsidiaries. we have ship repair facilities in newport news, virginia, and san diego, california, which are near the u.s. navy largest homeports of norfolk, virginia and san diego, respectively. amsec provides naval architecture and marine engineering, ship system assessments, maintenance engineering and logistics services to the u.s. navy and commercial maritime industry from 28 locations nationwide and overseas. on any given day, over 600 of our amsec employees are on board u.s. navy ships, assessing equipment conditions, modernizing systems and training sailors. through cmsd, a master ship repair contractor, we provide ship repair, regular overhaul and selected restricted availability services (pier side or in customer dry docks) for the u.s. navy. we also perform emergent repair for the u.s. navy on all classes of ships. corporate huntington ingalls industries, inc. was incorporated in delaware on august 4, 2010. our principal executive offices are located at 4101 washington avenue, newport news, virginia 23607. our telephone number is (757) 380-2000, and our home page on the internet is www.huntingtoningalls.com . references to our website in this report are provided as a convenience and do not constitute, and should not be viewed as, incorporation by reference of the information contained on, or available through, the website. accordingly, such information should not be considered part of this report. summary segment financial data for a more complete understanding of our segment financial information, see segment operating results in item 7 and note 6: segment information in item 8. customers revenues from the u.s. government accounted for substantially all of our total revenues in 2011, 2010 and 2009. in 2011, approximately 97% of our revenues were generated from the u.s. navy and approximately 3% were generated from the u.s. coast guard. intellectual property with more than 5,100 engineers and designers, we develop and incorporate into our vessels new technologies, manufacturing processes and systems-integration practices. in addition to owning a large portfolio of proprietary intellectual property, we license some intellectual property rights to and from others. the u.s. government holds licenses to our patents developed in 5 table of contents the performance of u.s. government contracts, and it may use or authorize others to use the inventions covered by our patents. while our intellectual property rights are important to the operation of our business, we do not believe that any existing patent, license or other intellectual property right is of such importance that its loss or termination would have a material impact on our business. seasonality no material portion of our business is seasonal. the timing of our revenue recognition is based on several factors, including the timing of contract awards, the incurrence of contract costs, cost estimation, and unit deliveries. see critical accounting policies, estimates and judgments revenue recognition in item 7. backlog at december 31, 2011, our total backlog was $16.3 billion compared with $17.3 billion at the end of 2010. approximately 33% of backlog at december 31, 2011, is expected to be converted into sales in 2012. total backlog includes both funded backlog (firm orders for which funding is contractually obligated by the customer) and unfunded backlog (firm orders for which funding is not currently contractually obligated by the customer). unfunded backlog excludes unexercised contract options and unfunded idiq orders. for contracts having no stated contract values, backlog includes only the amounts committed by the customer. backlog is converted into sales as work is performed or deliveries are made. for backlog by segment, see backlog in item 7. raw materials the most significant raw material we use is steel. other materials used in large quantities include paint, aluminum, pipe, electrical cable and fittings. all of these materials are currently available in adequate supply. in connection with our government contracts, we are required to procure certain materials and component parts from supply sources approved by the u.s. government. generally, for all of our long-term contracts, we obtain price quotations for many of our materials requirements from multiple suppliers to ensure competitive pricing. we have not generally been dependent upon any one supply source; however, due largely to the consolidation of the defense industry, there are currently several components for which there is only one supplier. we believe that these single source suppliers, as well as our overall supplier base, are adequate to meet our future needs. we have mitigated some supply risk by negotiating long-term agreements with a number of raw material suppliers. in addition, we have mitigated price risk related to raw material purchases through certain arrangements included in our customer contracts. research and development to foster innovative product development and evolution, we conduct research and development activities as part of our normal business operations. our research and development activities primarily include independent research and development ( ir&amp;d ) efforts related to government programs. in accordance with u.s government regulations, we recover a significant portion of our ir&amp;d expenditures through overhead charges to u.s. government contracts. we include ir&amp;d expenses in general and administrative expenses. company-sponsored ir&amp;d expenses totaled $24 million, $23 million and $21 million for the years ended december 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. at our virginia advanced shipbuilding and carrier integration center facility ( vascic ), located in newport news, virginia, we conduct on-site warfare systems testing, training and laboratory research for the next generation aircraft carriers, submarines and other ships. vascic serves as the focal point for the integration of ship systems and the application of new technologies. it has a classified facility and an integration area that allows for research and development related to setup and testing of electronics as well as hull, mechanical and electrical systems prior to introducing new equipment on board a ship. it also has modeling and simulation capability allowing for visualization using 3-d displays. we believe vascic benefits the u.s. navy and represents a competitive advantage for us by developing future naval capabilities, reducing total ownership cost and facilitating technology transfer. 6 table of contents governmental regulation and supervision our business is affected by a variety of laws and regulations relating to the award, administration and performance of u.s. government contracts. see risks related to our business in item 1a. we operate in a highly regulated environment and are routinely audited and reviewed by the u.s. government and its agencies, such as the u.s. navy supervisor of shipbuilding, the defense contract audit agency ( dcaa ) and the defense contract management agency ( dcma ). these agencies review our performance under our contracts, our cost structure and our compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards, as well as the adequacy of, and our compliance with, our internal control systems and policies. systems that are subject to review include but are not limited to our accounting systems, purchasing systems, billing systems, property management and control systems, cost estimating systems, earned value management systems, compensation systems and management information systems. any costs we incur that are found to be unallowable or improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed or must be refunded if already reimbursed. if an audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties as well as administrative sanctions, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension, or prohibition from doing business with the u.s. government. the u.s. government also has the ability to decrease or withhold payments when it deems systems subject to its review to be inadequate. as contracts subject to new contractor business systems rules are awarded, withholdings may occur in the future if the u.s. government makes a final determination of one or more significant deficiencies in one or more of such systems. in addition, the u.s. government generally has the ability to terminate contracts, in whole or in part, with little to no prior notice, for convenience or for default based on performance. in the event of termination for the government convenience, contractors are normally protected by provisions covering reimbursement for costs incurred on the contracts and profit on those costs, but not for the anticipated profit that would have been earned had the contract been completed. termination resulting from our default could expose us to various liabilities, including, but not limited to, excess reprocurement costs, and could have a material effect on our ability to compete for future contracts. in 2009, congress passed legislation to improve the organization and procedures of the dod for the acquisition of major weapons systems, including shipbuilding and maritime systems. this legislation, the weapon system acquisition reform act of 2009, requires the dod to develop mechanisms to address cost, schedule and performance in establishing program requirements. as acquisition reform progresses, we will continue to anticipate and respond to the actions of the pentagon and congress to determine their impact on our operations. government contractors must comply with a significant volume of procurement regulations and other requirements. contracting with the u.s. government may result in our filing of requests for equitable adjustments ( reas ), which represent requests for the u.s. government to make appropriate adjustments to terms of a contract including pricing, delivery schedule, technical requirements or other affected terms, due to changes in the original contract requirements and resulting delays and disruption in contract performance for which the u.s. government is responsible. reas are prepared, submitted and negotiated in the ordinary course of business, and large reas are not uncommon at the conclusion of both new construction and overhaul activities. such reas are not considered claims under the contract disputes act of 1978, although they may be converted to such claims if good faith negotiations are unproductive. in cases where there are multiple suppliers, contracts for the construction and conversion of u.s. navy ships and submarines are generally subject to competitive bidding. in evaluating proposed prices, the u.s. navy sometimes requires that each bidder submit information on pricing, estimated costs of completion and anticipated profit margins in order to assess cost realism. the u.s. navy uses this information and other data to determine an estimated cost for each bidder. under u.s. government regulations, certain costs, including certain financing costs and marketing expenses, are not allowable contract costs. the u.s. government also regulates the methods by which all costs, including overhead, are allocated to government contracts. our contracts with various agencies of the u.s. government and our subcontracts with other prime contractors are subject to additional procurement regulations that include, but are not limited to, the truth in negotiations act, the procurement integrity act, the false claims act, cost accounting standards, the international traffic in arms regulations promulgated under the arms export control act, the close the contractor fraud loophole act and the foreign corrupt practices act. noncompliance found by any one agency may result in fines, penalties, debarment or suspension from receiving additional contracts with all u.s. government agencies. 7 table of contents competition we primarily compete with general dynamics and to a lesser extent with smaller shipyards, one or more of whom may be teamed with a large defense contractor. intense competition related to programs, resources and funding, and long operating cycles are key characteristics of both our business and the shipbuilding defense industry in general. it is common in this industry to share work on major programs among a number of companies. a company competing to be a prime contractor may, upon ultimate award of the contract to another party, become a subcontractor for the prime contracting party. it is not uncommon to compete for a contract award with a peer company and, simultaneously, perform as a supplier to or a customer of such competitor on other contracts. the nature of major defense programs, conducted under binding contracts, allows companies that perform well to benefit from a level of program continuity not common in many industries. we believe we are well-positioned in the market. because we are the only company currently capable of building, refueling and defueling the u.s. navy nuclear-powered aircraft carriers, we believe we are in a strong competitive position to be awarded any contracts to perform such activities. even so, the government periodically revisits whether refueling of nuclear-powered aircraft carriers should be performed in private or public facilities. in this regard, the fiscal year 2012 national defense authorization act ( 2012 act ) requires dod to develop a core depot level maintenance capability to refuel nuclear aircraft carriers. the 2012 act, however, permits the secretary of defense to waive the requirement for dod to develop a refueling capability, if fulfilling the requirement would not be economically feasible. we are currently the only builder of large deck amphibious assault and expeditionary warfare ships for the u.s. navy, including lhas and lpds, and are positioned to be awarded future contracts for these types of vessels. we are also the sole supplier of national security cutters for the u.s. coast guard, and are positioned to be awarded future contracts for these types of vessels. we are one of only two companies currently designing and building nuclear-powered submarines for the u.s. navy and one of only two companies that builds the u.s. navy current fleet of ddg-51 arleigh burke -class destroyers. we are positioned to be awarded future contracts for these types of ships as well. our success in the shipbuilding defense industry depends upon our ability to develop, market and produce our products and services at a cost consistent with the u.s. navy budget, as well as our ability to provide the people, technologies, facilities, equipment and financial capacity needed to deliver those products and services with maximum efficiency. environmental, health and safety our manufacturing operations are subject to and affected by federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. we accrue the estimated costs to complete environmental remediation when we determine it is probable that we will incur such costs in the future in amounts we can reasonably estimate to address environmental conditions at currently or formerly owned or leased operating facilities, or at sites where we are named a potentially responsible party ( prp ) by the u.s. environmental protection agency ( epa ) or similarly designated by another environmental agency. these estimates may change given the inherent difficulty in estimating environmental cleanup costs to be incurred in the future caused by the uncertainties regarding the extent of the required cleanup, determination of legally responsible parties, and the status of laws, regulations and their interpretations. we assess the potential impact on our financial statements by estimating the range of reasonably possible remediation costs that we could incur on a site-by-site basis, taking into account currently available facts on each site as well as the current state of technology and prior experience in remediating contaminated sites. we review our estimates periodically and adjust them to reflect changes in facts and technical and legal circumstances. we record accruals for environmental cleanup costs in the accounting period in which it becomes probable we have incurred a liability and the costs can be reasonably estimated. we record insurance recoveries only when we determine that collection is probable and we do not include any litigation costs related to environmental matters in our environmental remediation accrual. we estimate that, as of december 31, 2011, the probable future costs for environmental remediation is approximately $3 million, which is accrued in other current liabilities in the consolidated statement of financial position. we record environmental accruals on an undiscounted basis. at sites involving multiple parties, we provide environmental accruals based upon our expected share of liability, taking into account the financial viability of other jointly liable parties. we expense or capitalize environmental expenditures as appropriate. capitalized expenditures relate to long-lived improvements in currently operating facilities. we may have to incur costs exceeding those already estimated and accrued if other prps do not pay their allocable share of remediation costs, which could have a material effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. we have made the investments we believe are necessary to comply with environmental 8 table of contents laws. although we cannot predict whether information gained as projects progress will materially affect the estimated accrued liability, we do not anticipate that future remediation expenditures will have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. we may incur environmental costs in the future related to the wind down of our construction activities at avondale. due to insufficient information about the nature, timing and extent of any potential environmental remediation and costs that we may incur, these costs are not reasonably estimable at this time. accordingly, potential environmental costs associated with the wind down of our construction activities at avondale are not included in the estimated $3 million of probable future costs for environmental remediation, in the $271 million estimate of avondale asset write-downs and restructuring related costs, or otherwise reflected in our consolidated financial statements. based on the federal acquisition regulations ( far ), we expect that a significant portion of any potential future environmental costs we incur at avondale would be recoverable consistent with government accounting practices. we believe that we are in material compliance with all applicable environmental regulations, and historical environmental compliance costs have not been material to our business. we could be affected by future laws or regulations, including those enacted in response to climate change concerns and other actions known as green initiatives . we expect to incur capital and operating costs to comply with current and future environmental laws and regulations. at this time, however, we do not believe such costs will have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. with regard to occupational health and safety, the shipbuilding and ship repair industry involves work with many hazardous materials and processes, and remains one of the most hazardous industry segments. according to the bureau of labor statistics, the shipbuilding and ship repair industry (naics 336611) ranks among the highest in several injury metrics. nevertheless, in terms of serious injuries at our operations, there have been five industrial related fatalities in the past seven years. our internal audit program seeks to ensure that our occupational safety &amp; health administration ( osha ) compliance programs remain strong. in 1995, our newport news shipyard became the first shipyard to be awarded the star award from osha voluntary protection program ( osha vpp ). to earn this award, we joined efforts with our unions and supported participation in the osha vpp, in which all parties assist each other to make our shipyard a safer place to work. since then, our gulfport, mississippi and continental maritime of san diego, california facilities have also been certified as osha vpp star sites. additionally, our avondale facility has been certified as an osha vpp merit site. the nuclear regulatory commission, the doe and the dod regulate and control various matters relating to nuclear materials we handle. subject to certain requirements and limitations, our government contracts generally provide for indemnity by the u.s. government for costs resulting from our nuclear operations. employees we have approximately 38,000 employees. we are the largest industrial employer in virginia and the largest private employer in mississippi. our workforce contains many third-, fourth- and fifth-generation shipbuilding employees. we employ individuals specializing in 19 crafts and trades, including more than 5,100 engineers and designers and more than 1,600 employees with advanced degrees. employees who have been with us or our predecessor companies for over 40 years achieve the title of master shipbuilder. as of december 31, 2011, we had 975 master shipbuilders, 676 in newport news and 299 at ingalls. we employ nearly 5,500 veterans. our newport news apprentice school trains approximately 750 apprentices each year in 19 crafts and trades and several advanced programs. our ingalls apprentice school currently has approximately 362 registered apprentices in its programs. apprentices are paid as full-time employees for the duration of their studies, and usually continue to work with us upon graduation. from nuclear pipe welders to senior executives, approximately 2,850 alumni of the apprentice school at newport news and approximately 1,890 alumni of our ingalls apprentice school continue to work with us. approximately 50% of our employees are covered by a total of 10 collective bargaining agreements. we expect to renegotiate each of our collective bargaining agreements between 2013 and 2015 as they approach expiration. we do not expect the results of these negotiations to have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. we believe that our relationship with our employees is satisfactory. available information our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, and current reports on form 8-k, as well as any amendments to those reports, are available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we file 9 table of contents them with the securities and exchange commission ( sec ). you can learn more about us by reviewing our sec filings in the investor relations page on our website at www.huntingtoningalls.com . the sec also maintains a website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy statements and other information about sec registrants, including us. executive officers of the registrant see executive officers of the registrant in item 4a for information about our executive officers. forward-looking statements statements in this annual report on form 10-k, other than statements of historical fact, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in these statements. factors that may cause such differences include: changes in government and customer priorities and requirements (including government budgetary constraints, shifts in defense spending, and changes in customer short-range and long-range plans); our ability to obtain new contracts, estimate our costs and perform effectively; risks related to our spin-off from northrop grumman (including our increased costs and leverage); our ability to realize the expected benefits from consolidation of our ingalls facilities; natural disasters; adverse economic conditions in the united states and globally; and other risk factors discussed herein and in our filings with the sec. there may be other risks and uncertainties that we are unable to predict at this time or that we currently do not expect to have a material adverse effect on our business, and we undertake no obligations to update any forward-looking statements. 10 table of contents item 1a. risk factors an investment in our common stock or debt securities involves risks and uncertainties. we seek to identify, manage, and mitigate risks to our business, but risk and uncertainty cannot be eliminated or necessarily predicted. you should consider the following factors carefully, in addition to the other information contained in this annual report on form 10-k, before deciding to purchase our securities. risks related to our business we depend heavily on a single customer, the u.s. government, for substantially all of our business, and changes affecting this customer ability to do business with us could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. our business is primarily dependent upon the design, construction, repair, maintenance, fleet support and life cycle services of nuclear-powered ships, such as aircraft carriers and submarines, and non-nuclear ships, such as surface combatants and expeditionary warfare and amphibious assault ships for the u.s. navy and coastal defense surface ships for the u.s. coast guard, as well as the overhaul and refueling of nuclear-powered ships for the u.s. navy. substantially all of our revenues during 2011 were derived from products and services ultimately sold to the u.s. government, and we expect this to continue in the future. in addition, substantially all of our backlog was u.s. government related as of december 31, 2011. we are a supplier, either directly or as a subcontractor or team member, to the u.s. government and its agencies. the related contracts are subject to various risks, including our customers political and budgetary constraints and processes, changes in customers short-range and long-range strategic plans, the timing of contract awards, significant changes in contract scheduling, intense contract and funding competition, difficulty in forecasting costs and schedules when bidding on developmental and highly sophisticated technical work, delays in the timing of contract approval, and contractor suspension or debarment in the event of certain violations of legal or regulatory requirements. any of these factors could affect our ability to do business with the u.s. government, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. contracts with the u.s. government are subject to uncertain levels of funding, modification due to changes in customer priorities and potential termination. we are directly dependent upon congressional allocation of defense monies to the u.s. navy and the u.s. coast guard. the funding of u.s. government programs is subject to congressional budget authorization and appropriation processes. for certain programs, congress appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis even though a program may be performed over several fiscal years. consequently, programs may be partially funded initially and additional funds are committed only as congress makes further appropriations. we cannot predict the extent to which total funding and/or funding for individual programs will be included, increased or reduced as part of the fiscal year 2013 budget and subsequent budgets ultimately approved by congress or will be included in the scope of separate supplemental appropriations. the impact, severity and duration of the current u.s. economic downturn and pressures on the federal budget could also adversely affect the total funding and/or funding for individual programs. the level of future appropriations for defense programs has become more uncertain, following the debt ceiling crisis in august 2011 and the failure of a joint committee of congress to identify up to $1.5 trillion in deficit reductions in november 2011, as required under the budget control act of 2011. as a result of such failure, up to $600 billion in automatic spending cuts to defense programs could be triggered under the budget control act beginning in 2013, or cuts could be effected through other congressional actions, which could result in the cancellation of or decreased funding for our existing programs and/or a lack of funding for future programs. the budget control act provided for $487 billion of defense cuts over the next decade, and the $600 billion of sequestration cuts would be added to that amount. in the event that appropriations for any of our existing or future programs become unavailable, or are reduced or delayed, our contracts or subcontracts under such programs may be terminated or adjusted by the u.s. government, which could have a material adverse effect on our future sales under such programs, and on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. we also cannot predict the impact of potential changes in priorities due to military transformation and planning and/or the nature of war related activity on existing, follow-on or replacement programs. a shift of government priorities to programs in which we do not participate and/or reductions in funding for or the termination of programs in which we do participate, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 11 table of contents in addition, the u.s. government generally has the ability to terminate contracts, in whole or in part, with little to no prior notice, for convenience or for default based on performance. in the event of termination for the u.s. government convenience, contractors are normally protected by provisions covering reimbursement for costs incurred on the contracts and profit related to those costs but not the anticipated profit that would have been earned had the contract been completed. however, such a termination could result in the cancelation of future work on that program. termination resulting from our default can expose us to various liabilities, including excess reprocurement costs, and could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete for contracts. any termination can also have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. contract cost growth on fixed price and other contracts that cannot be justified as an increase in contract value due from customers exposes us to reduced profitability and to the potential loss of future business. our operating income is adversely affected when we incur certain contract costs or certain increases in contract costs that cannot be billed to customers. this cost growth can occur if estimates to complete a contract increase due to technical challenges, manufacturing difficulties, delays, workforce related issues, or if initial estimates used for calculating the contract cost were inaccurate. the cost estimation process requires significant judgment and expertise. reasons for cost growth may include unavailability or reduced productivity of labor, the nature and complexity of the work to be performed, the timelines and availability of materials, major subcontractor performance and quality of their products, the effect of any delays in performance, availability and timing of funding from the customer, natural disasters and the inability to recover claims included in the estimates to complete. a significant increase in contract costs from our original cost estimates on one or more programs could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. our ability to recover the costs we incur and realize profits on contracts with our u.s. government customer depends on the type of contract under which we are performing. our u.s. government business is currently performed under firm fixed price ( ffp ), fixed price incentive ( fpi ), cost plus incentive fee ( cpif ), cost plus fixed fee ( cpff ) and cost plus award fee ( cpaf ) contracts. under ffp contracts, we retain all costs savings on completed contracts but are liable for the full amount of all expenditures in excess of the contract price. fpi contracts, on the other hand, are flexibly priced arrangements under which overruns and underruns to an agreed target cost are shared between the u.s. government and us. the u.s. government is liable for its share of allowable costs up to a ceiling price, and we are responsible for all costs incurred in excess of such ceiling price, typically 125 135% of target cost. our profit varies according to a formula set forth in the contract that generally compares the amount of costs incurred to the contract target cost. under cpif, cpff and cpaf contracts, we are generally only required to perform the contract to the extent the u.s. government makes funds available, and we recover all allowable costs incurred in the performance of the contract. under cpif contracts, our profit is determined by a contractually specified formula that compares allowable incurred costs to the contract target cost, subject in some instances to a maximum or minimum fee percentage. under cpff contracts, the dollar amount of profit received is the same without regard to the amount of costs incurred. under cpaf contracts, the dollar amount of profit received is determined by the award fee provisions in the contract. in 2011, approximately 45% of newport news revenues were cpif, which primarily included aircraft carrier construction and rcoh. approximately 27% of newport news 2011 revenues were fpi contracts, consisting primarily of submarine construction, 26% of revenues were cpff contracts, 1% were cpaf and 1% were ffp. approximately 73% of ingalls revenues were fpi, 13% were cpaf, 9% were cpff, 3% were cpif and 2% were ffp. to the extent our mix of contract types change in the future, our ability to recover our costs and realize profits on our contracts can be negatively affected. our earnings and margins depend, in part, on our ability to perform under contracts, subcontractor performance and raw materials and component availability and pricing. when agreeing to contract terms, we make assumptions and projections about future conditions and events, many of which extend over long periods. these projections assess the productivity and availability of labor, the complexity of the work to be performed, the cost and availability of materials, the impact of delayed performance and the timing of product deliveries. we may experience significant variances from our assumptions, delays in our contract performance and variances in the timing of our product deliveries. if actual events differ significantly from one or more of our assumptions, projections or estimates, or if we face unanticipated contract costs, the profitability of one or more of these contracts may be adversely affected. we rely on other companies to provide raw materials and major components for our products, and we rely on subcontractors to produce hardware elements and sub-assemblies and perform certain services that we provide to our customers. disruptions or performance problems caused by our suppliers and subcontractors could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our 12 table of contents commitments to customers. our ability to perform our obligations as a prime contractor could be adversely affected if one or more of our suppliers or subcontractors are unable to provide the agreed-upon products or materials or perform the agreed-upon services in a timely and cost-effective manner. all major materials, parts and components for our products are currently available in adequate supply from domestic and/or foreign sources. through the cost escalation provisions contained in some of our u.s. government contracts, we may be protected from increases in material costs to the extent that the increases in our costs are in line with industry indices. even with these provisions, however, the difference in basis between our actual material costs and these indices may expose us to cost uncertainty. a significant delay in deliveries of key raw materials could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. in connection with our government contracts, we are required to procure certain materials and component parts from supply sources approved by the u.s. government. due largely to the consolidation of the defense industry, there are currently certain components for which there is only one supplier. the inability of a sole source supplier to meet our needs could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. our results of operations depend on the award of new contracts. the prospects of u.s. shipyards, including ours, can be materially affected by their success in securing significant u.s. navy contract awards. in february 2010, the dod issued its report of the quadrennial defense review ( qdr ), a legislatively mandated review of military strategy and priorities that shapes defense funding over the ensuing four years. the u.s. navy relied on the force requirements set forth in the qdr to design its 2012 shipbuilding plan, which applied the goals and strategies set forth in the qdr to identify the naval capabilities projected to meet the defense challenges faced by the united states in the next three decades. the 2012 shipbuilding plan uses, as a baseline, a 328-ship force, up from the former 313-ship force that was first proposed by the u.s. navy to congress in 2006. of the 328-ship force, the 2012 shipbuilding plan currently anticipates procurement of 275 ships during the next 30 years. in response to the plan to cut $487 billion of defense spending over the next decade, as provided in the budget control act of 2011, the dod released in january 2012 a revised comprehensive military strategy that seeks to address the reduced funding. the u.s. navy has indicated it will complete a new force structure assessment by the end of 2012 that will address the number of ships and other weapons the u.s. navy believes it will need in light of the new national security strategy. any significant reduction from the 2012 shipbuilding plan and a resulting reduction in the number of ships procured by the u.s. navy would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. we believe that our shipbuilding programs are a high priority for national defense, but, under budgetary pressures, one or more of our programs may be reduced, extended or terminated by our u.s. government customers. specific actions already taken that could negatively affect us include the deferral of production of new maritime prepositioning ships, the reduction in the number of planned large surface combatants and an increase in the procurement interval for aircraft carriers to five years. in response to the need for cheaper alternatives and the proliferation of smart weapons, it is possible that future strategy reassessments by the dod may result in a decreased need for aircraft carriers. for the year ended december 31, 2011, aircraft carrier construction and design engineering accounted for approximately 38% of our consolidated revenue. significant reductions in the level of congressional appropriations for our shipbuilding programs or significant delays of such appropriations would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. the department of defense has announced plans for significant changes to its business practices that could have a material effect on its overall procurement process and adversely impact our current programs and potential new awards. in november 2010, the dod announced certain initiatives designed to gain efficiencies, refocus priorities and enhance business practices used by the dod, including those used to procure goods and services from defense contractors. these initiatives are organized in five major areas: affordability and cost growth; productivity and innovation; competition; services acquisition; and processes and bureaucracy. our understanding is that these initiatives are intended to drive down costs and enhance efficiencies and productivity. as described by a senior dod official, they are intended to enable the dod to do more without more. these initiatives are expected to impact the contracting environment in which we do business with our dod customers as we and others in the industry adjust our practices to address the new initiatives and the reduced level of spending by the dod. we are taking steps internally to assess how we can respond to and support these changes, including how we can further 13 table of contents reduce costs and increase productivity, modify how we respond to proposals and revise our areas of focus. depending on how these initiatives are implemented, they could have an impact on current programs, as well as new business opportunities. our future success depends, in part, on our ability to deliver our products and services at an affordable life cycle cost, requiring us to have and maintain technologies, facilities, equipment and a qualified workforce to meet the needs of current and future customers. shipbuilding is a long cycle business, and our success depends on quality, cost and schedule performance on our contracts. we must have and sustain the people, technologies, facilities, equipment and financial capacity needed to deliver our products and services at an affordable life cycle cost. if we fail to maintain our competitive position, we could lose a significant amount of future business to our competitors, which would have a material adverse effect on our ability to maintain market share and our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. our operating results are heavily dependent upon our ability to attract and retain a sufficient number of engineers and skilled workers, at competitive costs, with requisite skills and/or security clearances. at the same time, stable future revenues and costs are important for us to maintain a qualified workforce. the necessary nuclear expertise required and the challenges of hiring and training a qualified workforce can be a limitation on our business. if qualified personnel become scarce, we could experience higher labor, recruiting or training costs in order to attract and retain such employees or difficulty in performing under our contracts or pursuing new business if the needs for such employees are unmet. competition within our markets and an increase in bid protests may reduce our revenues and market share. we believe the programs and number of ship constructions, refuelings and overhauls and inactivations currently planned by the u.s. navy over the next several years will remain relatively steady; however, projected u.s. defense spending levels for periods beyond the near-term are uncertain and difficult to predict. while the u.s. navy current 2012 shipbuilding plan is based on an optimized 328-ship force, the plan itself anticipates procurement of only 275 ships during the 30-year period. moreover, the 275 ship force is currently under reassessment and may be reduced. reductions in u.s. defense spending that reduce the demand for the types of ships we build and services we provide increase our risk exposure to market competition. if we are unable to continue to compete successfully against our current or future competitors, we may experience declines in revenues and market share, which would negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. although we are the only company currently capable of refueling nuclear-powered carriers, we believe that two existing government-owned shipyards, one in the u.s. pacific northwest and the other in the u.s. mid-atlantic, could refuel nuclear-powered carriers if substantial investments in facilities, personnel and training were made. u.s. government-owned shipyards are presently involved in refueling, overhaul and inactivation of ssn-688 los angeles -class submarines and are capable of repairing and overhauling non-nuclear ships. the 2012 act requires dod to develop a core depot level maintenance capability to refuel nuclear aircraft carriers. the 2012 act, however, permits the secretary of defense to waive the requirement for dod to develop a refueling capability, if fulfilling the requirement would not be economically feasible. if the secretary does not grant a waiver and a government-owned shipyard were to become capable and engaged in the business of refueling nuclear-powered aircraft carriers, our financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. we also compete in the engineering, planning and design market with other companies that provide engineering support services. there can be no assurance that we will be the successful bidder on future u.s. navy engineering work, including aircraft carrier research and development, submarine design and future surface combatant, and amphibious assault programs. the competitive environment is also affected by bid protests from unsuccessful bidders on new program awards. as the competitive environment intensifies, the number of bid protests may increase. bid protests could result in an award decision being overturned, requiring a re-bid of the contract. even when a bid protest does not result in a re-bid, the resolution typically extends the time until the contract activity can begin, which may reduce our earnings in the period in which the contract would otherwise have commenced. overcapacity in the u.s. shipbuilding market may reduce our market share or our ability to secure contract awards at profitable prices. the reduced level of shipbuilding activity by the u.s. navy, evidenced by the reduction in fleet size from 566 ships in 1989 to 285 ships as of june 10, 2011, has resulted in workforce reductions in the industry but little infrastructure consolidation. 14 table of contents the general result has been fewer contracts awarded to the same fixed number of shipyards. there are principally six major private u.s. shipyards, three of which are our shipyards, plus numerous other smaller private shipyards that compete for contracts to construct, overhaul, repair or convert naval vessels. we have announced our intention to cease all shipbuilding operations in our louisiana facilities and anticipate complete closure of these facilities by the end of 2013. competition for future programs is expected to be intense. additionally, our products, such as aircraft carriers, submarines and other ships, compete with each other as well as with other defense products and services for defense monies. we cannot guarantee that there will not be some future rationalization of shipyard capacity in the united states and that we will not be subject to shipyard consolidation or closures as a result of the reduced level of u.s. navy spending on the construction of its naval fleet. any further reduction could have a significant effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. as a u.s. government contractor, we are subject to substantial regulations and could be adversely affected by changes in regulations or any negative findings from a u.s. government audit or investigation. u.s. government contractors must comply with a variety of significant regulations, including procurement, nuclear and other requirements. these regulations and requirements, although customary in government contracts, increase our performance and compliance costs. our nuclear operations are subject to an enhanced regulatory environment, which mandates increased performance and compliance efforts and costs. if any such regulations or requirements change, our costs of complying with them could increase and reduce our margins. we operate in a highly regulated environment and are routinely audited and reviewed by the u.s. government and its various agencies, such as the u.s. navy supervisor of shipbuilding, the dcaa and the dcma. these agencies review our performance under our contracts, our cost structure and our compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and standards, as well as the adequacy of, and our compliance with, our internal control systems and policies. systems that are subject to review include, but are not limited to, our accounting systems, purchasing systems, billing systems, property management and control systems, cost estimating systems, compensation systems and management information systems. any costs we incur that are found to be unallowable or improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed or must be refunded if previously reimbursed. if an audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension, or prohibition from doing business with the u.s. government. we could also suffer serious reputational harm if allegations of impropriety were made against us. whether or not illegal activities are alleged, the u.s. government also has the ability to decrease or withhold certain payments when it deems systems subject to its review to be inadequate. as contracts subject to new contractor business systems rules are awarded, withholdings may occur in the future if the u.s. government makes a final determination of one or more significant deficiencies in one or more such systems. as with other government contractors, the u.s. government has, from time to time, recommended that certain of our contract prices be reduced, or that costs allocated to our contracts be disallowed. some of these recommendations involve substantial amounts. in the past, as a result of such audits and other investigations and inquiries, we have on occasion made minor adjustments to our contract prices and the costs allocated to our government contracts. we cannot guarantee that such audits, investigations and inquiries will not result in reductions of our contract prices in the future. we are also, from time to time, subject to u.s. government investigations relating to our operations, and we are subject to or are expected to perform in compliance with a vast array of federal laws, including, but not limited to, the truth in negotiations act, the false claims act, the procurement integrity act, cost accounting standards, the international traffic in arms regulations promulgated under the arms export control act, the close the contractor fraud loophole act and the foreign corrupt practices act. if we are convicted or otherwise found to have violated the law, or are found not to have acted responsibly as defined by the law, we may be subject to reductions of the value of contracts, contract modifications or termination, and the assessment of penalties and fines, compensatory or treble damages, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. such findings or convictions could also result in suspension or debarment from government contracting. given our dependence on government contracting, suspension or debarment would likely have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 15 table of contents many of our contracts contain performance obligations that require innovative design capabilities, are technologically complex, require manufacturing expertise or are dependent upon factors not wholly within our control, and failure to meet these obligations could adversely affect our profitability and future prospects. we design, develop and manufacture products and services applied by our customers in a variety of environments. problems and delays in development or delivery of subcontractor components or services as a result of issues with respect to design, technology, licensing and patent rights, labor, learning curve assumptions or materials and components could prevent us from achieving contractual requirements. first-in-class ships, also known as lead ships, usually have new technology that is supplied by the u.s. navy, other contractors, or us. problems in developing these new technologies or design changes later in the construction process can lead to delays in maintaining the design schedule needed for construction. the risk associated with new technology or mid-construction design changes can both increase the cost of a ship and delay delivery. for example, the new cvn-78 gerald r. ford -class has many new technologies, with several of them still in development. those technologies include, but are not limited to, the electromagnetic aircraft launch system ( emals ), the advanced arresting gear ( aag ) and the dual band radar ( dbr ). all three of these technologies are being developed concurrently with the ship under construction. late delivery of information could drive inefficiencies in the construction process, increase costs and put the delivery schedule at risk, which could adversely affect our profitability and future prospects. in addition, our products cannot be tested and proven in all situations and are otherwise subject to unforeseen problems. examples of unforeseen problems that could negatively affect revenues and profitability include premature failure of products that cannot be accessed for repair or replacement, problems with quality or workmanship and unplanned degradation of product performance. these failures could result, either directly or indirectly, in loss of life or property. unforeseen problems that may negatively affect our revenues and profits by causing unanticipated costs and expenses not covered by insurance or indemnification from the customer, diversion of management focus in responding to unforeseen problems, loss of follow-on work and, in the case of certain contracts, repayment to the government customer of contract cost and fee payments we previously received. in the past, we have experienced quality issues with respect to products and services that we sell to our u.s. government customer. these issues have required significant resources to analyze the source of the deficiencies and implement corrective actions. we may discover additional quality issues in the future related to our products and services that require analysis and corrective action. currently undiscovered quality issues that might arise in the future could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. see our results of operations depend on the award of new contracts . we may not realize the anticipated benefits or may incur additional costs related to the wind down of our construction activities at our louisiana facilities and the consolidation of all ingalls construction into our mississippi facilities. we have announced our intention to wind down our construction activities at avondale, our louisiana shipyard, in 2013 and two louisiana components facilities by 2013, after completing lpd-23 and lpd-25, the two lpd-17 san antonio -class ships currently under construction, and consolidate all ingalls construction into our mississippi facilities. we intend to shift future construction of lpd class ships to a single production line at our pascagoula, mississippi facility to reduce costs and increase efficiency. we cannot provide any assurances that consolidation of ingalls shipbuilding activities at our pascagoula and gulfport facilities will result in our realization of benefits from serial production at those facilities. in connection with the increased utilization of our employees and facilities in our pascagoula shipyard, we may encounter difficulties in adhering to back-to-back production schedules. an inability to adhere to production schedules could have an adverse effect on our ability to timely perform under our contracts and to obtain new contracts in the future. furthermore, because our ingalls workforce will be located primarily in pascagoula and gulfport, we may be unable to attract and retain a sufficient number of skilled and trained employees to perform the increased workload in these two locations. any failure to attract and retain the necessary workforce, or to effectively manage and control third-party contractors, could adversely affect our ability to perform under our contracts and have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. we anticipate that we will incur substantial restructuring related costs and asset write-downs, currently estimated at $271 million, related to the wind down of our operations at avondale. we believe that substantially all of the restructuring expenses associated with the wind down of those operations will be recoverable and amortized as future allowable costs over five years based upon applicable government regulations governing internal restructuring activities and/or other far allowable contract cost provisions. in a preliminary assessment of our proposed treatment of the wind down costs, the 16 table of contents u.s. navy voiced concerns regarding the allowability of selected elements of our restructuring proposal. the dcaa prepared an initial audit report on our cost recovery proposal, which stated that the proposal was not adequately supported for the dcaa to reach a conclusion and questioned approximately $25 million, or 8%, of the costs included in the proposal. we have submitted a revised proposal to address the concerns of the dcaa and to reflect an estimated total cost of $271 million. we currently do not have an agreement with the u.s. navy regarding the government contract accounting and pricing treatment of the restructuring and shutdown costs associated with our wind down at avondale. we may also incur environmental costs in connection with the wind down. these potential costs are not known and cannot be reasonably estimated at this time, but they could be significant. the actual restructuring expenses related to the wind down may be greater than our current estimate and any inability to recover such costs could result in a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. we use estimates when accounting for contracts. changes in estimates could affect our profitability and our overall financial position. contract accounting requires judgment relative to assessing risks, estimating contract revenues and costs, and making assumptions for schedule and technical issues. due to the size and nature of many of our contracts, the estimation of total revenues and costs at completion is complicated and subject to many variables. for new programs, we estimate, negotiate and contract for construction on ships that are not completely designed. as a result, assessing risks, estimating contract revenues and costs, and making assumptions for schedule and technical issues for these ships are subject to the variability of the final ship design and evolving scope of work. for all ships, assumptions have to be made regarding the length of time to complete the contract, because costs include expected increases in wages and prices for materials. similarly, assumptions have to be made regarding the future impact of our efficiency initiatives and cost reduction efforts. incentives, awards or penalties related to performance on contracts are considered in estimating revenues and profit rates, and are recorded when there is sufficient information to assess anticipated performance. because of the significance of the judgment and estimation processes described above, materially different amounts can be generated if different assumptions are used or if the underlying circumstances change. future changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates may have a material adverse effect upon future period financial reporting and our financial performance. see critical accounting policies, estimates and judgments in item 7. our business is subject to disruption caused by natural disasters, environmental disasters and other factors that could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. we have significant operations located in regions of the united states that have been and may be exposed to damaging storms, such as hurricanes, and environmental disasters, such as oil spills. although preventative measures may help to mitigate damage, the damage and disruption resulting from natural and environmental disasters may be significant. should insurance or other risk transfer mechanisms be unavailable or insufficient to recover all costs, we could experience a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. see our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover all of our significant risks or our insurers may deny coverage of material losses we incur, which could adversely affect our profitability and overall financial position . our suppliers and subcontractors are also subject to natural and environmental disasters that could affect their ability to deliver or perform under a contract. performance failures by our subcontractors due to natural or environmental disasters may adversely affect our ability to perform our obligations on the prime contract, which could reduce our profitability due to damages or other costs that may not be fully recoverable from the subcontractor, the customer or our insurers and could result in a termination of the prime contract and have an adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts. natural disasters can also disrupt our workforce, electrical and other power distribution networks, including computer and internet operation and accessibility, and the critical industrial infrastructure needed for normal business operations. these disruptions could cause adverse effects on our profitability and performance. environmental disasters, particularly oil spills in waterways and bodies of water used for the transport and testing of our ships, can disrupt the timing of our performance under our contracts with the u.s. navy and the u.s. coast guard. 17 table of contents our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover all of our significant risks or our insurers may deny coverage of material losses we incur, which could adversely affect our profitability and overall financial position. we endeavor to identify and obtain, in established markets, insurance agreements to cover significant risks and liabilities, including, among others, natural disasters, product liability and business interruption. not every risk or liability can be protected by insurance, and, for insurable risks, the limits of coverage reasonably obtainable in the market may not be sufficient to cover all actual losses or liabilities incurred, including, for example, a catastrophic hurricane claim. in some, but not all, circumstances, we may receive indemnification from the u.s. government. because of the limitations in overall available insurance coverage, we may have to bear substantial costs for uninsured losses that could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. additionally, disputes with insurance carriers over coverage may affect the timing of cash flows, and, if litigation with the carrier becomes necessary, an outcome unfavorable to us may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. our business could suffer if we are unsuccessful in negotiating new collective bargaining agreements. approximately 50% of our approximately 38,000 employees are covered by a total of 10 collective bargaining agreements. we expect to renegotiate renewals of each of our collective bargaining agreements between 2013 and 2015 as they approach expiration. collective bargaining agreements generally expire after three to five years and are subject to renegotiation at that time. while we believe we maintain good relationships with our represented workers, it is possible that we may experience difficulties with renewals and renegotiations of existing collective bargaining agreements. we have, in the past, experienced work stoppages, strikes and other labor disruptions associated with the collective bargaining of new labor agreements. if we experience such events in the future, we could incur additional expenses and work stoppages or delays that could adversely affect programs served by employees who are covered by collective bargaining agreements. significant changes in key estimates and assumptions, such as discount rates and assumed long-term return on assets, actual investment returns on our pension plan assets, and legislative and regulatory actions could affect our earnings, equity, and contributions to our pension and retiree health care plans in future periods. our pension and retiree health care costs are dependent on significant judgment in the use of various assumptions, particularly with respect to the estimates of the discount rate, expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, and health care cost trend rates. variances from these estimates could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. differences between actual investment returns and our expected long-term return on assets will result in changes in future pension expense and funded status, and could result in adverse changes in required funding to the plans. timing differences exist among the accrual of pension costs under generally accepted accounting principles in the united states of america ( gaap ), pension funding, and the recovery of costs that are allowable under our government contracts. such timing differences could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow from operations. on december 27, 2011, the u.s. cost accounting standards ( cas ) board issued its final cas harmonization rule (the harmonization rule ). the new rule will impact pension costs on contracts beginning in 2013 and is effective for forward pricing purposes for contracts negotiated on or after february 27, 2012. although we believe that contractors are entitled to an equitable adjustment on cas-covered contracts awarded prior to the february 27, 2012 effective date, the application of this rule could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows if we are unable to successfully recover such equitable adjustment. for a complete discussion regarding how our consolidated financial statements can be affected by pension plan accounting policies and regulatory changes, see critical accounting policies, estimates and judgments in item 7. unforeseen environmental costs could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. our operations are subject to and affected by a variety of existing federal, state and local environmental protection laws and regulations. in addition, we could be affected by future laws or regulations, including those imposed in response to climate change concerns or other actions commonly referred to as green initiatives. we expect to incur capital and operating costs in the future to comply with current and future environmental laws and regulations. the nature of shipbuilding operations requires the use of hazardous materials. our shipyards also generate significant quantities of wastewater, which we treat before discharging pursuant to various permits. in order to handle these materials, 18 table of contents our shipyards have an extensive network of aboveground and underground storage tanks, some of which have leaked and required remediation in the past. in addition, the extensive handling of these materials sometimes results in spills in the shipyards and occasionally in the adjacent rivers and waterways where we operate. the shipyards also have extensive waste handling programs that we maintain and periodically modify consistent with changes in applicable regulations. see environmental, health and safety in item 1. various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations impose limitations on the discharge of pollutants into the environment and establish standards for the transportation, storage and disposal of toxic and hazardous wastes. stringent fines and penalties may be imposed for noncompliance, and certain environmental laws impose joint and several strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of oil and hazardous substances, rendering a person liable for environmental cleanup and remediation costs and damage, without regard to negligence or fault on the part of such person. such laws and regulations may expose us to liability for the conduct of or conditions caused by third parties. environmental laws and regulations can also impose substantial fines and criminal sanctions for violations, and may require the installation of costly pollution control equipment or operational changes to limit pollution emissions or discharges and/or decrease the likelihood of accidental hazardous substance releases. we also incur, and expect to continue to incur, costs to comply with current federal and state environmental laws and regulations related to the cleanup of pollutants previously released into the environment. in addition, if we are found to be in violation of the clean air act or the clean water act, the facility or facilities involved in the violation could be placed by the epa on the excluded parties list maintained by the general services administration. facilities on the excluded parties list are prohibited from working on any u.s. government contract. the listing would continue until the epa concludes that the cause of the violation had been cured. the adoption of new environmental laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, imposition of new cleanup requirements, discovery of previously unknown or more extensive contamination, litigation involving environmental impacts, our ability to recover such costs under previously priced contracts or the financial insolvency of other responsible parties could cause us to incur costs in the future that could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. we previously announced our intention to wind down our shipbuilding operations at our louisiana facilities located in avondale, waggaman, and tallulah, which we anticipate will be completed in 2013. the winding down of operations at these facilities may result in environmental costs. these potential costs are not known and cannot be reasonably estimated at this time, but they could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. market volatility and adverse capital or credit market conditions may affect our ability to access cost-effective sources of funding and expose us to risks associated with the financial viability of suppliers and the ability of counterparties to perform on financial instruments. the financial and credit markets have experienced high levels of volatility and disruption, reducing the availability of credit for certain issuers. we expect to access these markets to support certain business activities, including acquisitions and capital expansion projects, obtaining credit support for our self-insurance for workers compensation, refinancing existing debt and issuing letters of credit. depending on the condition of the capital or credit markets existing at the time, we may be unable in the future to obtain capital market financing or bank financing on favorable terms, or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. a tightening of credit could also adversely affect our suppliers ability to obtain financing. delays in suppliers ability to obtain financing, or the unavailability of financing, could negatively affect their ability to perform under contracts with us and cause us to be unable to meet our contract obligations. the inability of our suppliers to obtain financing could also result in the need for us to transition to alternate suppliers, which could result in significant incremental costs and delays. we have existing agreements with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks and other institutional parties, and may in the future enter into additional agreements with such parties. these transactions expose us to potential credit risk in the event of default of a counterparty. in addition, our credit risk may be increased when collateral held by us to secure performance of a counterparty cannot be realized upon a sale or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due to us. 19 table of contents our reputation and our ability to do business may be impacted by the improper conduct of employees, agents or business partners. we have implemented extensive compliance controls, policies and procedures to prevent and detect reckless or criminal acts committed by employees, agents or business partners that would violate the laws of the jurisdictions in which we operate, including laws governing payments to government officials, security clearance breaches, cost accounting and billing, competition and data privacy. however, we cannot ensure that we will prevent all such reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees, agents or business partners. any improper actions could subject us to civil or criminal investigations and monetary and non-monetary penalties, and could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. our business could be negatively impacted by security threats, including cyber security threats, and related disruptions. as a defense contractor, we rely on our information technology infrastructure to process, transmit and store electronic information, including classified and other sensitive information of the u.s. government. while we maintain stringent information security policies and protocols, we face cyber security and other security threats to our information technology infrastructure, including threats to our and the u.s. government proprietary or classified information. we could face unlawful attempts to gain access to our information technology infrastructure, including coordinated attacks from groups of hackers. we could also face attempts to gain physical access to classified or other sensitive information located at our facilities. in addition, our information technology infrastructure is critical to the efficient operation of our business and essential to our ability to perform day-to-day operations. breaches in our information technology infrastructure or physical facilities as well as other disruptions could result in potential liability or the loss of contracts, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. our nuclear operations subject us to various environmental, regulatory, financial and other risks. the development and operation of nuclear-powered aircraft carriers, nuclear-powered submarines, nuclear facilities and other nuclear operations subject us to various risks, including: potential liabilities relating to harmful effects on the environment and human health resulting from nuclear operations and the storage, handling and disposal of radioactive materials, including nuclear devices and their components; unplanned expenditures relating to maintenance, operation, security and repair, including repairs required by the nuclear regulatory commission; reputational harm; potential liabilities arising out of a nuclear incident whether or not it is within our control; and regulatory noncompliance and loss of authorizations or indemnifications necessary for our operations. failure to properly handle these materials could pose a health risk to humans or wildlife and could cause personal injury and property damage, including environmental contamination. if an accident were to occur, its severity could be significantly affected by the volume of the materials and the speed of corrective action taken by us and emergency response personnel, as well as other factors beyond our control, such as weather and wind conditions. actions taken in response to an accident could result in significant costs. our nuclear operations are subject to various safety related requirements imposed by the u.s. navy, doe and nuclear regulatory commission. in the event of noncompliance, these agencies may increase regulatory oversight, impose fines or shut down our operations, depending upon the assessment of the severity of the situation. subject to certain requirements and limitations, our government contracts generally provide for indemnity by the u.s. government for costs arising out of or resulting from our nuclear operations. we can give no assurance, however, that we will be indemnified for all liabilities that we may incur in connection with our nuclear operations. in addition, revised security and safety requirements promulgated by the u.s. navy, doe and nuclear regulatory commission could necessitate substantial capital and other expenditures. while we maintain insurance for certain risks related to transportation of low level nuclear materials and waste, such as contaminated clothing, and for regulatory changes in the health, safety and fire protection areas, there can be no assurances that such insurance will be sufficient to cover our 20 table of contents costs in the event of an accident or business interruption relating to our nuclear operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. changes in future business conditions could cause business investments, recorded goodwill and/or purchased intangible assets to become impaired, resulting in substantial losses and write-downs that would reduce our operating income. as part of our overall strategy, we may, from time to time, acquire a non-controlling or controlling interest in a business. these investments are made upon careful analysis and due diligence procedures designed to achieve a desired return or strategic objective. these procedures often involve certain assumptions and judgment in determining acquisition prices, which prices must be allocated among acquired assets, including goodwill, based upon fair market values. notwithstanding our due diligence processes and business integration efforts, actual operating results of acquired businesses may vary significantly from initial estimates. as of december 31, 2011, goodwill and purchased intangible assets generated from prior business acquisitions accounted for approximately 14% and 9%, respectively, of our recorded total assets. in the past, we have evaluated goodwill amounts for impairment annually on november 30, or when evidence of potential impairment exists. purchased intangibles are evaluated when evidence of potential impairment exists. the impairment test is based on several factors requiring judgment. as a general matter, a significant decrease in expected cash flows or changes in market conditions may indicate potential impairment of recorded goodwill or purchased intangibles. adverse equity market conditions that result in a decline in market multiples and our stock price could result in an impairment of goodwill and/or other intangible assets. in light of the adverse equity market conditions that began in the second quarter of 2011 and the resultant decline in industry market multiples and our market capitalization, we performed an interim goodwill impairment analysis as of september 30, 2011. as a result, we recorded a preliminary non-cash charge totaling $300 million in the third quarter of 2011, which was subsequently reduced to $290 million in the fourth quarter of 2011 after our completion of an impairment analysis. we also recorded a non-cash charge totaling $2,490 million in the fourth quarter of 2008 for the impairment of goodwill. as with the 2011 impairment, the 2008 impairment was primarily driven by adverse equity market conditions that caused a decrease in market multiples and market capitalization as of the impairment testing dates. the charges reduced goodwill recorded in connection with northrop grumman 2001 acquisition of newport news shipbuilding inc. and litton industries, inc. further declines in market multiples or our stock price or other factors such as significant adverse changes to our future contract awards and operating margins at ingalls could lead to future impairments. if we are required in the future to recognize additional impairment to goodwill, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. unanticipated changes in our tax provisions or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability and cash flow. we are subject to income taxes in the united states. significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. in addition, timing differences in the recognition of contract income for financial statement purposes and for income tax purposes can cause uncertainty with respect to the timing of income tax payments, which can have a significant impact on cash flow in a particular period. furthermore, changes in applicable income tax laws and regulations, or their interpretation, could result in higher or lower income tax rates assessed or changes in the taxability of certain sales or the deductibility of certain expenses, thereby affecting our income tax expense and profitability. the final determination of any tax audits or related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. additionally, changes in our tax rate as a result of changes in our overall profitability, changes in tax legislation, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in differences between financial reporting income and taxable income, the results of audits and the examination of previously filed tax returns by taxing authorities and continuing assessments of our tax exposures could impact our tax liabilities and affect our income tax expense, profitability and cash flow. as of december 31, 2011, the estimated value of our uncertain tax positions was a potential liability of $9 million, which includes accrued interest and penalties. if our positions are sustained by the taxing authority in our favor, the reversal of the liability would reduce our income tax provision and cost of sales and service revenues. however, we cannot guarantee that such positions will be sustained in our favor. 21 table of contents we conduct a portion of our operations through joint ventures and strategic alliances. we may have limited control over joint venture projects and have returns that are not proportional to the risks and resources we contribute. in any joint venture arrangement, differences in views among the joint venture participants may result in delayed decisions or in failures to agree on major issues, and we can give no assurances that we and our joint venture partners will always reach agreement on significant decisions on a timely basis, or at all. we also cannot control the actions of our joint venture partners, including any non-performance, default or bankruptcy of our joint venture partners, and we typically share liability or have joint and/or several liability with our joint venture partners under these joint venture arrangements. these factors could potentially have a material adverse effect on our joint ventures. operating through joint ventures in which we are the minority holder results in limited control over many decisions made with respect to projects and internal controls relating to projects. these joint ventures may not be subject to the same requirements regarding internal controls and internal control reporting that we follow. as a result, internal control issues may arise that could have a material adverse effect on the joint venture. when entering into joint ventures, in order to establish or preserve relationships with our joint venture partners, we may agree to risks and contributions of resources that are proportionately greater than the returns we could receive, which could reduce our income and returns on these investments compared to what we would have received if the risks and resources we contributed were always proportionate to our returns. accordingly, our financial results could be adversely affected from unanticipated performance issues, transaction related charges and partner performance. we might in the future make strategic acquisitions and investments, and these activities involve risks and uncertainties. in pursuing our business strategies, we expect to review, evaluate and consider potential acquisitions and investments. in evaluating such transactions, we will have to make difficult judgments regarding the value of business opportunities, technologies and other assets, and the risks and costs of potential liabilities. furthermore, acquisitions and investments involve certain other risks and uncertainties, including the difficulty in integrating newly-acquired businesses, the challenges in achieving strategic objectives and other benefits anticipated from acquisitions or investments, the diversion of our attention and resources from our operations and other initiatives, the potential value impairment of acquired assets and the potential loss of key employees of acquired businesses. if we fail to manage acquisitions, investments and other transactions successfully, our financial results, business and future prospects could be harmed. we are subject to various claims and litigation that could ultimately be resolved against us, requiring material future cash payments and/or future material charges against our operating income, materially impairing our financial position. the size, type and complexity of our business make it highly susceptible to claims and litigation. we are and may become subject to various environmental claims and other litigation, which if not resolved within established reserves, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. any claims and litigation, even if fully indemnified or insured, could negatively impact our reputation among our customers and the public, and make it more difficult for us to compete effectively or obtain adequate insurance in the future. the following paragraphs describe pending claims and litigation that, if determined adversely for amounts that exceed accrued reserves, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows: in the second quarter of 2007, the u.s. coast guard issued a revocation of acceptance under the deepwater modernization program for eight converted 123-foot patrol boats (the vessels ) based on alleged hull buckling and shaft alignment problems and alleged nonconforming topside equipment on the vessels. we submitted a written response that argued that the revocation of acceptance was improper. the u.s. coast guard advised icgs, which was formed by us and lockheed martin to perform the deepwater modernization program, that it was seeking $96 million from icgs as a result of the revocation of acceptance. the majority of the costs associated with the conversion effort are associated with the alleged structural deficiencies of the vessels, which were converted under contracts with us and one of our subcontractors. in 2008, the u.s. coast guard advised icgs that the u.s. coast guard would support an investigation by the u.s. department of justice of icgs and its subcontractors instead of pursuing its $96 million claim independently. the department of justice conducted an investigation of icgs under a sealed false claims act complaint filed in the u.s. district court for the northern district of texas and decided in early 2009 not to intervene at that time. in february 2009, the district court unsealed the complaint filed by michael j. dekort, a former lockheed martin employee, against us, icgs, and lockheed martin corporation relating to the vessel conversion effort. damages under the false claims act are subject to trebling. following the resolution of certain claims between the relator and a co-defendant, the district court entered a final judgment 22 table of contents in march 2011, dismissing the relator remaining claims. the relator appealed the dismissal of the remaining claims to the u.s. court of appeals for the fifth circuit. the parties filed their respective briefs and are awaiting further proceedings with the fifth circuit. we and our predecessors-in-interest are defendants in several hundred cases filed in numerous jurisdictions around the country wherein former and current employees and various third parties allege exposure to asbestos-containing materials on, or associated with our premises, or while working on vessels constructed or repaired by us. some cases allege exposure to asbestos-containing materials through contact with our employees and third persons who were on our premises. the cases allege various injuries including those associated with pleural plaque disease, asbestosis, cancer, mesothelioma and other alleged asbestos related conditions. in some cases, several of our former executive officers are also named defendants. in some instances, partial or full insurance coverage is available to us for our potential liability and that of our former executive officers. on january 31, 2011, the u.s. department of justice first informed northrop grumman and us of a false claims act complaint that we believe was filed under seal by one or more plaintiffs (relators) in mid-2010 in the u.s. district court for the district of columbia. the redacted copy of the complaint that we received (the complaint ) alleges that through largely unspecified fraudulent means, northrop grumman and we obtained federal funds that were restricted by law for the consequences of hurricane katrina, and used those funds to cover costs under certain shipbuilding contracts that were unrelated to hurricane katrina and for which northrop grumman and we were not entitled to recovery under the contracts. the complaint seeks monetary damages of at least $835 million, plus penalties, attorneys fees and other costs of suit. damages under the false claims act may be trebled upon a finding of liability. we have agreed to cooperate with the government investigation relating to the false claims act complaint. until the case is unsealed, we will not know the department of justice decision on intervention. based upon our review to date of the information available to us, we believe we have substantive defenses to the allegations in the complaint. we believe that the claims as set forth in the complaint evidence a fundamental lack of understanding of the terms and conditions in our shipbuilding contracts, including the post-katrina modifications to those contracts, and the manner in which the parties performed in connection with the contracts. we may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, which could affect our ability to compete. we own or have the right to use certain patents, trademarks, copyrights and other forms of intellectual property. the u.s. government has rights to use certain intellectual property we develop in performance of government contracts, and it may use or authorize others to use such intellectual property. our intellectual property is subject to challenge, invalidation, misappropriation or circumvention by third parties. we also rely upon proprietary technology, information, processes and know-how that are not protected by patents. we seek to protect this information through trade secret or confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, subcontractors and other parties, as well as through other security measures. these agreements may not provide meaningful protection for our unpatented proprietary information. in the event our intellectual property rights are infringed, we may not have adequate legal remedies to maintain our rights in our intellectual property. litigation to determine the scope of our rights, even if successful, could be costly and a diversion of management attention away from other aspects of our business. in addition, trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. in instances where third parties have licensed to us the right to use their proprietary intellectual property, we may be unable in the future to secure the necessary licenses to use such intellectual property on commercially reasonable terms. our debt exposes us to certain risks. as of december 31, 2011, we had $1,859 million of debt and an additional $650 million available for borrowings and letters of credit under the hii credit facility ( credit facility ). despite our current level of debt, we may be able to incur significant additional debt in the future. our current level of debt could have important consequences, including: increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic or industry conditions; requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and general corporate purposes; 23 table of contents increasing our vulnerability to, and limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or the industry in which we operate; exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates as borrowings under our credit facility are subject to variable rates of interest; placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and limiting our ability to borrow additional funds. to the extent new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we face would be increased. we may not be able to generate sufficient cash from operations to service our debt. our ability to make payments on and refinance our debt and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future and our ability to borrow under our credit facilities to the extent of available borrowings. this, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. we could experience decreased revenues from our operations and could fail to generate sufficient cash to fund our liquidity needs or fail to satisfy the restrictive covenants and borrowing limitations to which we are subject under our debt. we cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us under our credit facility or otherwise in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our debt or to fund our other liquidity needs. we may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt on or before the maturity thereof. we cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our debt on commercially reasonable terms or at all. if we cannot service our debt, we may have to take actions, such as selling assets, selling equity or reducing or delaying capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances. we cannot assure you that any such actions, if necessary, could be effected on commercially reasonable terms or at all. restrictive covenants in the indenture governing our senior notes and our credit facility may restrict our ability to pursue our business strategies. the indenture governing our senior notes and the terms of our credit facility limit our ability, among other things, to: incur additional debt; pay dividends or make other distributions on, or repurchase or redeem, our stock; prepay, redeem or repurchase certain of our debt; make investments; sell assets; enter into agreements restricting our subsidiaries ability to pay dividends; consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; enter into transactions with our affiliates; and incur liens. in addition, our credit facility limits our ability to make capital expenditures and requires us to maintain certain financial ratios, including a minimum interest coverage ratio and a maximum leverage ratio. these covenants may restrict our financial flexibility, limit any strategic initiatives, restrict our ability to grow or limit our ability to respond to competitive changes. as a result of these covenants, we will be limited in the manner in which we can conduct our business, and we may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or capital needs. accordingly, these covenants may limit our ability to successfully execute our strategy and operate our business. risks related to the spin-off we may incur greater costs as an independent company than we did when we were part of northrop grumman. as a former subsidiary of northrop grumman, we took advantage of northrop grumman size and purchasing power in procuring certain goods and services such as insurance and health care benefits, and technology, such as computer software 24 table of contents licenses. we also relied upon northrop grumman to provide various corporate functions. as a separate, independent entity, we may be unable to obtain these goods, services and technologies at prices or on terms as favorable to us as those we obtained prior to the spin-off. we may also incur costs for functions previously performed by northrop grumman that are higher than the amounts reflected in our historical financial statements, which could cause our profitability to decrease. we may be responsible for u.s. federal income tax liabilities that relate to the spin-off from northrop grumman. our spin-off from northrop grumman was structured to minimize the likelihood that northrop grumman, northrop grumman stockholders and we would be required to recognize any taxable income, gain or loss for u.s. federal income tax purposes as a result of the spin-off, except with respect to cash received by northrop grumman stockholders in lieu of fractional shares. if all or a portion of the spin-off does not qualify as a tax-free transaction, northrop grumman would recognize a substantial gain for u.s. federal income tax purposes. in such case, under irs regulations, each member of northrop grumman consolidated group at the time of the spin-off, including our subsidiaries and us, would be severally liable for the resulting u.s. federal income tax liability. even if the spin-off otherwise qualifies as a tax-free transaction for u.s. federal income tax purposes, the distribution will be taxable to northrop grumman pursuant to section 355(e) of the internal revenue code if there are one or more acquisitions, including issuances, of the stock of either northrop grumman or us representing 50% or more, measured by vote or value, of the then-outstanding stock of either corporation and the acquisition or acquisitions are deemed to be part of a plan or series of related transactions that include the distribution. any acquisition of our common stock within two years before or after the distribution, with exceptions, including public trading by less-than-5% stockholders and certain compensatory stock issuances, generally will be presumed to be part of such a plan unless we can rebut that presumption. the tax liability resulting from the application of section 355(e) would be substantial, and, under irs regulations, each member of the northrop grumman consolidated group at the time of the spin-off, including our subsidiaries and us, would be severally liable for the resulting u.s. federal income tax liability. we agreed with northrop grumman, as part of the spin-off, not to enter into any transaction that could reasonably be expected to cause any portion of the spin-off to be taxable to northrop grumman, including under section 355(e). we also agreed to indemnify northrop grumman for any tax liabilities resulting from any such transactions. the amount of any such indemnification could be substantial. in addition, these obligations may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company. we do not have a recent operating history as an independent company and our historical financial information may not be a reliable indicator of our future results. the historical financial information prior to april 1, 2011, that we have included in this form 10-k was derived from northrop grumman consolidated financial statements and does not necessarily reflect what our financial position, results of operations and cash flows would have been had we been a separate, stand-alone entity during the periods prior to april 1, 2011. northrop grumman did not account for us, and we were not operated, as a single stand-alone entity for the quarter ended march 31, 2011, and the years ended december 31, 2010 and 2009. in addition, the historical information is not necessarily indicative of what our results of operations, financial position and cash flows will be in the future. for example, following the spin-off, changes occurred in our cost structure, funding and operations, including changes in our tax structure, increased costs associated with reduced economies of scale and increased costs associated with becoming a public, stand-alone company. while we were profitable as part of northrop grumman, we cannot guarantee that as a stand-alone company our profits will continue at a similar level. our customers and prospective customers must consider whether our responsibility on a stand-alone basis satisfies their requirements for engaging in business with us. under far, the government commonly makes affirmative responsibility determinations before entering into new contracts with a contractor. in so doing, the government considers various factors, including financial resources, performance record, technical skills and facilities of a prospective contractor. our customers and prospective customers will consider whether our responsibility on a stand-alone basis satisfies their requirements for entering into new contracts with us. the u.s. navy made its determination of contractor responsibility with respect to significant shipbuilding contracts that we have entered into since the 25 table of contents spin-off and has found us to be a responsible contractor for those contracts. we believe we are and will continue to be a responsible contractor under far. nonetheless, if, in the future, our customers or prospective customers are not satisfied with our responsibility, including our financial resources, it would likely affect our ability to bid for, obtain or retain contracts, which, if unresolved, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. more generally, our customers will need to develop and retain confidence in us as a partner on a stand-alone basis. we believe that will occur. in the process, however, our customers may continue to request additional information, as well as undertake further audits or take other steps that could lead to delays and increased costs. our spin-off from northrop grumman may expose us to potential liabilities arising out of state and federal fraudulent conveyance laws. a court could determine that northrop grumman did not receive fair consideration or reasonably equivalent value for distributing our common stock or taking other action as part of the spin-off, or that we did not receive fair consideration or reasonably equivalent value for incurring indebtedness, including the new debt incurred by us in connection with the spin-off, transferring assets or taking other action as part of the spin-off and, at the time of such action, we or northrop grumman (i) was insolvent or would be rendered insolvent, (ii) had reasonably small capital with which to carry on its business and all business in which it intended to engage or (iii) intended to incur, or believed it would incur, debts beyond its ability to repay such debts as they would mature. in such event, the court could void the spin-off as a constructive fraudulent transfer. if such court made this determination, the court could impose a number of different remedies, including voiding our liens and claims against northrop grumman or providing northrop grumman with a claim for money damages against us in an amount equal to the difference between the consideration received by northrop grumman and the fair market value of our company at the time of the spin-off. in connection with the spin-off, northrop grumman and we agreed that each of us would be responsible for the debts, liabilities and other obligations related to the business or businesses that it owns and operates following the spin-off. although we do not expect to be liable for any such obligations not expressly assumed by us, it is possible that a court would disregard the agreed allocation, and require that we assume responsibility for obligations allocated to northrop grumman, for example, certain tax and/or environmental liabilities, particularly if northrop grumman were to refuse or be unable to pay or perform the subject allocated obligations. risks related to our common stock we do not currently pay dividends on our common stock, and our indebtedness could limit our future ability to pay dividends on our common stock. we do not currently intend to pay a dividend on our common stock. going forward, our dividend policy will be established by our board of directors based upon our financial condition, results of operations, and capital requirements, as well as applicable law, regulatory constraints, industry practice and other business considerations that our board of directors considers relevant. the terms of the agreements governing our existing debt or debt that we may incur in the future may limit or prohibit the payments of dividends. in addition, the amount of our existing and any additional future debt may limit our ability to pay dividends. if we cannot generate sufficient cash flow from operations to meet our debt payment obligations, then our ability to pay dividends, even if declared by our board of directors, will be impaired. there can be no assurance that we will pay a dividend in the future or continue to pay any dividend if we do commence the payment of dividends. anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and delaware law, as well as regulatory requirements, could delay or prevent a change in control. certain provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws may delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a stockholder may consider favorable. for example, the restated certificate of incorporation and the restated bylaws provide for a classified board, require advance notice for stockholder proposals and nominations, place limitations on convening stockholder meetings and authorize our board of directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock. these provisions may also discourage acquisition proposals or delays or prevent a change in control, which could harm our stock price. delaware law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock and us. 26 table of contents we agreed with northrop grumman, in connection with our spin-off, not to enter into any transaction involving an acquisition, including issuance, of our common stock or any other transaction, or, to the extent we have the right to prohibit it, to permit any such transaction, that could reasonably be expected to cause the spin-off to be taxable to northrop grumman. we also agreed to indemnify northrop grumman for any tax liabilities resulting from any such transactions. generally, northrop grumman will recognize taxable gain on the spin-off if there are one or more acquisitions, including issuances, of our capital stock, directly or indirectly, representing 50% or more, measured by vote or value, of our then-outstanding capital stock, and the acquisitions or issuances are deemed to be part of a plan or series of related transactions that include the spin-off. any such shares of our common stock acquired, directly or indirectly, within two years before or after the spin-off, with exceptions, including public trading by less-than-5% stockholders and certain compensatory stock issuances, will generally be presumed to be part of such a plan unless we can rebut that presumption. the amount of any indemnification payment we may be required to pay to northrop grumman resulting from any such transactions could be substantial. our activities, especially our nuclear shipbuilding operations, are considered vitally important to the u.s. navy. as such, the u.s. navy engaged us regarding the incorporation into our contracts of explicit terms regarding notice and approval rights in the event of a change of control of the company and regarding the u.s. navy obligations to indemnify us for nuclear work. one such clause, as it applies to our nuclear work, was negotiated and agreed to by the u.s. navy and us last year and incorporated certain change of control and indemnification provisions into our existing contracts. in order for the u.s. navy to ensure that a potential buyer of the company would continue to conduct our operations in a satisfactory manner, we are required to provide the u.s. navy with notice of any potential change of control and obtain the u.s. navy consent for transferring certain licenses. this clause and other provisions have also been included in solicitations for future u.s. navy nuclear work. provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and our obligations to northrop grumman in connection with the spin-off and the u.s. navy under existing contracts may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change of control of our company that may be beneficial to our stockholders. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 58 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk, primarily related to interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. interest rates our financial instruments subject to interest rate risk include floating rate borrowings under our credit facility. at december 31, 2011, we had $554 million in floating rate debt outstanding under our credit facility term loan. our $650 million revolver remained undrawn as of december 31, 2011. based on the amounts outstanding under our credit facility as of december 31, 2011, an increase of 1% in interest rates would increase the interest expense on our debt by approximately $6 million on an annual basis. foreign currency we currently have, and in the future may enter into, foreign currency forward contracts to manage foreign currency exchange rate risk related to payments to suppliers denominated in foreign currencies. at december 31, 2011, the amount of foreign currency forward contracts outstanding was not significant. 58 table of contentsrisk factors 11 we conduct substantially all of our business with the u.s. government, principally the department of defense ("dod"). as prime contractor, principal subcontractor, team member or partner, we participate in many high-priority u.s. defense technology programs. with our product capabilities, heavy industrial facilities and a workforce of approximately 37,000 employees, we believe we are positioned to continue to support the long-term objectives of the u.s. navy and u.s. coast guard to adapt and respond to a complex, uncertain and rapidly changing national security environment. we became an independent, publicly-owned company on march 31, 2011, when we were spun off from northrop grumman corporation ("northrop grumman"). following the spin-off from northrop grumman, we have owned and operated the legacy northrop grumman shipbuilding business. ingalls through our ingalls operations, we design and construct non-nuclear ships for the u.s. navy and u.s. coast guard, including amphibious assault ships, surface combatants and national security cutters. we are the sole supplier of amphibious assault ships to the u.s. navy and built 28 of the 62-ship ddg-51 arleigh burke -class of aegis guided missile destroyers in active service. we are also the sole builder of the large multi-mission national security cutters for the u.s. coast guard. our ingalls shipbuilding sites are located in pascagoula, mississippi, gulfport, mississippi, and avondale, louisiana. these facilities offer a collection of manufacturing capabilities, such as a 660-ton gantry crane, a shipbuilding facility focused on composite engineering and production and a land based test facility. 1 table of contents we are winding down military shipbuilding at avondale, but we are currently exploring alternative uses for the avondale facility. we believe that consolidating ingalls military shipbuilding at our pascagoula facility will decrease our fixed overhead expenses, provide improved facility utilization and a more cost-efficient construction process, centralize our shipbuilding learning and increase the benefits of serial production, and reduce program costs, thereby enhancing our competitive positions. amphibious assault ships we are the sole supplier to the u.s. navy of amphibious assault and expeditionary warfare ships, which include the u.s. navy large deck amphibious ships ("lha"), amphibious transport dock ships ("lpd") and multi-purpose amphibious assault ships ("lhd"). the lha is a key component of the u.s. navy-marine corps requirement for 11 expeditionary strike groups/amphibious readiness groups, and design, construction and modernization of lhas are core to our ingalls operations. in 2009, construction of lhd-1 wasp -class multipurpose amphibious assault ships concluded with the delivery of lhd-8 uss makin island . in 2007, we were awarded the construction contract for lha-6 america , the first in a new class of enhanced amphibious assault ships designed from the keel up to be an aviation optimized marine assault platform. the first ship of the lha-6 america -class is currently under construction, and we expect to deliver it in 2013. we were awarded the construction contract for lha-7 tripoli in 2012. the lpd program is a long-run production program where we have an opportunity to take advantage of cost reductions resulting from ship-over-ship learning. we are currently constructing three lpd-17 san antonio -class amphibious transport dock ships: lpd-25 somerset scheduled for delivery in 2013, in our avondale shipyard, as well as lpd-26 john p. murtha scheduled for delivery in 2016 and lpd-27 (unnamed) scheduled for delivery in 2017, in our pascagoula, mississippi shipyard. we delivered lpd-23 anchorage and lpd-24 arlington in 2012 and lpd-22 uss san diego in 2011. surface combatants we are a design agent for and one of only two companies that constructs the ddg-51 arleigh burke -class guided missile destroyers as well as major components for the ddg-1000 zumwalt -class of land attack destroyers. we have delivered 28 ddg-51 arleigh burke -class destroyers to the u.s. navy, including ddg-107 uss gravely in july 2010 and ddg-110 uss william p. lawrence in february 2011. our participation in the ddg-1000 zumwalt -class destroyers program includes detailed design and construction of the ships' integrated composite deckhouses, as well as portions of the ships' aft peripheral vertical launch systems, at our gulfport, mississippi shipyard, which focuses on composite research, engineering and construction. the u.s. navy expects to build three ddg-1000 zumwalt -class destroyers. in 2012, we delivered the composite deckhouse and hangar of ddg-1000 zumwalt , and we are currently constructing the composite deckhouse and hangar of ddg-1001 michael monsoor . we are currently procuring long-lead-time material and doing limited production work for the ddg-1002 lyndon b. johnson under a contract awarded in 2011. the u.s. navy has restarted the ddg-51 arleigh burke -class destroyer production line and truncated the ddg-1000 zumwalt -class program. as a result, we are currently constructing ddg-113 john finn, scheduled for delivery in 2016, and were awarded a construction contract for ddg-114 ralph johnson, which is scheduled for delivery in 2017. national security cutter ("nsc") the u.s. coast guard's recapitalization program is designed to replace aging and operationally expensive ships and aircraft used to conduct missions in excess of 50 miles from the shoreline. the flagship of this program is the legend -class nsc, a multi-mission platform designed and built by us. the u.s. coast guard ordered the first three nsc vessels from integrated coast guard systems ("icgs"), a joint venture between lockheed martin and us, pursuant to an indefinite delivery/indefinite quantity ("idiq") contract for the deepwater modernization program. the first national security cutter, nsc-1 uscgc bertholf , was delivered to the u.s. coast guard in 2008, followed by nsc-2 uscgc waesche in 2009 and nsc-3 uscgc stratton in 2011. beginning in 2010 with the construction contract for nsc-4 hamilton , the nsc contracts have been awarded directly to ingalls. nsc-4 hamilton and nsc-5 joshua james are currently under construction. ingalls was awarded an advance procurement contract for nsc-6 (unnamed) in 2012 and has submitted a proposal to construct nsc-6 (unnamed). 2 table of contents fleet support: amsec and continental maritime of san diego ("cmsd") fleet support provides comprehensive life cycle services, including depot maintenance, modernization, repairs, logistics and technical support and planning yard services for naval and commercial vessels through our amsec and cmsd subsidiaries. we have ship repair facilities in newport news, virginia, and san diego, california, which are near the u.s. navy's largest homeports of norfolk, virginia and san diego, respectively. amsec provides naval architecture and marine engineering, ship system assessments, maintenance engineering and logistics services to the u.s. navy and commercial maritime industry from 27 locations nationwide and overseas. on any given day, over 600 of our amsec employees are on board u.s. navy ships, assessing equipment conditions, modernizing systems and training sailors. through cmsd, a master ship repair contractor, we provide ship repair, regular overhaul and selected restricted availability services (pier side or in customers' dry docks) for the u.s. navy. we also perform emergent repair for the u.s. navy on all classes of ships. newport news the capabilities of our newport news operations extend from our core nuclear business of designing and constructing nuclear-powered ships, such as aircraft carriers and submarines, and the refueling and overhaul and the inactivation of such ships, to our secondary businesses that are focused on the construction of heavy manufacturing equipment for commercial nuclear power facilities and the operations, management and cleanup of environmental hazard sites through department of energy ("doe") programs. our newport news shipyard is one of the largest shipyards in the united states. our facilities are located on approximately 550 acres near the mouth of the james river, which adjoins the chesapeake bay. the shipyard has two miles of waterfront property and heavy industrial facilities that include seven graving docks, a floating dry dock, two outfitting berths, five outfitting piers, module outfitting facilities and various other workshops. our newport news shipyard also has a 2,170-foot dry dock and a 1,050-ton gantry crane capable of servicing two aircraft carriers at one time. design, construction and refueling and complex overhaul of aircraft carriers engineering, design and construction of u.s. navy nuclear aircraft carriers are core to our operations. aircraft carriers are the largest ships in the u.s. navy's fleet, with a displacement of over 90,000 tons. since 1933, newport news has delivered 30 aircraft carriers to the u.s. navy, including all ten ships currently in active service. the u.s. navy's newest carrier and the last of the cvn-68 nimitz -class, cvn-77 uss george h.w. bush , was delivered in 2009. we have been engaged in design work on the next generation aircraft carrier, the cvn-78 gerald r. ford- class, for over ten years. in 2008, we were awarded a $5.1 billion contract for detail design and construction of the first ship of the class, cvn-78 gerald r. ford , which is scheduled for delivery in 2015. we subsequently received awards in 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012 totaling $1.5 billion under a construction preparation contract for the second cvn-78 gerald r. ford -class aircraft carrier, cvn-79 john f. kennedy . this contract includes design, planning, procurement of long-lead-time materials and limited fabrication, as well as continued research and development with key suppliers. we continue to be the exclusive prime contractor for nuclear aircraft carrier refueling and complex overhaul ("rcoh"). each rcoh takes over three years to complete, and the work accounts for approximately 35% of all maintenance and modernization during an aircraft carrier's service life. rcoh services include propulsion work (refueling of reactors; propulsion plant modernization; and propulsion plant repairs), restoration of service life (dry docking, tank and void maintenance; hull shafting, propellers, and rudders; launch and recovery system, piping repairs, and component refurbishment), and modernization (electrical systems; aviation support systems; warfare; interoperability; and environmental compliance). we provide ongoing maintenance services for the u.s. navy aircraft carrier fleet through both rcoh and on-site fleet repair work. we are currently performing a rcoh on cvn-71 uss theodore roosevelt and expect to redeliver it to the u.s. navy following its completion in 2013. beginning in 2010, we received awards totaling $703 million under a planning contract for the rcoh of cvn-72 uss abraham lincoln . we believe our position as the exclusive designer and builder of nuclear-powered aircraft carriers, as well as the fact that rcoh work requires a highly trained workforce, is capital-intensive and has high barriers to entry due to its nuclear component, strongly positions us for the award of future rcoh contracts on the current and future fleet of u.s. navy aircraft carriers. 3 table of contents aircraft carrier inactivation aircraft carriers have a lifespan of approximately 50 years, and we believe the ten carriers delivered by us that are currently in active service, as well as those we will deliver in the future, present a significant opportunity for us with respect to their inactivation. we expect to be awarded a contract with the u.s. navy in 2013 to inactivate the cvn-65 uss enterprise , the world's first nuclear-powered aircraft carrier, which was built by us and commissioned in 1961. beginning in 2008, we received awards totaling $318 million under an advance planning contract to begin preparations for the execution of the inactivation. we have constructed the facility to perform aircraft carrier inactivation work at our newport news shipyard. we believe that the u.s. navy will require inactivation of other aircraft carriers in the naval fleet as they reach the end of their lifespans, and we intend to be positioned as the best choice to be awarded that work. design and construction of nuclear-powered submarines we are one of only two companies in the united states capable of designing and building nuclear-powered submarines for the u.s. navy. since 1960, newport news has delivered 57 submarines to the u.s. navy, comprised of 43 fast attack and 14 ballistic missile submarines. of the 54 nuclear-powered fast attack submarines currently in active service, 25 were delivered by newport news. our nuclear submarine program, located at our newport news shipyard, includes construction, engineering, design, research and integrated planning. in february 1997, we executed a teaming agreement with electric boat, a division of general dynamics corporation ("general dynamics"), to build ssn-774 virginia -class fast attack nuclear submarines cooperatively. under the present arrangement, we build the stern, habitability and machinery spaces, torpedo room, sail and bow, while electric boat builds the engine room, control room and pressure hull structure. work on the reactor plant and the final assembly, test, outfit and delivery of the submarines alternate between electric boat and us. the four submarines of the first block and the first five submarines of the second block of ssn-774 virginia -class submarines have been delivered. construction on the final submarine of the second block is underway, with delivery scheduled for 2013. in december 2008, the team was awarded a construction contract for the third block of eight ssn-774 virginia -class submarines. the multi-year contract increased construction from one submarine per year to two submarines per year from 2011 to 2013. the eighth submarine to be procured under this contract is scheduled for delivery in 2019. ssbn(x) ohio-class replacement program the u.s. navy's shipbuilding plan for fiscal year 2013 states the u.s. navy's intention to focus on the design and construction of replacement boats for the current aging ohio -class nuclear ballistic and cruise missile submarines. the u.s. navy has committed to designing a replacement class for the ssbn ohio -class nuclear ballistic missile submarines ("ssbn"), which were first introduced into service in 1981. we are currently participating in the design effort and our experience and well-qualified workforce position us for a potential role in the construction effort. the ssbn ohio- class includes 14 nuclear ballistic missile submarines and four nuclear cruise missile submarines ("ssgn"). the ohio replacement program currently anticipates 12 new ballistic missile submarines over a 15-year period at a cost of approximately $4 billion to $7 billion each. the u.s. navy has initiated the design process for the new class of submarine, and we have begun design work as a subcontractor to electric boat. congress has delayed the start of the first ohio replacement submarine by two years and construction is now expected to begin in 2021, with procurement of long-lead-time materials in 2017 and delivery in 2030. the first ohio -class ballistic missile submarine is expected to be retired in 2027 with an additional submarine being retired each year thereafter. by 2030 the ohio -class ballistic missile submarine fleet is expected to be down to ten. the current fiscal environment and uncertainty in defense budgets may cause additional delay to the start of construction or result in a reduction in the number of ships being procured, but we believe the ohio replacement program may represent a significant opportunity for us in the future. energy our doe and commercial nuclear programs leverage our core competencies in nuclear operations, program management and heavy manufacturing. we selectively partner with experienced industry leaders, and we are a participant in one active joint venture. we are also able, through our subsidiary newport news industrial corporation ("nni"), to provide a range of services to the energy industry as well as government customers. 4 table of contents savannah river nuclear solutions, llc ("srns") in january 2008, srns, our joint venture with fluor federal services, inc. and honeywell international inc., was awarded a five-year $4 billion contract for site management and operations of the doe's savannah river site located 12 miles south of aiken, south carolina. work at the site includes management of a national laboratory and the cleanup of nuclear waste, both newly generated and backlogged, and legacy wastes that exist at various facilities throughout the savannah river site. as part of the american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009, srns was awarded a $1.4 billion contract to deactivate and remediate several reactors and sites at the savannah river site. in september 2012, the doe exercised its option to extend the original contract for another three years, bringing the total contract value to approximately $8 billion. we have a 34% ownership stake in srns. newport news industrial corporation nni provides a range of support services to operating commercial nuclear power plants. in the 45 years since it was founded, nni has expanded its capabilities, continuing to provide support for nuclear energy facilities, as well as for fossil power plants and other industrial facilities. nni focuses on fabrication services, construction services, equipment services, technical services and product sales to its customers, which include both private industry and government entities such as the doe and the dod. corporate huntington ingalls industries, inc. was incorporated in delaware on august 4, 2010. our principal executive offices are located at 4101 washington avenue, newport news, virginia 23607. our telephone number is (757) 380-2000, and our home page on the internet is www.huntingtoningalls.com . references to our website in this report are provided as a convenience and do not constitute, and should not be viewed as, incorporation by reference of the information contained on, or available through, the website. accordingly, such information should not be considered part of this report. summary segment financial data for a more complete understanding of our segment financial information, see segment operating results in item 7 and note 6: segment information in item 8. customers revenues from the u.s. government accounted for substantially all of our revenues in 2012, 2011 and 2010. in 2012, 2011 and 2010, appr oximately 96%, 97% and 97%, respectively, of our revenues were generated from the u.s. navy and approximately 4%, 3% and 3%, r espectively, were generated from the u.s. coast guard. intellectual property with approximately 5,000 engineers and designers, we develop and incorporate into our vessels new technologies, manufacturing processes and systems-integration practices. in addition to owning a large portfolio of proprietary intellectual property, we license intellectual property rights to and from others. the u.s. government holds licenses to our patents developed in the performance of u.s. government contracts and unlimited license rights in technical data developed under our u.s. government contracts when such data is developed entirely at government expense. the u.s. government may use or authorize others to use the technology covered by our patents licensed to the government. while our intellectual property rights are important to our operations, we do not believe that any existing patent, license or other intellectual property right is of such importance that its loss or termination would have a material impact on our business. seasonality no material portion of our business is seasonal. the timing of our revenue recognition is based on several factors, including the timing of contract awards, the incurrence of contract costs, cost estimation, and unit deliveries. see critical accounting policies, estimates, and judgments - revenue recognition in item 7. 5 table of contents backlog as of december 31, 2012 and 2011 , our total backlog was approximately $16 billion . approximately 31% of backlog at december 31, 2012 , is expected to be converted into sales in 2013 . total backlog includes both funded backlog (firm orders for which funding is contractually obligated by the customer) and unfunded backlog (firm orders for which funding is not currently contractually obligated by the customer). unfunded backlog excludes unexercised contract options and unfunded idiq orders. for contracts having no stated contract values, backlog includes only the amounts committed by the customer. backlog is converted into sales as work is performed or deliveries are made. for backlog by segment, see backlog in item 7. raw materials the most significant raw material we use is steel. other materials used in large quantities include paint, aluminum, pipe, electrical cable and fittings. all of these materials are currently available in adequate supply. in connection with our government contracts, we are required to procure certain materials and component parts from supply sources approved by the u.s. government. generally, for long-term contracts, we obtain price quotations for many of our materials requirements from multiple suppliers to ensure competitive pricing. we have not generally been dependent upon any one supply source; however, due largely to the consolidation of the defense industry, we currently have only one supplier for certain component parts. we believe that these single source suppliers, as well as our overall supplier base, are adequate to meet our future needs. we have mitigated some supply risk by negotiating long-term agreements with certain raw material suppliers. in addition, we have mitigated price risk related to raw material purchases through certain contractual arrangements with customers. research and development to foster innovative product development and evolution, we conduct research and development activities as part of our normal business operations. our research and development activities primarily include independent research and development ("ir&amp;d") efforts related to government programs. we recover a significant portion of our ir&amp;d expenditures through overhead charges to u.s. government contracts, consistent with u.s. government regulations. we include ir&amp;d expenses in general and administrative expenses. company-sponsored ir&amp;d expenses totaled $21 million , $24 million and $23 million for the years ended december 31, 2012 , 2011 and 2010 , respectively. at our virginia advanced shipbuilding and carrier integration center ("vascic"), located in newport news, virginia, we conduct on-site warfare systems testing, training and laboratory research for the next generation of aircraft carriers, submarines and other ships. vascic serves as the focal point for the integration of ship systems and the application of new technologies. it has a classified facility and an integration area that facilitates research and development related to setup and testing of electronics as well as hull, mechanical and electrical systems prior to introducing new equipment on board a ship. it also has modeling and simulation capability allowing for visualization using 3-d displays. we believe vascic benefits the u.s. navy and represents a competitive advantage for us by developing future naval capabilities, reducing total ownership cost and facilitating technology transfer. governmental regulation and supervision our business is affected by a variety of laws and regulations relating to the award, administration and performance of u.s. government contracts. see risks related to our business in item 1a. we operate in a highly regulated environment and are routinely audited and reviewed by the u.s. government and its agencies, such as the u.s. navy's supervisor of shipbuilding, the defense contract audit agency ("dcaa") and the defense contract management agency ("dcma"). these agencies review our contract performance, cost structures and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards, as well as the adequacy of, and our compliance with, our internal control systems and policies. systems subject to audit or review include our accounting systems, purchasing systems, billing systems, property management and control systems, cost estimating systems, earned value management systems, compensation systems and management information systems. any costs we incur that are determined to be unallowable or improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed by our customer or must be refunded if already reimbursed. if an audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties as well as administrative sanctions, which may 6 table of contents include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension, and prohibition from doing business with the u.s. government. the u.s. government has the ability, pursuant to recent regulations relating to contractor business systems, to decrease or withhold contract payments if it determines significant deficiencies exist in one or more such systems. for our contracts subject to these new regulations, the u.s. government has, in certain instances, withheld payments upon its assessment that deficiencies exist with one or more of our business systems. we are modifying our affected business systems to address the u.s. government's concerns. in addition, the u.s. government generally has the ability to terminate contracts, in whole or in part, with little to no prior notice, for convenience or for default based on performance. in the event of termination for the government's convenience, contractors are normally protected by provisions that provide for reimbursement for costs incurred on the contracts and profit on those costs, but not for the anticipated profit that would have been earned had the contract been completed. termination resulting from our default could expose us to various liabilities, including excess reprocurement costs, and could have a material effect on our ability to compete for future contracts. in 2009, congress passed legislation to improve the organization and procedures of the dod for the acquisition of major weapons systems, including shipbuilding and maritime systems. this legislation, the weapon system acquisition reform act of 2009, requires the dod to develop mechanisms to address cost, schedule and performance in establishing program requirements. as acquisition reform progresses, we will continue to anticipate the actions of the pentagon and congress to determine their impact on our operations and respond appropriately. government contractors must comply with a significant volume of procurement regulations and other requirements. contracting with the u.s. government may result in our filing of requests for equitable adjustments ("reas"), which represent requests for the u.s. government to make appropriate adjustments to terms of a contract including pricing, delivery schedule, technical requirements or other affected terms, due to changes in the original contract requirements and resulting delays and disruption in contract performance for which the u.s. government is responsible. reas are prepared, submitted and negotiated in the ordinary course of business, and large reas are not uncommon at the conclusion of both new construction and rcoh activities. such reas are not considered claims under the contract disputes act of 1978, although they may be converted to such claims if good faith negotiations are unproductive. in cases where there are multiple suppliers, contracts for the construction and conversion of u.s. navy ships and submarines are generally subject to competitive bidding. in evaluating proposed prices, the u.s. navy sometimes requires that each bidder submit information on pricing, estimated costs of completion and anticipated profit margins in order to assess cost realism. the u.s. navy uses this information and other data to determine an estimated cost for each bidder. under u.s. government regulations, certain costs, including certain financing costs and marketing expenses, are not allowable contract costs and, therefore, are not recoverable. the u.s. government also regulates the methods by which all costs, including overhead, are allocated to government contracts. our contracts with various agencies of the u.s. government and our subcontracts with other prime contractors are subject to additional procurement regulations that include, but are not limited to, the truth in negotiations act, the procurement integrity act, the false claims act, cost accounting standards, the international traffic in arms regulations promulgated under the arms export control act, the close the contractor fraud loophole act and the foreign corrupt practices act. a noncompliance determination by any one agency may result in fines, penalties, debarment or suspension from receiving additional contracts with all u.s. government agencies. competition we primarily compete with general dynamics and, to a lesser extent, smaller shipyards, one or more of which may team with a large defense contractor. intense competition related to programs, resources and funding, and long operating cycles are key characteristics of both our business and the shipbuilding defense industry in general. it is common industry practice to share work on major programs among a number of companies. a company competing to be a prime contractor may, upon ultimate award of the contract to another party, become a subcontractor for the prime contracting party. it is not uncommon to compete for a contract award with a peer company and, simultaneously, perform as a supplier to or a customer of such competitor on other contracts. the nature of major defense programs, conducted under binding contracts, allows companies that perform well to benefit from a level of program continuity not common in many industries. 7 table of contents we believe we are well-positioned in the market. because we are the only company currently capable of building, refueling and defueling the u.s. navy's nuclear-powered aircraft carriers, we believe we are in a strong competitive position to be awarded each contract to perform such activities. even so, the government periodically revisits whether refueling of nuclear-powered aircraft carriers should be performed in private or public facilities. in this regard, the national defense authorization act for fiscal year 2012 ("2012 act") required dod to develop a core depot level maintenance capability to refuel nuclear aircraft carriers. the national defense authorization act for fiscal year 2013 ("2013 act") modified the 2012 act by restoring an exception for the nuclear refueling of an aircraft carrier from the definition of core depot level maintenance. the 2013 act also amended and clarified the exception to cover the concurrent refueling and overhaul of an aircraft carrier, as well as the defueling of an aircraft carrier. similarly, the 2013 act restored an exclusion for nuclear aircraft carrier programs from the definition of core logistics capabilities that was found in previous law. we are currently the only builder of large deck amphibious assault and expeditionary warfare ships for the u.s. navy, including lhas and lpds, and are positioned to be awarded future contracts for these types of vessels. we are also the sole supplier of nscs for the u.s. coast guard, and are positioned to be awarded future contracts for these types of vessels. we are one of only two companies currently designing and building nuclear-powered submarines for the u.s. navy and one of only two companies that builds the u.s. navy's current fleet of ddg-51 arleigh burke -class destroyers. we are positioned to be awarded future contracts for these types of ships as well. our success in the shipbuilding defense industry depends upon our ability to develop, market and produce our products and services at a cost consistent with the u.s. navy's budget, as well as our ability to provide the workforce, technologies, facilities, equipment and financial capacity needed to deliver those products and services with maximum efficiency. environmental, health and safety our manufacturing operations are subject to and affected by federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. we accrue the estimated costs to complete environmental remediation when we determine it is probable we will incur expenses in the future, in amounts we can reasonably estimate, to address environmental conditions at currently or formerly owned or leased operating facilities, or at sites where we are named a potentially responsible party ("prp") by the u.s. environmental protection agency ("epa") or similarly designated by another environmental agency. our estimated costs can change given the inherent difficulties in estimating future environmental remediation costs, caused by uncertainties regarding the extent of required remediation, determination of legally responsible parties and the status of laws and regulations and their interpretations. we assess the potential impact on our financial statements of future environmental remediation costs by estimating, on a site-by-site basis, the range of reasonably possible remediation costs that we could incur, taking into account currently available information at each site, the current state of technology and our prior experience in remediating contaminated sites. we review our estimates periodically and adjust them to reflect changes in facts, technology and legal circumstances. we record accruals for environmental remediation costs on an undiscounted basis in the accounting period in which it becomes probable we have incurred a liability and the costs can be reasonably estimated. we record insurance recoveries only when we determine that collection is probable, and we do not include any litigation costs related to environmental matters in our environmental remediation accrual. we expense or capitalize environmental expenditures as appropriate. capitalized expenditures relate to long-lived improvements in current operating facilities. we record environmental accruals at sites involving multiple parties based upon our expected share of liability, taking into account the financial viability of other jointly liable parties. we may incur remediation costs exceeding our accrued amount if other prps do not pay their allocable share of remediation costs, which could have a material effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. we estimate that, as of december 31, 2012 , our probable future costs for environmental remediation is approximately $2 million , which is accrued in other current liabilities in the consolidated statement of financial position. although information gained as projects progress may materially affect our accrued liability, we do not anticipate that future remediation expenditures will have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 8 table of contents we may incur environmental costs in the future related to our wind down of military shipbuilding at avondale. these costs are not reasonably estimable at this time, however, due to insufficient information about the nature, timing and extent of any potential environmental remediation we may be required to perform or the related costs that we may incur. accordingly, potential environmental costs associated with the wind down of avondale are not included in our $2 million accrual for environmental remediation or our $256 million estimate of avondale asset write-downs and restructuring costs, or otherwise reflected in our consolidated financial statements. we expect that a significant portion of any future environmental costs we incur at avondale would be recoverable, consistent with government accounting practices, under the federal acquisition regulations ("far"). we believe that we are in material compliance with all applicable environmental laws and regulations, and historical environmental compliance costs have not been material to our business. we could be affected by new environmental laws or regulations, including any enacted in response to climate change concerns and other actions known as "green initiatives." we have made the investments we believe are necessary to comply with environmental laws. we expect, however, to incur capital and operating costs in the future to comply with current and future environmental laws and regulations. at this time, however, we do not believe such costs will have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. with regard to occupational health and safety, the shipbuilding and ship repair industry involves work with hazardous materials and processes, and remains one of the most hazardous industry segments. according to the bureau of labor statistics, the shipbuilding and ship repair industry (naics 336611) ranks among the highest in several injury metrics. we have experience d five industr ial related fatalities in the past seven years. we strive to keep our occupational safety &amp; health administration ("osha") compliance programs strong. in 1995, our newport news shipyard became the first shipyard to be awarded the star award from osha's voluntary protection program ("osha vpp"). to earn this award, we joined efforts with our unions and supported participation in the osha vpp, in which all parties assist each other to make our shipyard a safer place to work. since then, our gulfport, mississippi and continental maritime of san diego facilities have also been certified as osha vpp star sites. the u.s. navy, nuclear regulatory commission and doe regulate and control various matters relating to nuclear materials we handle. subject to certain requirements and limitations, our contracts with the u.s. navy and doe generally provide for indemnity by the u.s. government for losses resulting from our nuclear operations. for our commercial nuclear operations, we rely primarily on insurance carried by nuclear facility operators for risk mitigation, and we maintain limited insurance coverage for losses in excess of the coverage of facility operators. employees we have approximately 37,000 employees. we are the largest industrial employer in virginia and the largest private employer in mississippi. our workforce contains many third-, fourth- and fifth-generation shipbuilding employees. we employ individuals specializing in 19 crafts and trades, approximately 5,000 engineers and designers and approximately 1,600 employees with advanced degrees. employees who have been with us or our predecessor companies for over 40 years achieve the title of master shipbuilder. as of december 31, 2012 , we had approximately 1,100 master shipbuilders, approximately 900 at newport news and approximately 200 at ingalls. we employ more than 5,500 veterans. our newport news apprentice school trains approximately 800 apprentices each year in 19 crafts and trades and several advanced programs. our ingalls apprentice school currently has approximately 300 registered apprentices in its programs. apprentices are paid as full-time employees for the duration of their studies, and usually continue to work with us upon graduation. from nuclear pipe welders to senior executives, approximately 2,900 alumni of the apprentice school at newport news and approximately 1,900 alumni of our ingalls apprentice school continue to work with us. approximately 50% of our approximately 37,000 employees are covered by a total of nine collective bargaining agreements. newport news has three collective bargaining agreements covering represented employees, which expire in march 2013, april 2014 and june 2014. ingalls has six collective bargaining agreements covering represented employees, five of which cover pascagoula and gulfport employees and one of which covers avondale employees. the five pascagoula/gulfport collective bargaining agreements expire in march 2015, and the avondale collective bargaining agreement was indefinitely extended upon its last expiration. we believe that our relationship with our employees is satisfactory. 9 table of contents available information our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, and current reports on form 8-k, as well as any amendments to those reports, are available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we file them with the securities and exchange commission ("sec"). you can learn more about us by reviewing our sec filings on the investor relations page on our website at www.huntingtoningalls.com. our sec filings are also at the public reference room of the sec at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. you may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling 1-800-sec-0330. the sec also maintains a website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy statements and other information about sec registrants, including us. executive officers of the registrant see executive officers of the registrant in item 4a for information about our executive officers. forward-looking statements statements in this annual report on form 10-k and in our other filings with the sec, as well as other statements we may make from time to time, other than statements of historical fact, constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in these statements. factors that may cause such differences include: changes in government and customer priorities and requirements (including government budgetary constraints, shifts in defense spending, and changes in customer short-range and long-range plans); our ability to obtain new contracts, estimate our future contract costs and perform our contracts effectively; changes in government regulations and procurement processes and our ability to comply with such requirements; our ability to realize the expected benefits from consolidation of our ingalls facilities; natural disasters; adverse economic conditions in the united states and globally; risks related to our indebtedness and leverage; and other risk factors discussed herein and in our filings with the sec. there may be other risks and uncertainties that we are unable to predict at this time or that we currently do not expect to have a material adverse effect on our business, and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements. you should not place undue reliance on any forward looking statements that we may make. 10 table of contents item 1a. risk factors an investment in our common stock or debt securities involves risks and uncertainties. we seek to identify, manage, and mitigate risks to our business, but risk and uncertainty cannot be eliminated or necessarily predicted. you should consider the following factors carefully, in addition to the other information contained in this annual report on form 10-k, before deciding to purchase our securities. risks related to our business we depend heavily on a single customer, the u.s. government, for substantially all of our business, and changes affecting this customer's ability to do business with us could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. our business is primarily dependent upon the design, construction, repair, maintenance, fleet support and life cycle services of nuclear-powered ships, such as aircraft carriers and submarines, and non-nuclear ships, such as surface combatants and expeditionary warfare and amphibious assault ships, for the u.s. navy and coastal defense surface ships for the u.s. coast guard, as well as the refueling and overhaul of nuclear-powered ships for the u.s. navy. substantially all of our revenues in 2012 were derived from products and services ultimately sold to the u.s. government, and we expect this to continue in the foreseeable future. in addition, substantially all of our backlog was u.s. government related as of december 31, 2012 . we are a supplier, either directly or as a subcontractor or team member, to the u.s. government and its agencies. the related contracts are subject to various risks, including our customers' political and budgetary constraints and processes, changes in customers' short-range and long-range strategic plans, the timing of contract awards, significant changes in contract scheduling, intense contract and funding competition, difficulty in forecasting costs and schedules for bids on developmental and highly sophisticated technical work, delays in the timing of contract approval, and contractor suspension or debarment in the event of certain violations of legal or regulatory requirements. any of these factors could affect our ability to do business with the u.s. government, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. contracts with the u.s. government are subject to uncertain levels of funding, modification due to changes in customer priorities and potential termination. we are directly dependent upon congressional allocation of defense funds to the u.s. navy and the u.s. coast guard. the funding of u.s. government programs is subject to congressional budget authorization and appropriation processes. for certain programs, congress appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis even though a program may be performed over several fiscal years. consequently, programs are often partially funded initially and may receive additional funding only as congress makes further appropriations. if we incur costs in excess of existing funding on a contract, we may be at risk for reimbursement of those costs until additional funds are appropriated. we cannot predict the extent to which total funding or funding for individual programs will be included, increased or reduced as part of the annual budget process, in continuing resolutions, or in individual supplemental appropriations. the impact of congressional actions to reduce the debt and resulting pressures on federal spending could adversely affect the total funding of individual ships or funding for individual programs and delay purchasing or payment decisions by our customers. the level of future appropriations for defense programs became more uncertain following congress' consideration of the debt ceiling in august 2011 and the failure of a joint committee of congress to identify up to $1.2 trillion in deficit reductions in november 2011, as required under the budget control act of 2011 ("budget control act"). as a result of such failure, up to $500 billion in automatic spending cuts to defense programs from 2013 to 2021, representing approximately 9% of planned defense spending, plus an additional $500 billion to non-defense discretionary programs over this period, including the u.s. coast guard, could be triggered under the budget control act beginning in 2013, or cuts could be effected through other congressional actions. this sequestration could result in the cancellation of or decreased funding for our existing programs and/or a lack of funding for future programs. the budget control act cut a total of $487 billion from defense spending over the next decade, representing approximately 8% of planned defense spending, and the $500 billion of sequestration cuts in defense programs would be added to that amount. the american taxpayer relief act of 2012 ("american taxpayer relief act") enacted on january 2, 2013, delayed the implementation of sequestration to march 1, 2013. the delay in sequestration leaves the dod less time to enact the 2013 automatic spending cuts, adding to the uncertainty from such cuts. the federal debt ceiling is also 11 table of contents expected to be reached in the first half of 2013. congress and the administration continue to debate these issues, and the outcome of that debate could have a significant impact on future defense spending plans. u.s. government operations, including defense programs, for fiscal year 2013 are being funded under a continuing resolution ("cr"), which expires on march 27, 2013. the cr generally provides funding at fiscal year 2012 levels and effectively eliminates new contract starts, which impacts some of the programs in which we participate. for example, the u.s. navy has announced that commencement of the rcoh for cvn-72 uss abraham lincoln , which had been scheduled for february 2013, will be postponed due to funding uncertainty resulting from the absence of a defense appropriations bill for fiscal year 2013. it is unclear whether annual appropriations bills will be passed for fiscal year 2013. the u.s. government may operate under a cr for all of fiscal year 2013, potentially resulting in no new contract or program starts for the fiscal year. any significant delays in contract starts affecting our programs could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. the impact of the continuing federal fiscal debates remains uncertain, and we cannot predict the impact that the delayed sequestration cuts, other defense spending cuts, or lack of a current year defense appropriations bill will have on funding for our individual programs. long-term funding for certain programs in which we participate may be reduced, delayed or cancelled. in addition, defense spending cuts and delays could adversely affect the viability of our suppliers and subcontractors. our contracts or subcontracts under programs in which we participate may be terminated or adjusted by the u.s. government or the prime contractor as a result of lack of government funding or reductions or delays in government funding, which would adversely affect our future sales under such programs and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. we also cannot predict the impact of potential changes in customer priorities due to military transformation and planning or the nature of war related activity on existing, follow-on or replacement programs. a shift of government priorities to programs in which we do not participate and/or reductions in funding for or the termination of programs in which we do participate could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. the u.s. government generally has the ability to terminate contracts, in whole or in part, with little to no prior notice, for convenience or for default based on performance. in the event of termination for the u.s. government's convenience, contractors are normally protected by provisions covering reimbursement for costs already incurred on the contracts and profit related to those costs but not the anticipated profit that would have been earned had the contract been completed. such a termination could also result in the cancellation of future work on the related program. termination resulting from our default can expose us to various liabilities, including excess re-procurement costs, and could negatively affect our ability to compete for future contracts. any contract termination could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. cost growth on fixed price and other contracts that cannot be justified as increases in contract value due from customers exposes us to reduced profitability and to the potential loss of future business. our operating income is adversely affected when we incur certain contract costs or certain increases in contract costs that cannot be billed to customers. cost growth can occur if expenses to complete a contract increase due to technical challenges, manufacturing difficulties, delays, workforce-related issues or inaccurate initial estimates used for calculating the contract cost. reasons may include unavailability or reduced productivity of labor, the nature and complexity of the work to be performed, the timeliness and availability of materials, major subcontractor performance and product quality, performance delays, availability and timing of funding from the customer and natural disasters. the process of estimating contract costs requires significant judgment and expertise. a significant increase in contract costs from our original cost estimates on one or more programs could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. our ability to recover the costs we incur and realize profits on contracts with our u.s. government customer depends on the type of contract under which we are performing. our u.s. government business is currently performed under firm fixed price ("ffp"), fixed price incentive ("fpi"), cost plus incentive fee ("cpif"), cost plus fixed fee ("cpff") and cost plus award fee ("cpaf") contracts. under ffp contracts, we retain all cost savings on completed contracts but are responsible for the full amount of all expenditures in excess of the contract price. fpi contracts, on the other hand, are flexibly priced agreements under which overruns and underruns to an agreed target cost are shared between the u.s. government and us. the u.s. government is liable for its share of allowable costs up to a ceiling price, and we are responsible for all costs incurred in excess of such ceiling price, 12 table of contents typically 125-135% of target cost. our profit on fpi contracts varies according to a formula set forth in the contract that generally compares the amount of costs incurred to the contract target cost. under cpif, cpff and cpaf contracts, we are generally required to perform the contract only to the extent the u.s. government makes funds available, and we recover all allowable costs incurred in the performance of the contract. under cpif contracts, our profit is determined by a contractually specified formula that compares allowable incurred costs to the contract target cost, subject in some instances to a maximum or minimum fee percentage. under cpff contracts, the dollar amount of profit received is the same without regard to the amount of costs incurred. under cpaf contracts, the dollar amount of profit received is determined by the award fee provisions in the contract. of ingalls ' revenues in 2012 , approximately 78% were generated from fpi contracts, approximately 11% were generated from cpaf contracts, approximately 9% were generated from cpff contracts, and approximately 2% were generated from ffp contracts. of newport news' 2012 revenues, approximately 42% were generated from cpif contracts, which primarily included aircraft carrier construction and rcoh, approximately 32% were generated from cpff contracts, approximately 24% were generated from fpi contracts, consisting primarily of submarine construction, approximately 1% were generated from cpaf contracts, and approximately 1% were generated from ffp contracts. to the extent our mix of contract types change in the future, our ability to recover our costs and realize profits on our contracts can be negatively affected. our earnings and margins depend on our ability to perform under contracts. when agreeing to contract terms, we make assumptions and projections about future conditions and events, many of which extend over long periods. these projections assess the productivity and availability of labor, the complexity of the work to be performed, the cost and availability of materials, the impact of delayed performance and the timing of product deliveries. we may experience significant variances from our assumptions and projections, delays in our contract performance and variances in the timing of our product deliveries. if actual events differ significantly from one or more of our assumptions, projections or estimates, or if we incur unanticipated contract costs, the profitability of the related contracts may be adversely affected. our earnings and margins depend, in part, on subcontractor performance and raw material and component availability and pricing. we rely on other companies to provide raw materials, major components and sub-systems for our products, and we rely on subcontractors to produce hardware elements and sub-assemblies and perform certain services that we provide to our customers. we are subject to potential delivery disruptions and performance problems caused by our suppliers and subcontractors. our ability to perform our obligations as a prime contractor could be adversely affected if one or more of our suppliers or subcontractors are unable to provide the agreed-upon products or materials or perform the agreed-upon services in a timely and cost-effective manner. our costs to manufacture our products can increase over the terms of our contracts. through cost escalation provisions contained in some of our u.s. government contracts, we may be protected from increases in material costs to the extent that such increases are consistent with industry indices. even with these provisions, however, the difference in basis between our actual material costs and these indices may expose us to cost uncertainty. in addition, significant delay in deliveries of key raw materials, which may occur as a result of availability or price, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. in connection with our government contracts, we are required to procure certain raw materials, components and parts from supply sources approved by the u.s. government. due largely to the consolidation of the defense industry, there are currently certain components for which only one supplier exists. the inability of a sole source supplier to provide a necessary component in a timely or cost-effective manner could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. our results of operations depend on awards of new contracts. the prospects of u.s. shipyards, including ours, are materially affected by their success in securing significant u.s. navy contract awards. in february 2006, the u.s. navy presented to congress a goal of achieving and maintaining a fleet of 313 ships. each year, the u.s. navy presents to congress the navy's annual report to congress on long-range plan for construction of naval vessels (the "shipbuilding plan"), which includes the navy's shipbuilding plan for the next five years and a long-range projection of new ship construction for the following 25 years. the u.s. navy's shipbuilding plan for fiscal year 2013 (the "2013 shipbuilding plan") included a 13 table of contents fleet goal of 310 to 316 ships, down from the fleet goal of 328 ships included in the navy's shipbuilding plan for fiscal year 2012 (the "2012 shipbuilding plan"), and the procurement of 268 ships over the next 30 years, down from the 275-ship procurement included in the 2012 shipbuilding plan. the dod released in january 2012 the defense strategic guidance, a new set of strategic military priorities and guidance. the u.s. navy recently released its 2013 navy combatant vessel force structure assessment (the "2013 force structure assessment"), a comprehensive description of the navy's current ship requirements in light of the defense strategic guidance. the 2013 force structure assessment includes a fleet of 306 ships as a baseline. significant reductions in the number of ships procured by the u.s. navy would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. we believe our shipbuilding programs are a high priority for national defense, but, under budgetary pressures, one or more of our programs may be reduced, extended or terminated by our u.s. government customers. specific actions already taken that could negatively affect us include the deferral of production of new amphibious ships, the reduction in the number of planned large surface combatants, an increase in the procurement interval for aircraft carriers beyond five years, and postponement of the commencement of the rcoh for cvn-72 uss abraham lincoln . in response to the need for cheaper alternatives and the proliferation of "smart weapons," future strategy reassessments by the dod may result in a decreased need for our shipbuilding programs, including our aircraft carrier programs. for the year ended december 31, 2012 , our aircraft carrier programs accounted for approximately 40% of our consolidated revenue. significant reductions in congressional appropriations for our shipbuilding programs or significant delays in such appropriations could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. the department of defense has announced plans for significant changes to its business practices that could have a material effect on its overall procurement process and adversely impact our current programs and potential new awards. in november 2010, the dod announced certain initiatives designed to gain efficiencies, refocus priorities and enhance business practices used by the dod, including those used to procure goods and services from defense contractors. these initiatives are organized into five major areas: affordability and cost growth; productivity and innovation; competition; services acquisition; and processes and bureaucracy. our understanding is that these initiatives are intended to reduce costs and enhance efficiencies and productivity. as described by a senior dod official, they are intended to enable the dod to do more without more. in november 2012, the dod further expanded its focus on business process improvement by introducing better buying power 2.0 ("bbp 2.0") to enhance its focus on the acquisition workforce by establishing higher standards and stronger professional qualification requirements for key leadership positions and continuing to increase the cost consciousness of the acquisition workforce. bbp 2.0 also includes new initiatives focused on enforcing affordability caps, controlling costs through cost performance measures, encouraging stronger partnerships with the requirements community, and incentivizing industry by aligning profitability more tightly with dod goals and employing appropriate contract types. dod's focus on business practices is expected to impact the contracting environment in which we do business with our dod customers as we and others in the industry adjust our practices to address the new initiatives and the reduced level of spending by the dod. we are taking steps internally to assess how we can respond to and support these changes, including how we can further reduce costs and increase productivity, modify how we respond to proposals and revise our areas of focus. depending on how these initiatives are implemented, they could have an impact on current programs, as well as new business opportunities. our future success depends, in part, on our ability to deliver our products and services at an affordable life cycle cost, requiring us to develop and maintain technologies, facilities, equipment and a qualified workforce to meet the needs of current and future customers. shipbuilding is a long cycle business, and our success depends on quality, cost and schedule performance on our contracts. we must develop and sustain the workforce, technologies, facilities, equipment and financial capacity needed to deliver our products and services at an affordable life cycle cost. if we fail to maintain our competitive position, we could lose a significant amount of future business to our competitors, which would cause us to lose market share and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. our operating results are heavily dependent upon our ability to attract and retain a sufficient number of engineers and skilled workers at competitive costs and with requisite skills and/or security clearances. at the same time, stable future revenues and costs are important for us to maintain a qualified workforce. development and 14 table of contents maintenance of the necessary nuclear expertise and the challenges of hiring and training a qualified workforce can be a limitation on our business. if qualified personnel become scarce, we could experience higher labor, recruiting or training costs to attract and retain qualified employees, or, if we fail to attract and retain qualified personnel, we could incur difficulties in performing our contracts or attracting new business. competition within our markets or an increase in bid protests may reduce our revenues and market share. we believe the programs and number of ship constructions, refuelings and overhauls and inactivations currently planned by the u.s. navy over the next several years will remain relatively steady; however, u.s. defense spending levels are uncertain and difficult to predict. while the u.s. navy's 2013 shipbuilding plan anticipates a fleet size of 310 to 316 ships, the plan does not include enough ships to fully support all elements of the navy's 310 to 316 ships goal over the 30-year period. the u.s. navy currently projects that shortfalls would occur at various points during this 30-year period in ballistic missile submarines, cruisers-destroyers, attack submarines and amphibious ships. the u.s. navy recently released the 2013 force structure assessment to address the navy's current ship requirements in light of the defense strategic guidance released by the dod in 2012. the 2013 force structure assessment includes a fleet of 306 ships as a baseline . reductions in u.s. defense spending that reduce the demand for the types of ships we build and services we provide increase our risk exposure to market competition. we compete with another large defense contractor for construction contracts to build surface combatants, and we may in the future compete with the same and other defense contractors to build our products. if we are unable to continue to compete successfully against our current or future competitors, we may experience declines in revenues and market share, which could negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. although we are the only company currently capable of refueling nuclear-powered aircraft carriers, we believe that two existing u.s. government-owned shipyards, one in the pacific northwest and the other in the mid-atlantic, could refuel nuclear-powered aircraft carriers if substantial investments in facilities, personnel and training were made. u.s. government-owned shipyards engage in the refueling, overhaul and inactivation of ssn-688 los angeles -class submarines and are capable of repairing and overhauling non-nuclear ships. the 2012 act required dod to develop a core depot level maintenance capability to refuel nuclear aircraft carriers. the 2013 act, however, modified the 2012 act by restoring an exception for the nuclear refueling of an aircraft carrier from the definition of core depot level maintenance. the 2013 act also amended and clarified the exception to cover the concurrent refueling and overhaul of an aircraft carrier, as well as the defueling of an aircraft carrier. similarly, the 2013 act restored an exclusion for nuclear aircraft carrier programs from the definition of core logistics capabilities that was found in previous law. if a u.s. government-owned shipyard were to become capable and engaged in the business of refueling nuclear-powered aircraft carriers, our financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. we also compete in the engineering, planning and design market with other companies that provide engineering support services. there can be no assurance that we will be the successful bidder on future u.s. navy engineering proposals, including aircraft carrier research and development, submarine design and future surface combatant and amphibious assault ship programs. our competitive environment is also affected by bid protests from unsuccessful bidders on new program awards. as the competitive environment intensifies, the number of bid protests may increase. bid protests can result in an award decision being overturned, requiring a re-bid of the contract. even when a bid protest does not result in a re-bid, resolution of the matter typically extends the time until contract performance can begin, which may reduce our earnings in the period in which the contract would otherwise have performed. overcapacity in the u.s. shipbuilding market may reduce our market share or our ability to secure contract awards at profitable prices. the reduced level of shipbuilding activity by the u.s. navy, evidenced by the reduction in fleet size from 566 ships in 1989 to 288 ships as of december 31, 2012, has resulted in workforce reductions in the industry but little infrastructure consolidation. the general result has been fewer contracts awarded to the same fixed number of shipyards. six major private united states shipyards, three of which are our shipyards, plus numerous other smaller private shipyards compete for contracts to construct, overhaul, repair and convert naval vessels. we have announced our intention to cease all military shipbuilding operations in our louisiana facilities by the end of 2013. competition for future shipbuilding programs is expected to be intense. additionally, our products, such as aircraft carriers, submarines, amphibious assault ships, surface combatants and other ships, compete for funding with each 15 table of contents other, as well as with other defense products and services. future rationalization of shipyard capacity in the united states might occur, and we could be affected by shipyard consolidation or closures as a result of the reduced level of u.s. navy spending on ship construction. any further reduction could have a significant effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. as a u.s. government contractor, we are heavily regulated and could be adversely affected by changes in regulations or any negative findings from a u.s. government audit or investigation. u.s. government contractors must comply with a variety of significant regulations, including procurement, nuclear and other requirements. these regulations and related requirements, although customary in government contracts, increase our performance and compliance costs. our nuclear operations are subject to an enhanced regulatory environment, which mandates increased performance and compliance efforts and costs. changes in regulations and related requirements can increase our compliance costs and reduce our profit margins. we operate in a highly regulated environment and are routinely audited and reviewed by the u.s. government and its various agencies, such as the u.s. navy's supervisor of shipbuilding, the dcaa and the dcma. these agencies review our contract performance, cost structures and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards, as well as the adequacy of, and our compliance with, our internal control systems and internal policies. systems subject to audit or review include our accounting systems, purchasing systems, billing systems, property management and control systems, cost estimating systems, compensation systems and management information systems. any costs we incur that are found to be unallowable or improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed or must be refunded if previously reimbursed. if an audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension and prohibition from doing business with the u.s. government. allegations of impropriety can also cause us significant reputational harm. whether or not illegal activities are alleged, the u.s. government has the ability, pursuant to recent regulations relating to contractor business systems, to decrease or withhold contract payments, if it determines significant deficiencies exist in one or more such systems. we have existing contracts subject to the new contractor business systems regulations and expect our future contracts to be subject to such regulations. for our contracts subject to the new regulations, the u.s. government has, in certain instances, withheld payments upon its assessment that deficiencies exist with one or more of our business systems. we are modifying our affected business systems to address the u.s. government's concerns. as with other government contractors, the u.s. government has, from time to time, recommended that certain of our contract prices be reduced, or that certain costs allocated to our contracts be disallowed. these recommendations sometimes involve substantial amounts. in response to u.s. government audits, investigations and inquiries, we have on occasion in the past made minor adjustments to our contract prices and the costs allocated to our government contracts. such audits, investigations and inquiries may result in reductions of our contract prices in the future. we are also subject, from time to time, to u.s. government investigations relating to our operations, and we are subject to or are expected to comply with a variety of federal laws, including the truth in negotiations act, the false claims act, the procurement integrity act, the international traffic in arms regulations promulgated under the arms export control act, the close the contractor fraud loophole act, the foreign corrupt practices act and cost accounting standards. if we are convicted or otherwise found to have violated the law, or are found not to have acted responsibly as defined by the law, we may be subject to reductions in the value of contracts, contract modifications or terminations, the assessment of penalties and fines or compensatory or treble damages, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. such findings or convictions could also result in suspension or debarment from government contracting. given our dependence on government contracting, suspension or debarment would likely have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 16 table of contents many of our contracts contain performance obligations that require innovative design capabilities, are technologically complex, require certain manufacturing expertise or are dependent upon factors not wholly within our control, and failure to meet these obligations could adversely affect our profitability and future prospects. we design, develop and manufacture products and provide services applied by our customers in a variety of environments. problems and delays in development or delivery of subcontractor components or services as a result of issues with respect to design, technology, licensing and intellectual property rights, labor, learning curve assumptions or materials and components could prevent us from satisfying contractual requirements. first-in-class ships, also known as lead ships, usually have new technology that is supplied by the u.s. navy, other contractors, or us. problems in developing these new technologies or design changes in the construction process can lead to delays in maintaining the design schedule needed for construction. the risk associated with new technology or mid-construction design changes can both increase the cost of a ship and delay delivery. late delivery of information can cause inefficiencies in the construction process, increase costs and put the delivery schedule at risk, which could adversely affect our profitability and future prospects. our products cannot always be tested and proven and are otherwise subject to unforeseen problems, including premature failure of products that cannot be accessed for repair or replacement, substandard quality or workmanship and unplanned degradation of product performance. these failures could result in loss of life or property and could negatively affect our results of operations by causing unanticipated expenses not covered by insurance or indemnification from the customer, diversion of management focus in responding to unforeseen problems, loss of follow-on work and, in the case of certain contracts, repayment to the government customer of contract cost and fee payments previously received. we have experienced quality issues in the past with respect to products and services that we sell to our u.s. government customer. these issues have required significant resources to analyze the source of the deficiencies and implement corrective actions. we may discover additional quality issues in the future related to our products and services that require analysis and corrective action. such quality issues that might arise in the future could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. we may not realize the anticipated benefits or may incur additional costs related to the wind down of military shipbuilding at our louisiana facilities and the consolidation of all ingalls construction into our mississippi facilities. we have announced our intention to wind down military shipbuilding at avondale, our louisiana shipyard, by the end of 2013 and two louisiana components facilities in 2013, after delivering lpd-25 somerset , the san antonio -class ship currently under construction at avondale, and consolidate all ingalls military shipbuilding into our mississippi facilities. we intend to shift construction of future lpd-class ships to a single production line at our pascagoula shipyard to reduce costs and increase efficiency. we cannot provide any assurances that shifting avondale ' military shipbuilding to our pascagoula facility will result in our realization of anticipated benefits from serial production at that facility. in connection with the increased utilization of our employees and facilities in our pascagoula shipyard, we may encounter difficulties adhering to back-to-back production schedules. an inability to adhere to production schedules could have an adverse effect on our ability to timely perform our existing contracts and our ability to obtain new contracts in the future. moreover, the concentration of our ingalls workforce in pascagoula and gulfport may inhibit our ability to attract and retain a sufficient number of skilled and trained employees to perform the increased workload in these locations. any failure to attract and retain the necessary workforce, or to effectively manage and control third-party contractors, could adversely affect our ability to perform our contracts and have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. we anticipate that we will incur substantial restructuring costs and asset write-downs, currently estimated at $256 million , related to the wind down of our operations at avondale. we believe that substantially all such expenses will be recoverable under existing flexibly-priced contracts or future negotiated contracts in accordance with far provisions governing the treatment of restructuring and shutdown related costs. the dcaa prepared an initial audit report on our july 30, 2010, cost recovery proposal of $310 million, which stated that the proposal was not adequately supported for the dcaa to reach a conclusion and questioned approximately $25 million , or 8% , of the costs included in the proposal. we then submitted a revised proposal dated october 12, 2011 to address the concerns of the dcaa and to reflect a revised estimated total cost of $ 271 million . we received a supplemental audit report, which again stated that the proposal was not sufficiently supported to allow the dcaa to reach a 17 table of contents conclusion. the amount and percentage of questioned costs were materially unchanged from the previous audit report. we intend to submit another revised proposal that addresses the dcaa concerns and supports our current restructuring cost estimate of $256 million . although closure is still the baseline assumption for avondale, we are pursuing engineering and manufacturing opportunities in the energy infrastructure market. if we are successful in pursuing such opportunities, and avondale remains open, we would submit a revised restructuring proposal to the u.s. navy consistent with this change. in such event, we expect that our total estimated restructuring costs would decrease. while the restructuring costs that are currently capitalized as incurred, consisting primarily of severance and retention payments, should remain recoverable under existing or future u.s. navy contracts, other avondale costs would remain as part of avondale's new line of business. whether we close avondale entirely or keep the facility open in a new line of business, we currently do not have an agreement with the u.s. navy regarding the government contract accounting and pricing treatment of the restructuring and shutdown costs associated with our wind down at avondale. we may also incur environmental costs in connection with the wind down. these potential costs, of which we are not currently aware and which we cannot reasonably estimate at this time, could be significant. the actual restructuring expenses we incur in connection with our wind down of avondale, including potential environmental costs, may be greater than our current estimate, and any inability to recover such costs could result in a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. we use estimates when accounting for contracts. changes in estimates could affect our profitability and our overall financial position. contract accounting requires judgment relative to assessing risks, estimating contract revenues and costs, and making assumptions for schedule and technical issues. the size and nature of many of our contracts makes the estimation of total revenues and costs at completion complicated and subject to many variables. for new shipbuilding programs, we estimate, negotiate and contract for construction on ships that are not completely designed. assessing risks, estimating contract revenues and costs and making assumptions for schedule and technical issues for these ships are subject to the variability of the final ship design and evolving scope of work. assumptions must be made for all ship contracts regarding the length of time to complete the contract, because costs include expected increases in wages and prices for materials. similarly, assumptions must be made regarding the future impact of our efficiency initiatives and cost reduction efforts. incentives, awards and penalties related to contract performance are considered in estimating revenues and profit rates, and are recorded when sufficient information exists to assess anticipated contract performance. because of the significance of the judgment and estimation processes described above to our contract accounting, materially different amounts can be generated if different assumptions are used or if actual events differ from our assumptions. future changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates may have a material adverse effect upon our future financial position, results of operations or cash flows. see critical accounting policies, estimates, and judgments in item 7. our business is subject to disruption caused by natural disasters, environmental disasters and other factors that could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. we have significant operations located in regions of the united states that have been and may be exposed to damaging storms, such as hurricanes, floods, and environmental disasters, such as oil spills. although preventative measures may help to mitigate damage, the damage and disruption resulting from natural and environmental disasters may be significant. natural disasters could disrupt our facilities, systems or projects, which could interrupt operational processes and performance on our contracts. in addition, should insurance or other risk transfer mechanisms be unavailable or insufficient to recover all costs, we could experience a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. see our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover all of our significant risks or our insurers may deny coverage of material losses we incur, which could adversely affect our profitability and financial position in this section . our suppliers and subcontractors are also subject to natural and environmental disasters that could affect their ability to deliver or perform their contracts. performance failures by our subcontractors due to natural or environmental disasters may adversely affect our ability to perform our obligations on a contract, which could 18 table of contents reduce our profitability in the event damages or other costs are not recoverable from the subcontractor, the customer or insurers. such events could also result in a termination of the prime contract and have an adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts. natural disasters can also disrupt our workforce, electrical and other power distribution networks, including computer and internet operations and accessibility, and the critical industrial infrastructure needed for normal business operations. these disruptions could adversely affect our contract performance and financial results. environmental disasters, particularly oil spills in waterways and bodies of water used for the transport and testing of our ships, can disrupt the timing of our performance under our contracts with the u.s. navy and the u.s. coast guard. our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover all of our significant risks or our insurers may deny coverage of material losses we incur, which could adversely affect our profitability and financial position. we seek to identify and obtain, in established markets, insurance agreements to cover our significant risks and potential liabilities, including, among others, natural disasters, product liability and business interruption resulting from an insured property loss. in some, but not all, circumstances, we may be indemnified for losses by the u.s. government, subject to the availability of appropriated funds. not every risk or liability can be protected by insurance, and, for insurable risks, the limits of coverage reasonably obtainable in the market may not be sufficient to cover the full amount of actual losses or liabilities incurred, including, for example, in the case of a catastrophic hurricane. in addition, the nature of our business makes it difficult to quantify the disruptive impact of such events. such limitations on the availability of insurance coverage may result in us bearing substantial costs for uninsured losses that could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. even in cases where we have insurance coverage, disputes with insurance carriers over coverage may affect the timing of cash flows, and, if litigation with the insurance carrier becomes necessary, an outcome unfavorable to us may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. our business could suffer if we are unsuccessful in negotiating new collective bargaining agreements. approximately 50% of our approximately 37,000 employees are covered by a total of nine collective bargaining agreements. newport news has three collective bargaining agreements covering represented employees, which expire in march 2013, april 2014 and june 2014. ingalls has six collective bargaining agreements covering represented employees, five of which cover pascagoula and gulfport employees and one of which covers avondale employees. the five pascagoula/gulfport collective bargaining agreements expire in march 2015, and the avondale collective bargaining agreement was indefinitely extended upon its last expiration. we must negotiate successor agreements as each of our collective bargaining agreements expires. collective bargaining agreements generally expire after three to five years and are subject to renegotiation at that time. while we believe we maintain good relationships with our represented workers, it is possible that we may experience difficulties with renegotiating expiring collective bargaining agreements. we have, in the past, experienced work stoppages, strikes and other labor disruptions associated with the collective bargaining of new labor agreements. if we experience such events in the future, we could incur additional expenses or delays that could adversely affect programs served by employees who are covered by collective bargaining agreements. significant changes in key estimates and assumptions, such as discount rates and assumed long-term returns on assets, actual investment returns on our pension plan assets, and legislative and regulatory actions could affect our earnings, equity and contributions to our pension and retiree health care plans in future periods. our pension and retiree health care costs are dependent on significant judgment in the use of various estimates and assumptions, particularly with respect to assumptions regarding the discount rate and expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. variances from these estimates and assumptions could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. differences between actual investment returns and our assumed long-term return on assets will result in changes in future pension expense and the funded status of our plans, and could increase future funding to the plans. timing differences exist between the accrual of pension costs under accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america ("gaap"), pension funding requirements and the recovery of pension costs that are allowable under our government contracts. such timing differences could have a material adverse effect on our 19 table of contents cash flow from operations. on december 27, 2011, the u.s. cost accounting standards ("cas") board issued its final cas harmonization rule (the "harmonization rule"). the new rule will impact pension costs on contracts beginning in 2013 and is effective for forward pricing purposes for contracts negotiated on or after february 27, 2012. although we believe that contractors are entitled to an equitable adjustment on cas-covered contracts awarded prior to the february 27, 2012 effective date, the application of this rule could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows if we are unable to successfully recover such equitable adjustment. for a complete discussion regarding how our consolidated financial statements can be affected by pension plan accounting policies and regulatory changes, see critical accounting policies, estimates, and judgments in item 7. unforeseen environmental costs could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. our operations are subject to and affected by a variety of existing federal, state and local environmental protection laws and regulations. in addition, we could be affected by future laws or regulations, including those imposed in response to climate change concerns or other actions commonly referred to as "green initiatives." we expect to incur future capital and operating costs to comply with current and future environmental laws and regulations, and such costs could be substantial, depending on the future proliferation of environmental rules and regulations and the extent to which we discover currently unknown environmental conditions . the nature of shipbuilding operations requires the use of hazardous materials. our shipyards also generate significant quantities of wastewater, which we treat before discharging pursuant to various permits. in order to handle these materials, our shipyards have an extensive network of aboveground and underground storage tanks, some of which have leaked and required remediation in the past. in addition, handling of these materials sometimes results in spills in our shipyards and occasionally in adjacent rivers and waterways where we operate. our shipyards maintain extensive waste handling programs that we periodically modify, consistent with changes in applicable regulations. see environmental, health and safety in item 1. various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations impose restrictions on the discharge of pollutants into the environment and establish standards for the transportation, storage and disposal of toxic and hazardous wastes. stringent fines and penalties may be imposed for noncompliance, and certain environmental laws impose joint and several "strict liability" for remediation of spills and releases of oil and hazardous substances. such laws and regulations render a party liable for environmental cleanup and remediation costs and damage without regard to negligence or fault on the part of such party, and may expose us to liability for the conduct of or conditions caused by third parties. environmental laws and regulations also impose substantial fines and criminal sanctions for violations, and may require the installation of costly pollution control equipment or operational changes to limit pollution emissions or discharges and/or decrease the likelihood of accidental hazardous substance releases. we incur, and expect to continue to incur, costs to comply with current federal and state environmental laws and regulations related to the cleanup of pollutants previously released into the environment. in addition, if we are found to be in violation of the clean air act or the clean water act, the facility or facilities involved in the violation could be placed by the epa on the "excluded parties list" maintained by the general services administration, which would continue until the epa concluded that the cause of the violation was cured. facilities on the "excluded parties list" are prohibited from working on any u.s. government contract. the adoption of new environmental laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, imposition of new cleanup requirements, discovery of previously unknown or more extensive contamination, litigation involving environmental impacts, our inability to recover related costs under previously priced contracts or the financial insolvency of other responsible parties could cause us to incur costs in the future that could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. we have announced our intention to wind down military shipbuilding at our louisiana facilities, which we anticipate will be completed by the end of 2013. our wind down of operations at these facilities may result in environmental costs, the amount of which we cannot currently estimate. such costs could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 20 table of contents market volatility and adverse capital or credit market conditions may affect our ability to access cost-effective sources of funding and expose us to risks associated with the financial viability of suppliers and the ability of counterparties to perform on financial instruments. the financial and credit markets have historically experienced high levels of volatility and disruption, reducing the availability of credit for certain issuers. we may access these markets to support certain business activities, including acquisitions and capital expansion projects, obtaining credit support for our workers' compensation self-insurance program, refinancing existing debt and issuing letters of credit. depending on the condition of the capital or credit markets existing at the time, we may be unable in the future to obtain capital market financing or bank financing on favorable terms, or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. a tightening of credit could also adversely affect our suppliers' ability to obtain financing. delays in suppliers' ability to obtain financing, or the unavailability of financing, could negatively affect their ability to perform their contracts with us and cause our inability to meet our contract obligations. the inability of our suppliers to obtain financing could also result in the need for us to transition to alternate suppliers, which could result in significant incremental costs and delays. we have existing agreements with counterparties in the financial markets, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks and other institutional parties, and may in the future enter into agreements with such parties. these transactions expose us to potential credit risk in the event of default of a counterparty. in addition, our credit risk may be increased when collateral held by us to secure performance of a counterparty cannot be realized upon a sale or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount due us. our reputation and our ability to do business may be impacted by the improper conduct of employees, agents or business partners. we have implemented extensive compliance controls, policies and procedures to prevent and detect reckless or criminal acts committed by employees, agents or business partners that would violate the laws of the jurisdictions in which we operate, including laws governing payments to government officials, security clearance breaches, cost accounting and billing, competition and data privacy. we may not, however, prevent all such reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees, agents or business partners. any improper actions could subject us to civil and criminal investigations and monetary and non-monetary penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. in january 2013, we disclosed to the dod, including the u.s. navy, and the u.s. department of homeland security, including the u.s. coast guard, pursuant to the far, that we had initiated an internal investigation regarding whether certain employees at ingalls mischarged time or misstated progress on u.s. navy and u.s. coast guard contracts. we are conducting an internal investigation, led by external counsel, and have taken remedial actions, including the termination of employees in instances where we believed grounds for termination existed. we are providing information regarding our investigation to the relevant government agencies. we have agreed with the u.s. navy and u.s. coast guard to a withhold of $24 million in payments on existing contracts pending additional information from our internal investigation. some or all of these funds may be released from the withhold based upon the results of the investigation. depending upon the u.s. government's assessment of the matters under investigation, we could be subject to significant civil penalties, criminal fines, and suspension or debarment from u.s. government contracting. although we do not currently believe that this matter will have a material effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, we cannot predict what new information might come to light in the future and can therefore give no assurances regarding the ultimate outcome of this matter. our business could be negatively impacted by security threats, including cyber security threats, and related disruptions. as a defense contractor, we rely on our information technology infrastructure to process, transmit and store electronic information, including classified and other sensitive information of the u.s. government. while we maintain stringent information security policies and protocols, we face cyber security and other security threats to our information technology infrastructure, including threats to our and the u.s. government's proprietary and classified information. we could face unauthorized and unlawful attempts to gain access to our information technology infrastructure, including coordinated attacks from groups of hackers. we could also face attempts to gain physical access to classified and other sensitive information located at our facilities. our information 21 table of contents technology infrastructure is critical to the efficient operation of our business and essential to our ability to perform day-to-day operations. breaches of our information technology infrastructure or physical facilities or other disruptions could expose us to reputational damage, potential liability or the loss of current or future contracts, including work on sensitive or classified systems for the u.s. government, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. our nuclear operations subject us to various environmental, regulatory, financial and other risks. the design, construction, refueling and overhaul, repair, and inactivation of nuclear-powered aircraft carriers and nuclear-powered submarines, our nuclear facilities used to support such activities and our other nuclear operations at various doe sites and commercial nuclear power plants subject us to various risks, including: potential liabilities relating to harmful effects on the environment and human health resulting from nuclear operations and the storage, handling and disposal of radioactive materials, including nuclear assemblies and their components; unplanned expenditures relating to maintenance, operation, security and repair, including repairs required by the u.s. navy, the nuclear regulatory commission or the doe; reputational harm; potential liabilities arising out of a nuclear incident whether or not it is within our control; and regulatory noncompliance and loss of authorizations or indemnifications necessary for our operations. failure to properly handle nuclear materials could pose a health risk to humans or wildlife and could cause personal injury and property damage, including environmental contamination. if an accident were to occur, its severity could be significantly affected by the volume of the materials and the speed of corrective action taken by us and emergency response personnel, as well as other factors beyond our control, such as weather and wind conditions. actions taken in response to an accident could result in significant costs. our nuclear operations are subject to various safety related requirements imposed by the u.s. navy, doe and nuclear regulatory commission. in the event of noncompliance, these agencies may increase regulatory oversight, impose fines or shut down our operations, depending on their assessment of the severity of the situation. in addition, new or revised security and safety requirements imposed by the u.s. navy, doe and nuclear regulatory commission could necessitate substantial capital and other expenditures. subject to certain requirements and limitations, our contracts with the u.s. navy and doe generally provide for indemnity by the u.s. government for costs arising out of or resulting from our nuclear operations. we may not, however, be indemnified for all liabilities that we may incur in connection with our nuclear operations. for our commercial nuclear operations, we rely primarily on insurance carried by nuclear facility operators for risk mitigation, and we maintain limited insurance coverage for losses in excess of the coverage of facility operators. such insurance, however, may not be sufficient to cover our costs in the event of an accident or business interruption relating to our commercial nuclear operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. changes in future business conditions could cause business investments, recorded goodwill and/or purchased intangible assets to become impaired, resulting in substantial losses and write-downs that would reduce our operating income. as part of our business strategy, we may, from time to time, acquire a non-controlling or controlling interest in a business. these investments are made following careful analysis and due diligence processes designed to achieve a desired return or strategic objective. business acquisitions generally involve estimates, assumptions and judgments in determining acquisition prices, which prices must be allocated among acquired assets, including goodwill, based upon fair market values. notwithstanding our analyses, due diligence processes and business integration efforts, actual operating results of acquired businesses may vary significantly from initial estimates. as of december 31, 2012 , goodwill and purchased intangible assets generated from prior business acquisitions accounted for approximately 14% and 9% , respectively, of our recorded total assets. we evaluate goodwill values for impairment annually on november 30, or when evidence of potential impairment exists. we evaluate purchased intangibles when evidence of potential impairment exists. the impairment test is based on several factors requiring 22 table of contents judgment. as a general matter, a significant decrease in expected cash flows or changes in market conditions may indicate potential impairment of recorded goodwill or purchased intangibles. adverse equity market conditions that result in a decline in market multiples and our common stock price could also result in an impairment of goodwill and/or other intangible assets. in light of the adverse equity market conditions that began in the second quarter of 2011 and the resultant decline in industry market multiples and our market capitalization, we performed an interim goodwill impairment analysis as of september 30, 2011. as a result, we recorded a preliminary goodwill impairment charge totaling $300 million in the third quarter of 2011, which was subsequently reduced to $290 million in the fourth quarter of 2011 after we completed our impairment analysis. future declines in equity market multiples or the trading price of our common stock, or other factors such as reductions in future contract awards or significant adverse changes in our operating margins at ingalls could lead to future impairments of goodwill. any such impairments that result in us recording additional goodwill impairment charges could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. unanticipated changes in our tax provisions or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability and cash flow. we are subject to income taxes in the united states. significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. in addition, timing differences in the recognition of contract income for financial statement purposes and for income tax purposes can cause uncertainty with respect to the timing of income tax payments, which can have a significant impact on cash flow in a particular period. changes in applicable income tax laws and regulations, or their interpretation, could result in higher or lower income tax rates or changes in the taxability of certain sales or the deductibility of certain expenses, thereby affecting our income tax expense and profitability. the final results of any tax audits or related litigation could be materially different from our related historical income tax provisions and accruals. additionally, changes in our tax rate as a result of changes in our overall profitability, changes in tax legislation, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in differences between financial reporting income and taxable income, the examination of previously filed tax returns by taxing authorities and continuing assessments of our tax exposures could impact our tax liabilities and affect our income tax expense, profitability and cash flow. as of december 31, 2012 , the estimated value of our uncertain tax positions was a potential liability of $21 million , which includes accrued interest and penalties. if our positions are sustained by the taxing authority in our favor, the reversal of the liability would reduce our income tax provision and cost of sales and service revenues. however, we cannot guarantee that such positions will be sustained in our favor. we conduct a portion of our operations through joint ventures and strategic alliances. we may have limited control over such arrangements and have returns that are not proportional to the risks and resources we contribute. we conduct some of our operations through joint ventures with business partners. in any joint venture arrangement, differences in views among the joint venture participants may result in delayed decisions or in failures to reach agreement on major issues. we and our joint venture partners may, in certain instances, fail to reach agreement on significant decisions on a timely basis, or at all. we also cannot control the actions of our joint venture partners, including any non-performance, default by or bankruptcy of our joint venture partners, and we typically share liability or have joint and/or several liability with our joint venture partners under these joint venture arrangements. any of these factors could potentially have a material adverse effect on our joint venture operations and the profitability of our joint ventures . operating through joint ventures in which we are the minority holder gives us limited control over many decisions made with respect to the related joint venture projects and internal controls relating to such projects. these joint ventures may not be subject to the same requirements regarding internal controls and internal control reporting that we follow. as a result, internal control issues may arise that could have a material adverse effect on the joint venture. when entering into joint ventures, in order to establish or preserve relationships with our joint venture partners, we may agree to assume risks and contribute resources that are proportionately greater than the returns we expect to receive. such agreements may reduce our income and returns on these investments compared to what we would have received if our assumed risks and contributed resources were proportionate to our returns. 23 table of contents we might in the future make strategic acquisitions and investments, and these activities involve risks and uncertainties. in pursuing our business strategies, we expect to review, evaluate and consider potential acquisitions and investments. in evaluating such transactions, we will have to make difficult judgments regarding the value of business opportunities, technologies and other assets, and the risks and costs of potential liabilities. in addition, acquisitions and investments involve other risks and uncertainties, including the difficulty of integrating newly-acquired businesses, challenges in achieving strategic objectives and other benefits anticipated from acquisitions or investments, the diversion of management attention and resources from our existing operations and other initiatives, the potential value impairment of acquired assets and the potential loss of key employees of acquired businesses. if we fail to manage acquisitions, investments and other strategic transactions successfully, our financial results, business and future prospects could be harmed. we are subject to various claims and litigation that could ultimately be resolved against us, requiring material future cash payments and/or future material charges against our operating income, materially impairing our financial position. the size, type and complexity of our business make it highly susceptible to claims and litigation. we are currently, and may in the future become, subject to various claims and litigation, including environmental claims, which, if not resolved within accrued reserves, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. any claims and litigation, even if fully indemnified or insured, could negatively impact our reputation among our customers and the public, and make it more difficult for us to compete effectively or obtain adequate insurance in the future. the following paragraphs describe pending claims and litigation that, if determined adversely for amounts that exceed accrued reserves, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows: in the second quarter of 2007, the u.s. coast guard issued a revocation of acceptance under the deepwater modernization program for eight converted 123-foot patrol boats (the "vessels") based on alleged "hull buckling and shaft alignment problems" and alleged "nonconforming topside equipment" on the vessels. we submitted a written response that argued that the revocation of acceptance was improper. the u.s. coast guard advised icgs, which was formed by us and lockheed martin to perform the deepwater modernization program, that it was seeking $96 million from icgs as a result of the revocation of acceptance. the majority of the costs associated with the conversion effort are associated with the alleged structural deficiencies of the vessels, which were converted under contracts with us and one of our subcontractors. in 2008, the u.s. coast guard advised icgs that the u.s. coast guard would support an investigation by the u.s. department of justice of icgs and its subcontractors, instead of pursuing its $96 million claim independently. the department of justice conducted an investigation of icgs under a sealed false claims act complaint filed in the u.s. district court for the northern district of texas and decided in early 2009 not to intervene at that time. in february 2009, the district court unsealed the complaint filed by michael j. dekort, a former lockheed martin employee, against us, icgs, and lockheed martin relating to the vessel conversion effort. damages under the false claims act may be trebled upon a finding of liability. following the resolution of certain claims between the relator and a co-defendant, the district court entered a final judgment in march 2011 dismissing the relator's remaining claims. the relator appealed the dismissal of the remaining claims to the u.s. court of appeals for the fifth circuit, and, in july 2012, the fifth circuit issued a per curiam decision affirming the judgment of the district court dismissing the relator ' remaining claims. while we do not believe that remaining issues relating to conversion of the vessels will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows, we cannot predict what new or revised claims or litigation might be asserted or what information might come to light and can, therefore, give no assurances regarding the ultimate outcome. we and our predecessors-in-interest are defendants in several hundred cases filed in numerous jurisdictions around the country wherein former and current employees and various third parties allege exposure to asbestos-containing materials on, or associated with, our premises or while working on vessels constructed or repaired by us. the cases allege various injuries, including those associated with pleural plaque disease, asbestosis, cancer, mesothelioma and other alleged asbestos-related conditions. in some cases, several of our former executive officers are also named as defendants. although we believe the ultimate resolution of these cases will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows, we cannot predict what new or revised claims or litigation might be asserted or what information might come to light and can, therefore, give no assurances regarding the ultimate outcome of asbestos-related litigation. 24 table of contents in january 2011, the u.s. department of justice first informed us, through northrop grumman, of a false claims act complaint (the "complaint") that was filed under seal in the u.s. district court for the district of columbia. the redacted copy of the complaint we received alleges that, through largely unspecified fraudulent means, we and northrop grumman obtained federal funds that were restricted by law for the consequences of hurricane katrina, and used those funds to cover costs under certain shipbuilding contracts that were unrelated to hurricane katrina and for which northrop grumman and we were not entitled to recovery under the contracts. the complaint seeks monetary damages of at least $835 million , plus penalties, attorneys' fees and other costs of suit. damages under the false claims act may be trebled upon a finding of liability. on july 31, 2012, the district court entered an order permitting us to disclose certain information not included in the redacted copy of the complaint we received, including the date the complaint was filed, the decision of the u.s. department of justice to decline intervention in the case and the principal parties involved in the case. the complaint was filed on june 2, 2010, by relators gerald m. fisher and donald c. holmes. on december 8, 2011, the department of justice filed a notice of election to decline intervention in the case. as of august 29, 2012, gerald m. fisher was no longer a relator in or party to this case. based upon a review to date of the information available to us, we believe that we have substantive defenses to the allegations in the complaint, that the claims as set forth in the complaint evidence a fundamental lack of understanding of the terms and conditions in our shipbuilding contracts, including the post-katrina modifications to those contracts, and the manner in which the parties performed in connection with the contracts, and that the claims as set forth in the complaint lack merit. we intend to defend this matter vigorously. while we believe that the claims as set forth in the complaint will not result in a material effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows, we cannot predict what new or revised claims might be asserted or what information might come to light and can, therefore, give no assurances regarding the ultimate outcome. we may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, which could affect our ability to compete. we own or have the right to use certain patents, trademarks, copyrights and other forms of intellectual property. the u.s. government has rights to use certain intellectual property we develop in performance of government contracts, and it may use or authorize others to use such intellectual property. our intellectual property is subject to challenge, invalidation, misappropriation or circumvention by third parties. we also rely upon proprietary technology, information, processes and know-how that are not protected by patents. we seek to protect this information through trade secret or confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, subcontractors and other parties, as well as through other security measures. these agreements may not, however, provide meaningful protection for our unpatented proprietary information. in the event our intellectual property rights are infringed, we may not have adequate legal remedies to maintain our rights in our intellectual property. litigation to determine the scope of our rights, even if successful, could be costly and a diversion of management's attention away from other aspects of our business. in addition, trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. in instances where third parties have licensed to us the right to use their proprietary intellectual property, we may be unable in the future to secure the necessary licenses to use such intellectual property on commercially reasonable terms. our debt exposes us to certain risks. as of december 31, 2012 , we had $1,830 million of debt and $650 million of additional borrowing and letter of credit capacity under our credit facility ("credit facility"). our current level of debt could have important consequences, including: increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic or industry conditions; requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, strategic initiatives and general corporate purposes; 25 table of contents increasing our vulnerability to, and limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or the industry in which we operate; exposing us to the risk of higher interest rates, to the extent borrowings under our credit facility are subject to variable rates of interest; placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and limiting our ability to borrow additional funds. because we use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service our debt, we could fail to generate sufficient cash to fund our liquidity needs or fail to satisfy the restrictive covenants and borrowing limitations to which we are subject under our debt. moreover, despite our current level of debt, we may be able to incur significant additional debt in the future. to the extent new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we face could be increased. restrictive covenants in the indenture governing our senior notes and our credit facility may restrict our ability to pursue our business strategies. the indenture governing our senior notes and the terms of our credit facility limit our ability, among other things, to: incur additional debt; pay dividends or make other distributions on, or repurchase or redeem, our stock; prepay, redeem or repurchase certain of our debt; make investments; sell assets; enter into agreements restricting our subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends; consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; enter into transactions with our affiliates; and incur liens. in addition, the indenture governing our senior notes and the terms of our credit facility limits the amount of our capital expenditures and requires us to maintain certain financial ratios, including a minimum interest coverage ratio and a maximum leverage ratio, among others. these covenants may restrict our financial flexibility, limit our strategic initiatives, restrict our ability to grow or limit our ability to respond to competitive changes. these covenants limit the manner in which we can conduct our business, and we may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or capital needs. these covenants may, therefore, limit our ability to successfully execute our business strategy and operate our business. risks related to the spin-off we may be responsible for u.s. federal income tax liabilities that relate to our spin-off from northrop grumman. our spin-off from northrop grumman was structured to minimize the likelihood that northrop grumman, northrop grumman's stockholders and we would be required to recognize any taxable income, gain or loss for u.s. federal income tax purposes as a result of the spin-off, except with respect to cash received by northrop grumman's stockholders in lieu of fractional shares. if all or a portion of the spin-off does not qualify as a tax-free transaction, northrop grumman would recognize a substantial gain for u.s. federal income tax purposes. in such case, under irs regulations, each member of northrop grumman's consolidated group at the time of the spin-off, including us and our subsidiaries, would be severally liable for the resulting u.s. federal income tax liability. even if the spin-off otherwise qualifies as a tax-free transaction for u.s. federal income tax purposes, the distribution will be taxable to northrop grumman pursuant to section 355(e) of the internal revenue code if there are one or more acquisitions, including issuances, of the stock of either northrop grumman or us representing 50% 26 table of contents or more, measured by vote or value, of the then-outstanding stock of either corporation and the acquisition or acquisitions are deemed to be part of a plan or series of related transactions that include the distribution. any acquisition of our common stock within two years before or after the distribution, with exceptions, including public trading by less-than-5% stockholders and certain compensatory stock issuances, generally will be presumed to be part of such a plan unless we can rebut that presumption. the tax liability resulting from the application of section 355(e) would be substantial, and, under irs regulations, each member of the northrop grumman consolidated group at the time of the spin-off, including us and our subsidiaries, would be severally liable for the resulting u.s. federal income tax liability. we agreed with northrop grumman, as part of the spin-off, not to enter into any transaction that could reasonably be expected to cause any portion of the spin-off to be taxable to northrop grumman, including under section 355(e). we also agreed to indemnify northrop grumman for any tax liabilities resulting from any such transactions. the amount of any such indemnification could be substantial. in addition, these obligations may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company. our spin-off from northrop grumman may expose us to potential liabilities arising out of state and federal fraudulent conveyance laws. a court could determine that northrop grumman did not receive fair consideration or reasonably equivalent value for distributing our common stock or taking other actions as part of the spin-off, or that we did not receive fair consideration or reasonably equivalent value for incurring indebtedness, including the debt incurred by us in connection with the spin-off, transferring assets or taking other actions as part of the spin-off and, at the time of such actions, we or northrop grumman (i) were insolvent or would be rendered insolvent, (ii) had reasonably small capital with which to carry on our respective businesses and all businesses in which we intended to engage or (iii) intended to incur, or believed we would incur, debts beyond our ability to repay such debts as they would mature. in such event, the court could void the spin-off as a constructive fraudulent transfer. if such court made this determination, the court could impose a number of different remedies, including voiding our liens and claims against northrop grumman or providing northrop grumman with a claim for money damages against us in an amount equal to the difference between the consideration received by northrop grumman and the fair market value of our company at the time of the spin-off. in connection with the spin-off, northrop grumman and we agreed that each of us would be responsible for the debts, liabilities and other obligations related to the respective business or businesses that we own and operate following the spin-off. although we do not expect to be liable for any such obligations not expressly assumed by us, it is possible that a court would disregard the agreed allocation and require that we assume responsibility for obligations allocated to northrop grumman, such as certain tax and/or environmental liabilities, particularly if northrop grumman were to refuse or be unable to pay or perform its allocated obligations. risks related to our common stock our indebtedness could limit our future ability to pay dividends on our common stock. our dividend policy is established by our board of directors based upon our financial condition, results of operations and capital requirements, as well as applicable law, regulatory constraints, industry practice and other business considerations that our board of directors considers relevant. the terms of the agreements governing our existing debt or debt that we may incur in the future may limit or prohibit payments of dividends. in addition, the amount of our existing and any additional future debt may limit our ability to pay dividends. if we cannot generate sufficient cash flow from operations to meet our debt payment obligations, then our ability to pay dividends, even if declared by our board of directors, may be impaired. there can be no assurance that we will continue to pay a dividend on our common stock. anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and delaware law, as well as regulatory requirements, could delay or prevent a change in control. certain provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws may delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a stockholder may consider favorable. for example, our restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws provide for a classified board of directors, require advance notice for stockholder proposals and director nominations, place limitations on convening stockholder meetings and authorize our board of directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock. these provisions may discourage acquisition proposals, cause delays 27 table of contents or prevent a change in control, which could harm our stock price. delaware law also imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock and us. we agreed with northrop grumman, in connection with our spin-off, not to enter into any transaction involving an acquisition, including issuance, of our common stock or any other transaction, or, to the extent we have the right to prohibit it, to permit any such transaction that could reasonably be expected to cause the spin-off to be taxable to northrop grumman. we also agreed to indemnify northrop grumman for any tax liabilities resulting from any such transactions. generally, northrop grumman will recognize taxable gain on the spin-off if there are one or more acquisitions, including issuances, of our capital stock, directly or indirectly, representing 50% or more, measured by vote or value, of our then outstanding capital stock, and the acquisitions or issuances are deemed to be part of a plan or series of related transactions that include the spin-off. any such shares of our common stock acquired, directly or indirectly, within two years before or after the spin-off, with exceptions, including public trading by less-than-5% stockholders and certain compensatory stock issuances, will generally be presumed to be part of such a plan, unless we can rebut that presumption. the amount of any indemnification payment we may be required to pay to northrop grumman resulting from any such transactions could be substantial. our nuclear shipbuilding operations are considered vitally important to the u.s. navy. consequently, the u.s. navy has required us to include in our contracts with the navy express terms regarding notice and approval rights in the event of change of control of our nuclear shipbuilding operations and regarding the navy's obligations to indemnify us for losses relating to our nuclear work for the navy. such terms require us to provide the u.s. navy with notice of any potential change of control of our nuclear shipbuilding operations and obtain the navy's consent for transferring certain related licenses to facilitate the navy ' ability to ensure that a potential buyer would continue to conduct our operations in a satisfactory manner. we have included such terms in solicitations for future u.s. navy nuclear work , and we expect them to be included in future contracts with the navy for nuclear work . provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and our restated bylaws, our obligations to northrop grumman relating to the spin-off and our existing contracts with the u.s. navy may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change of control of our company that may be beneficial to our stockholders. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 63 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk, primarily related to interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. interest rates - our financial instruments subject to interest rate risk include floating rate borrowings under our credit facility. at december 31, 2012 , we had $525 million in floating rate debt outstanding under our credit facility's term loan. our $650 million revolver remained undrawn as of december 31, 2012 . based on the amounts outstanding under our credit facility as of december 31, 2012 , an increase of 1% in interest rates would increase the interest expense on our debt by approximately $5 million on an annual basis. foreign currency - we currently have, and in the future may enter into, foreign currency forward contracts to manage foreign currency exchange rate risk related to payments to suppliers denominated in foreign currencies. as of december 31, 2012 , our outstanding foreign currency forward contracts were not significant. 63 table of contentsrisk factors 11 we conduct substantially all of our business with the u.s. government, principally the department of defense ("dod"). as prime contractor, principal subcontractor, team member or partner, we participate in many high-priority u.s. defense technology programs. we believe our product capabilities, heavy industrial facilities, and a workforce of approximately 38,000 employees position us well to continue to support the long-term objectives of the u.s. navy and u.s. coast guard to adapt and respond to a complex, uncertain and rapidly changing national security environment. we became an independent, publicly-owned company on march 31, 2011, when we were spun off from northrop grumman. we have owned and operated the legacy northrop grumman shipbuilding business since the spin-off. ingalls through our ingalls operations, we design and construct non-nuclear ships for the u.s. navy and u.s. coast guard, including amphibious assault ships, surface combatants and national security cutters ("nscs"). we are the supplier of amphibious assault ships to the u.s. navy and built 28 of the 62 ddg-51 arleigh burke -class of aegis guided missile destroyers in active service. we are also the sole builder of the large multi-mission national security cutters for the u.s. coast guard. our ingalls shipbuilding sites are located in pascagoula, mississippi, gulfport, mississippi, and avondale, louisiana. these facilities offer a collection of manufacturing capabilities that include a 660-ton gantry crane and a land based test facility. 1 table of contents we are winding down military shipbuilding at avondale and consolidating that activity at our pascagoula, mississippi, facility, which we believe will decrease our fixed overhead expenses, provide improved facility utilization and a more cost-efficient construction process, centralize our shipbuilding learning and increase the benefits of serial production, and reduce program costs, thereby enhancing our competitive position. in september 2013, we announced the closing of our gulfport composite center of excellence (the "gulfport facility") in gulfport, mississippi, due to limited demand from the u.s. navy for composite products provided by our gulfport facility. we expect to complete outstanding work and close the gulfport facility by the end of the second quarter of 2014. amphibious assault ships we are the supplier to the u.s. navy of amphibious assault and expeditionary warfare ships, which include the u.s. navy large deck amphibious ships ("lha"), amphibious transport dock ships ("lpd") and multi-purpose amphibious assault ships ("lhd"). the lha is a key component of the u.s. navy-marine corps requirement for 11 expeditionary strike groups/amphibious readiness groups, and design, construction and modernization of lhas are core to our ingalls operations. construction of lhd-1 wasp -class multipurpose amphibious assault ships concluded with our delivery of lhd-8 uss makin island in 2009. in 2007, we were awarded the construction contract for lha-6 america , the first in a new class of enhanced amphibious assault ships designed from the keel up to be an aviation optimized marine assault platform. we expect to deliver lha-6 america in the second quarter of 2014 and are currently constructing lha-7 tripoli , scheduled for delivery in 2018. the lpd program is a long-running production program where we have an opportunity to take advantage of cost reductions resulting from ship-over-ship learning. we are currently constructing two lpd-17 san antonio -class amphibious transport dock ships, lpd-26 john p. murtha scheduled for delivery in 2016 and lpd-27 portland scheduled for delivery in 2017, in our pascagoula shipyard. we delivered lpd-25 somerset in 2013, lpd-23 anchorage and lpd-24 arlington in 2012, and lpd-22 uss san diego in 2011. surface combatants we are a design agent for and one of only two companies that constructs the ddg-51 arleigh burke -class guided missile destroyers. we have delivered 28 ddg-51 arleigh burke -class destroyers to the u.s. navy, including ddg-110 uss william p. lawrence in february 2011. we are currently constructing ddg-113 john finn and ddg-114 ralph johnson , scheduled for delivery in 2016 and 2017, respectively. in 2013, we were awarded a multi-year contract totaling $3.3 billion for construction of five additional ddg-51 arleigh burke -class destroyers as a part of a larger u.s. navy order for nine ddg-51 arleigh burk e-class destroyers. in 2008, the u.s. navy truncated the ddg-1000 zumwalt -class program when it restarted the ddg-51 arleigh burke -class destroyer production line. our participation in the ddg-1000 zumwalt -class destroyers program has included detailed design and construction of the ships' integrated composite deckhouses and hangars, as well as portions of the ships' aft peripheral vertical launch systems. we expect to complete our participation in this program with the delivery of the composite deckhouse of ddg-1001 michael monsoor in 2014 . the u.s. navy has decided to acquire a steel deckhouse structure for the third and final ship of the class. national security cutter the u.s. coast guard's recapitalization program is designed to replace aging and operationally expensive ships and aircraft used to conduct missions in excess of 50 miles from the shoreline. the flagship of this program is the legend -class nsc, a multi-mission platform we designed and built. the u.s. coast guard ordered the first three nsc vessels from integrated coast guard systems ("icgs"), a joint venture between lockheed martin and us, pursuant to an indefinite delivery/indefinite quantity ("idiq") contract for the deepwater modernization program. the first national security cutter, nsc-1 uscgc bertholf , was delivered to the u.s. coast guard in 2008, followed by nsc-2 uscgc waesche in 2009 and nsc-3 uscgc stratton in 2011. beginning in 2010 with the construction contract for nsc-4 hamilton , the nsc contracts have been awarded directly to ingalls. nsc-4 hamilton and nsc-5 james are currently under construction. ingalls was awarded a construction contract for nsc-6 munro in 2013. 2 table of contents fleet support: amsec and continental maritime of san diego ("cmsd") fleet support provides comprehensive life cycle services, including depot maintenance, modernization, repairs, logistics and technical support and planning yard services for naval and commercial vessels through our amsec and cmsd subsidiaries. we have ship repair facilities in newport news, virginia, and san diego, california, which are near the u.s. navy's largest homeports of norfolk, virginia, and san diego, respectively. amsec provides naval architecture and marine engineering, ship system assessments, maintenance engineering and logistics services to the u.s. navy and commercial maritime industry from 27 locations across the globe. on any given day, over 600 of our amsec employees are on board u.s. navy ships, assessing equipment conditions, modernizing systems and training sailors. through cmsd, a master ship repair contractor, we provide ship repair, regular overhaul and selected restricted availability services (pier side or in customers' dry docks) for the u.s. navy. we also perform emergent repair for the u.s. navy on all classes of ships. beginning in 2014, fleet support, including amsec and cmsd, was reorganized as part of our newport news operating segment. newport news the capabilities of our newport news operations extend from our core business of designing and constructing nuclear-powered ships, such as aircraft carriers and submarines, and the refueling and overhaul and the inactivation of such ships, to our secondary businesses that are focused on the construction of heavy manufacturing equipment for commercial nuclear power facilities and the operation, management and cleanup of environmental hazard sites through department of energy ("doe") programs. our newport news shipyard is one of the largest shipyards in the united states, located on approximately 550 acres near the mouth of the james river, which adjoins the chesapeake bay. the shipyard has two miles of waterfront property and heavy industrial facilities that include seven graving docks, a floating dry dock, two outfitting berths, five outfitting piers, module outfitting facilities and various other workshops. our newport news shipyard also has a 2,170-foot dry dock and a 1,050-ton gantry crane capable of servicing two aircraft carriers at one time. design, construction and refueling and complex overhaul of aircraft carriers engineering, design and construction of u.s. navy nuclear aircraft carriers are core to our operations. aircraft carriers are the largest ships in the u.s. navy's fleet, with a displacement of over 90,000 tons. newport news has delivered 30 aircraft carriers to the u.s. navy since 1933, including all ten ships currently in active service. we delivered the u.s. navy's newest carrier and the last of the cvn-68 nimitz -class, cvn-77 uss george h.w. bush , in 2009. we have been engaged in design work on the next generation aircraft carrier, the cvn-78 gerald r. ford- class, for over ten years. in 2008, we were awarded a $5.1 billion contract for detail design and construction of the first ship of the class, cvn-78 gerald r. ford , which is scheduled for delivery in 2016. we also received awards in 2009 through 2013 totaling $2.0 billion under a construction preparation contract for the second cvn-78 gerald r. ford -class aircraft carrier, cvn-79 john f. kennedy . this contract includes design, planning, procurement of long-lead-time materials and limited fabrication, as well as continued research and development with key suppliers. we continue to be the exclusive prime contractor for nuclear aircraft carrier refueling and complex overhaul ("rcoh"). each rcoh takes over three years to complete, and the work accounts for approximately 35% of all maintenance and modernization during an aircraft carrier's 50 year service life. rcoh services include propulsion work (refueling of reactors; propulsion plant modernization; and propulsion plant repairs), restoration of service life (dry docking, tank and void maintenance; hull, shafting, propellers and rudders; launch and recovery system; piping repairs; and component refurbishment), and modernization (electrical systems; aviation support systems; warfare; interoperability; and environmental compliance). we provide ongoing maintenance services for the u.s. navy aircraft carrier fleet through both rcoh and on-site fleet repair work. we completed the rcoh for cvn-71 uss theodore roosevelt and redelivered it to the u.s. navy in 2013. we have also received awards totaling $2.6 billion under an execution contract for the rcoh of cvn-72 uss abraham lincoln . we believe our position as the exclusive designer and builder of nuclear-powered aircraft carriers, as well as the fact that rcoh work requires a highly trained workforce, is capital-intensive and has high barriers to entry due to its nuclear component, strongly positions us for the award of future rcoh contracts on the current and future u.s. navy aircraft carrier fleet. 3 table of contents aircraft carrier inactivation the u.s. navy awarded us a $745 million contract in 2013 to inactivate cvn-65 uss enterprise , the world's first nuclear-powered aircraft carrier, which was built by us and commissioned in 1961, with a scheduled redelivery date in 2016. aircraft carriers have a lifespan of approximately 50 years, and we believe the ten carriers delivered by us that are currently in active service, as well as those we will deliver in the future, present a significant opportunity for us with respect to their inactivation. we believe that the u.s. navy will require inactivation of aircraft carriers in the naval fleet as they reach the end of their lifespans, and we intend to be positioned as the best choice to be awarded that work. design and construction of nuclear-powered submarines we are one of only two companies in the united states capable of designing and building nuclear-powered submarines for the u.s. navy. newport news has delivered 58 submarines to the u.s. navy since 1960, comprised of 44 fast attack and 14 ballistic missile submarines. of the 54 nuclear-powered fast attack submarines currently in active service, 26 were delivered by newport news. our nuclear submarine program, located at our newport news shipyard, includes construction, engineering, design, research and integrated planning. in february 1997, we executed a teaming agreement with electric boat, a division of general dynamics corporation ("general dynamics"), to build ssn-774 virginia -class fast attack nuclear submarines cooperatively. under the present arrangement, we build the stern, habitability and machinery spaces, torpedo room, sail and bow, while electric boat builds the engine room, control room and pressure hull structure. work on the reactor plant and the final assembly, test, outfit and delivery of the submarines alternate between electric boat and us. the four submarines of the first block and the six submarines of the second block of ssn-774 virginia -class submarines have been delivered. in december 2008, the team was awarded a construction contract for the third block of eight ssn-774 virginia -class submarines. the multi-year contract increased construction from one submarine per year to two submarines per year from 2011 through 2013. the eighth submarine to be procured under this contract is scheduled for delivery in 2019. ssbn(x) ohio-class replacement program the u.s. navy's shipbuilding plan for fiscal year 2013 states the u.s. navy's intention to focus on the design and construction of replacement boats for the current aging ohio -class nuclear ballistic and cruise missile submarines. the u.s. navy has committed to designing a replacement class for the ssbn ohio -class nuclear ballistic missile submarines ("ssbn"), which were first introduced into service in 1981. we are currently participating in the design effort, and our experience and specialized workforce position us for a potential role in the construction effort, but no decisions have been made regarding that aspect of the program. the ssbn ohio- class includes 14 nuclear ballistic missile submarines and four nuclear cruise missile submarines ("ssgn"). the ohio replacement program currently anticipates 12 new ballistic missile submarines over a 15-year period at a cost of approximately $4 billion to $7 billion each. the u.s. navy has initiated the design process for the new class of submarine, and we have begun design work as a subcontractor to electric boat. congress has delayed the start of the first ohio replacement submarine by two years and construction is now expected to begin in 2021, with procurement of long-lead-time materials in 2017 and delivery in 2030. the first ohio -class ballistic missile submarine is expected to be retired in 2027 with an additional submarine being retired each year thereafter. by 2030 the ohio -class ballistic missile submarine fleet is expected to be down to ten. the current fiscal environment and uncertainty in defense budgets may cause additional delay to the start of construction or result in a reduction in the number of ships being procured, but we believe the ohio replacement program may represent a significant opportunity for us in the future. energy our doe and commercial nuclear programs leverage our core competencies in nuclear operations, program management and heavy manufacturing. we selectively partner with experienced industry leaders, and we are a participant in one active joint venture. we are also able, through our subsidiary newport news industrial corporation ("nni"), to provide a range of services to the energy industry, as well as government customers. 4 table of contents savannah river nuclear solutions, llc ("srns") in january 2008, srns, our joint venture with fluor federal services, inc. and honeywell international inc., was awarded a five-year $4 billion contract for site management and operations at the doe's savannah river site located 12 miles south of aiken, south carolina. work at the site includes management of a national laboratory and the cleanup of nuclear waste, both newly generated and backlogged, and legacy wastes that exist at various facilities throughout the savannah river site. as part of the american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009, srns was awarded a $1.4 billion contract to deactivate and remediate several reactors and sites at the savannah river site. in september 2012, the doe exercised its option to extend the original contract for another three years, bringing the total contract value to approximately $8 billion. we have a 34% ownership stake in srns. newport news industrial corporation nni provides a range of support services to operating commercial nuclear power plants. since it was founded in 1965, nni has expanded its capabilities, continuing to provide support for nuclear energy facilities, as well as for fossil power plants and other industrial facilities. nni focuses on fabrication services, construction services, equipment services, technical services and product sales to its customers, which include both private industry and government entities such as the doe and the dod. corporate huntington ingalls industries, inc. was incorporated in delaware on august 4, 2010. our principal executive offices are located at 4101 washington avenue, newport news, virginia 23607. our telephone number is (757) 380-2000, and our home page on the internet is www.huntingtoningalls.com. references to our website in this report are provided as a convenience and do not constitute, and should not be viewed as, incorporation by reference of the information contained on, or available through, the website. accordingly, such information should not be considered part of this report. summary segment financial data for a more complete understanding of our segment financial information, see segment operating results in item 7 and note 8: segment information in item 8. customers revenues from the u.s. government accounted for substantially all of our revenues in 2013 , 2012 and 2011 . in 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , app roximately 94%, 96% and 97%, respectively, of our revenues were generated from the u.s. navy and approximately 6%, 4% and 3%, re spectively, were generated from the u.s. coast guard. intellectual property with approximately 5,000 engineers and designers, we develop and incorporate into our vessels new technologies, manufacturing processes and systems-integration practices. in addition to owning a large portfolio of proprietary intellectual property, we license intellectual property rights to and from others. the u.s. government holds licenses to our patents developed in the performance of u.s. government contracts and unlimited license rights in technical data developed under our u.s. government contracts when such data is developed entirely at government expense. the u.s. government may use or authorize others to use the technology covered by our patents licensed to the government. while our intellectual property rights are important to our operations, we do not believe that any existing patent, license or other intellectual property right is of such importance that its loss or termination would have a material impact on our business. seasonality no material portion of our business is seasonal. the timing of our revenue recognition is based on several factors, including the timing of contract awards, the incurrence of contract costs, contract cost estimation, and unit deliveries. see critical accounting policies, estimates, and judgments - revenue recognition in item 7. 5 table of contents backlog as of december 31, 2013 and 2012 , our total backlog was approximately $18 billion and $16 billion , respectively. approximately 32% of backlog at december 31, 2013 , is expected to be converted into sales in 2014 . total backlog includes both funded backlog (firm orders for which funding is contractually obligated by the customer) and unfunded backlog (firm orders for which funding is not currently contractually obligated by the customer). unfunded backlog excludes unexercised contract options and unfunded idiq orders. for contracts having no stated contract values, backlog includes only the amounts committed by the customer. backlog is converted into sales as work is performed or deliveries are made. for backlog by segment, see backlog in item 7. raw materials the most significant material we use is steel. other materials used in large quantities include paint, aluminum, pipe, electrical cable and fittings. all of these materials are currently available in adequate supply. in connection with our government contracts, we are required to procure certain materials and component parts from supply sources approved by the u.s. government. generally, for long-term contracts, we obtain price quotations for many of our materials requirements from multiple suppliers to ensure competitive pricing. we have not generally been dependent upon any one supply source; however, due largely to the consolidation of the defense industry, we currently have only one supplier for certain component parts. we believe that these single source suppliers, as well as our overall supplier base, are adequate to meet our future needs. we have mitigated some supply risk by negotiating long-term agreements with certain raw material suppliers. in addition, we have mitigated price risk related to raw material purchases through certain contractual arrangements with customers. research and development to foster innovative product development and evolution, we conduct research and development activities as part of our normal business operations. our research and development activities primarily include independent research and development ("ir&amp;d") efforts related to government programs. we recover a significant portion of our ir&amp;d expenditures through overhead charges to u.s. government contracts, consistent with u.s. government regulations. we include ir&amp;d expenses in general and administrative expenses. company-sponsored ir&amp;d expenses totaled $22 million , $21 million and $24 million for the years ended december 31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , respectively. at our virginia advanced shipbuilding and carrier integration center ("vascic"), located in newport news, virginia, we conduct on-site warfare systems testing, training and laboratory research for the next generation of aircraft carriers, submarines and other ships. vascic serves as the focal point for the integration of ship systems and the application of new technologies. it has a classified facility and an integration area that facilitates research and development related to setup and testing of electronics as well as hull, mechanical and electrical systems prior to introducing new equipment on board a ship. it also has modeling and simulation capability allowing for visualization using 3-d displays. we believe vascic benefits the u.s. navy and represents a competitive advantage for us by developing future naval capabilities, reducing total ownership cost and facilitating technology transfer. governmental regulation and supervision our business is affected by a variety of laws and regulations relating to the award, administration and performance of u.s. government contracts. see risks related to our business in item 1a. we operate in a heavily regulated environment and are routinely audited and reviewed by the u.s. government and its agencies, such as the u.s. navy's supervisor of shipbuilding, the defense contract audit agency ("dcaa") and the defense contract management agency ("dcma"). these agencies review our contract performance, cost structures and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards, as well as the adequacy of, and our compliance with, our internal control systems and policies. systems subject to audit or review include our accounting systems, purchasing systems, billing systems, property management and control systems, cost estimating systems, earned value management systems, compensation systems and management information systems. any costs we incur that are determined to be unallowable or improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed by a government customer or must be refunded if already reimbursed. if an audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties as well as administrative sanctions, 6 table of contents which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension, and prohibition from doing business with the u.s. government. the u.s. government has the ability, pursuant to regulations relating to contractor business systems, to decrease or withhold contract payments if it determines significa nt deficiencies exist in one or more such systems. the u.s. government has, in certain instances, withheld payments on contracts subject to these regulations upon its assessment that deficiencies exist with one or more of our business systems. we are modifying our affected business systems to address the u.s. government's concerns. in addition, the u.s. government generally has the ability to terminate contracts, in whole or in part, with little to no prior notice, for convenience or for default based on performance. in the event of termination for the government's convenience, contractors are normally protected by provisions that provide for reimbursement of costs incurred on the contracts and profit on those costs but not for the anticipated profit that would have been earned had the contract been completed. termination resulting from our default could expose us to various liabilities, including excess reprocurement costs, and could have a material effect on our ability to compete for future contracts. in 2009, congress passed legislation to improve the organization and procedures of the dod for the acquisition of major weapons systems, including shipbuilding and maritime systems. this legislation, the weapon system acquisition reform act of 2009, requires the dod to develop mechanisms to address cost, schedule and performance in establishing program requirements. as acquisition reform progresses, we will continue to monitor the actions of the pentagon and congress to determine their impact on our operations and respond appropriately. government contractors must comply with a significant volume of procurement regulations and other requirements. contracting with the u.s. government may result in our filing of requests for equitable adjustments ("reas"), which represent requests for the u.s. government to make appropriate adjustments to terms of a contract, including pricing, delivery schedule, technical requirements or other affected terms, due to changes in the original contract requirements and resulting delays and disruption in contract performance for which the u.s. government is responsible. reas are prepared, submitted and negotiated in the ordinary course of business, and large reas are not uncommon at the conclusion of both new construction and rcoh activities. such reas are not considered claims under the contract disputes act of 1978, although they may be converted to such claims if good faith negotiations to resolve the reas are not satisfactory. in cases where there are multiple suppliers, contracts for the construction and conversion of u.s. navy ships and submarines are generally subject to competitive bidding. in evaluating proposed prices, the u.s. navy sometimes requires that each bidder submit information on pricing, estimated costs of completion and anticipated profit margins in order to assess cost realism. the u.s. navy uses this information and other data to determine an estimated cost for each bidder. under u.s. government regulations, certain costs, including certain financing costs and marketing expenses, are not allowable contract costs and, therefore, are not recoverable. the u.s. government also regulates the methods by which all costs, including overhead, are allocated to government contracts. our contracts with various agencies of the u.s. government and our subcontracts with other prime contractors are subject to additional procurement regulations that include, but are not limited to, the truth in negotiations act, the procurement integrity act, the false claims act, cost accounting standards, the international traffic in arms regulations promulgated under the arms export control act, the close the contractor fraud loophole act and the foreign corrupt practices act. a noncompliance determination by any one agency may result in fines, penalties, or debarment or suspension from contracting with all u.s. government agencies. competition we primarily compete with general dynamics and, to a lesser extent, smaller shipyards, one or more of which may team with a large defense contractor. intense competition related to programs, resources and funding, and long operating cycles are key characteristics of both our business and the shipbuilding defense industry in general. it is common industry practice to share work on major programs among a number of companies. a company competing to be a prime contractor may, upon ultimate award of the contract to another party, become a subcontractor for the prime contracting party. it is not uncommon to compete for a contract award with a peer company and, simultaneously, perform as a supplier to or a customer of such competitor on other contracts. the nature of major defense programs, conducted under binding contracts, allows companies that perform well to benefit from a level of program continuity not common in many industries. 7 table of contents we believe we are well-positioned in the market. because we are the only company currently capable of building, refueling and defueling the u.s. navy's nuclear-powered aircraft carriers, we believe we are in a strong competitive position to be awarded each contract to perform such activities. even so, the government periodically revisits whether refueling of nuclear-powered aircraft carriers should be performed in private or public facilities. in this regard, the national defense authorization act for fiscal year 2012 ("2012 act") required dod to develop a core depot level maintenance capability to refuel nuclear aircraft carriers. the national defense authorization act for fiscal year 2013 ("2013 act") modified the 2012 act by restoring an exception for the nuclear refueling of an aircraft carrier from the definition of core depot level maintenance. the 2013 act also amended and clarified the exception to cover the concurrent refueling and overhaul of an aircraft carrier, as well as the defueling of an aircraft carrier. similarly, the 2013 act restored an exclusion for nuclear aircraft carrier programs from the definition of core logistics capabilities that was found in previous law. we are currently the only builder of large deck amphibious assault and expeditionary warfare ships for the u.s. navy, including lhas and lpds, and are positioned to be awarded future contracts for these types of vessels. we are also the sole supplier of nscs for the u.s. coast guard, and are positioned to be awarded future contracts for these types of vessels. we are one of only two companies currently designing and building nuclear-powered submarines for the u.s. navy and one of only two companies that builds the u.s. navy's current fleet of ddg-51 arleigh burke -class destroyers. we are positioned to be awarded future contracts for these types of ships as well. our success in the shipbuilding defense industry depends upon our ability to develop, market and produce our products and services at a cost consistent with the u.s. navy's budget, as well as our ability to provide the workforce, technologies, facilities, equipment and financial capacity needed to deliver those products and services with maximum efficiency. environmental, health and safety our manufacturing operations are subject to and affected by federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. we accrue the estimated costs to complete environmental remediation when we determine it is probable we will incur expenses in the future, in amounts we can reasonably estimate, to address environmental conditions at currently or formerly owned or leased operating facilities, or at sites where we are named a potentially responsible party ("prp") by the u.s. environmental protection agency ("epa") or similarly designated by another environmental agency. the inherent difficulties in estimating future environmental remediation costs, resulting from uncertainties regarding the extent of required remediation, determination of legally responsible parties and the status of laws and regulations and their interpretations, can cause our estimated costs to change. we assess the potential impact on our financial statements of future environmental remediation costs by estimating, on a site-by-site basis, the range of reasonably possible remediation costs that we could incur, taking into account currently available information at each site, the current state of technology and our prior experience in remediating contaminated sites. we review our estimates periodically and adjust them to reflect changes in facts, technology and legal circumstances. we record accruals for environmental remediation costs on an undiscounted basis in the accounting period in which it becomes probable we have incurred a liability and the costs can be reasonably estimated. we record related insurance recoveries only when we determine that collection is probable, and we do not include any litigation costs related to environmental matters in our environmental remediation accrual. we expense or capitalize environmental expenditures as appropriate. capitalized expenditures relate to long-lived improvements in current operating facilities. we record environmental remediation accruals at sites involving multiple parties based upon our expected share of liability, taking into account the financial viability of other jointly liable parties. we may incur remediation costs exceeding our accrued amount if other prps do not pay their allocable share of remediation costs, which could have a material effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. as of december 31, 2013 , our probable future costs for environmental remediation were approximately $2 million , which is accrued in other current liabilities in the consolidated statement of financial position. although information gained as projects progress may materially affect our accrued liability, we do not anticipate that future remediation expenditures will have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 8 table of contents we may incur environmental costs in the future related to our wind down of military shipbuilding at avondale. these costs are not reasonably estimable at this time, however, due to insufficient information about the nature, timing and extent of any potential environmental remediation we may be required to perform or the related costs that we may incur. accordingly, potential environmental costs associated with the wind down of avondale are not included in our $2 million accrual for environmental remediation costs or our $256 million estimate of avondale asset write-downs and restructuring costs, or otherwise reflected in our consolidated financial statements. we expect that a significant portion of any future environmental remediation costs we incur at avondale would be recoverable, consistent with government accounting practices, under the federal acquisition regulation ("far"). we believe that we are in material compliance with all applicable environmental laws and regulations, and historical environmental compliance costs have not been material to our business. we could be affected by new environmental laws or regulations, including any enacted in response to climate change concerns and other actions known as "green initiatives." we have made the investments we believe are necessary to comply with environmental laws. we expect, however, to incur capital and operating costs in the future to comply with current and future environmental laws and regulations. at this time, however, we do not believe such costs will have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. with regard to occupational health and safety, the shipbuilding and ship repair industry involves work with hazardous materials and processes, and remains one of the most hazardous industry segments. according to the bureau of labor statistics, the shipbuilding and ship repair industry (naics 336611) ranks among the highest in several injury metrics. we have experienced three industrial related fatalities in the pa st seven years. we strive to keep our occupational safety &amp; health administration ("osha") compliance programs strong. in 1995, our newport news shipyard became the first shipyard to be awarded the star award from osha's voluntary protection program ("osha vpp"). to earn this award, we joined efforts with our unions and supported participation in the osha vpp, in which all parties assist each other to make our shipyard a safer place to work. since then, our gulfport, mississippi, and cmsd facilities have also been certified as osha vpp star sites. the u.s. navy, nuclear regulatory commission and doe regulate and control various matters relating to nuclear materials we handle. subject to certain requirements and limitations, our contracts with the u.s. navy and doe generally provide for indemnity by the u.s. government for losses resulting from our nuclear operations. for our commercial nuclear operations, we rely primarily on insurance carried by nuclear facility operators for risk mitigation, and we maintain limited insurance coverage for losses in excess of the coverage of facility operators. employees we have approximately 38,000 employees. we are the largest industrial employer in virginia and the largest private employer in mississippi. our workforce contains many third-, fourth- and fifth-generation shipbuilding employees. we employ individuals specializing in 19 crafts and trades, approximately 5,000 engineers and designers and approximately 2,400 employees with advanced degrees. employees who have been with us or our predecessor companies for over 40 years achieve the title of master shipbuilder. as of december 31, 2013 , we had approximately 1,100 master shipbuilders, approximately 850 at newport news and approximately 250 at ingalls. we employ more than 5,500 veterans. our newport news apprentice school trains approximately 800 apprentices each year in 19 crafts and trades and several advanced programs. our ingalls apprentice school currently has approximately 300 registered apprentices in its programs. apprentices are paid as full-time employees for the duration of their studies and usually continue to work with us upon graduation. from nuclear pipe welders to senior executives, approximately 2,900 alumni of the apprentice school at newport news and approximately 1,900 alumni of our ingalls apprentice school continue to work with us. approximately 50% of our approximately 38,000 employees are covered by a total of nine collective bargaining agreements. newport news has three collective bargaining agreements covering represented employees, which expire in april 2014, june 2014 and july 2017. ingalls has six collective bargaining agreements covering represented employees, five of which cover pascagoula and gulfport employees and one of which covers avondale employees. the five pascagoula/gulfport collective bargaining agreements expire in march 2015. the avondale collective bargaining agreement was indefinitely extended upon its last expiration. we believe that our relationship with our employees is satisfactory. 9 table of contents available information our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q and current reports on form 8-k, as well as any amendments to those reports, are available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we file them with the securities and exchange commission ("sec"). you can learn more about us by reviewing our sec filings on the investor relations page on our website at www.huntingtoningalls.com. our sec filings are also available at the public reference room of the sec at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. you may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling 1-800-sec-0330. the sec also maintains a website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy statements and other information about sec registrants, including us. executive officers of the registrant see executive officers of the registrant in item 4a for information about our executive officers. forward-looking statements statements in this annual report on form 10-k and in our other filings with the sec, as well as other statements we may make from time to time, other than statements of historical fact, constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in these statements. factors that may cause such differences include: changes in government and customer priorities and requirements (including government budgetary constraints, shifts in defense spending, and changes in customer short-range and long-range plans); our ability to obtain new contracts, estimate our future contract costs and perform our contracts effectively; changes in government regulations and procurement processes and our ability to comply with such requirements; our ability to realize the expected benefits from consolidation of our ingalls facilities; natural disasters; adverse economic conditions in the united states and globally; risks related to our indebtedness and leverage; and other risk factors discussed herein and in our filings with the sec. there may be other risks and uncertainties that we are unable to predict at this time or that we currently do not expect to have a material adverse effect on our business, and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements. you should not place undue reliance on any forward looking statements that we may make. 10 table of contents item 1a. risk factors an investment in our common stock or debt securities involves risks and uncertainties. we seek to identify, manage, and mitigate risks to our business, but risk and uncertainty cannot be eliminated or necessarily predicted. you should consider the following factors carefully, in addition to the other information contained in this annual report on form 10-k, before deciding to purchase our securities. risks related to our business we depend heavily on a single customer, the u.s. government, for substantially all of our business, and changes affecting this customer's ability to do business with us could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. our business is primarily dependent upon the design, construction, repair, maintenance, fleet support and life cycle services of nuclear-powered ships, such as aircraft carriers and submarines, and non-nuclear ships, such as surface combatants and expeditionary warfare and amphibious assault ships, for the u.s. navy and coastal defense surface ships for the u.s. coast guard, as well as the refueling and overhaul and inactivation of nuclear-powered ships for the u.s. navy. substantially all of our revenues in 2013 were derived from products and services ultimately sold to the u.s. government, and we expect this to continue in the foreseeable future. in addition, substantially all of our backlog was u.s. government related as of december 31, 2013 . we are a supplier, either directly or as a subcontractor or team member, to the u.s. government and its agencies. the related contracts are subject to various risks, including our customers' political and budgetary constraints and processes, changes in customers' short-range and long-range strategic plans, the timing of contract awards, significant changes in contract scheduling, intense contract and funding competition, difficulty in forecasting costs and schedules for bids on developmental and highly sophisticated technical work, delays in the timing of contract approval, and contractor suspension or debarment in the event of certain violations of legal or regulatory requirements. any of these factors could affect our ability to do business with the u.s. government, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. contracts with the u.s. government are subject to uncertain levels of funding, modification due to changes in customer priorities and potential termination. we are directly dependent upon congressional allocation of defense funds to the u.s. navy and the u.s. coast guard. the funding of u.s. government programs is subject to congressional budget authorization and appropriation processes. for certain programs, congress appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis even though a program may be performed over several fiscal years. consequently, programs are often partially funded initially and may receive additional funding only as congress makes further appropriations. if we incur costs in excess of existing funding on a contract, we may be at risk for reimbursement of those costs until additional funds are appropriated. we cannot predict the extent to which total funding or funding for individual programs will be included, increased or reduced as part of the annual budget process, in continuing resolutions, or in individual supplemental appropriations. the impact of congressional actions to reduce the federal debt and resulting pressures on federal spending could adversely affect the total funding of individual ships or funding for individual programs and delay purchasing or payment decisions by our customers. in august 2011, the budget control act (the "bca") reduced the dod top-line budget by $487 billion from fiscal year 2012 through 2021, representing approximately 8% of planned defense spending. additionally, because congress did not identify savings to reduce the u.s. deficit by up to $1.2 trillion prior to march 1, 2013, budgetary sequestration was implemented under the bca. sequestration requires an additional reduction from fiscal year 2012 through 2021 of $500 billion for defense spending, representing approximately 9% of planned defense spending, and $500 billion for non-defense discretionary spending, including the u.s. coast guard. on december 26, 2013, the president signed into law the bipartisan budget act of 2013 (the "bipartisan budget act"), which provided $63 billion in sequestration relief over two years, split evenly between defense and non-defense programs, and set overall discretionary spending at $1.012 trillion for fiscal year 2014 and $1.013 trillion for fiscal year 2015. sequestration remains in effect under the bca for fiscal years 2016 through 2021. enactment of the bipartisan budget act enabled the house and senate appropriations committees to agree upon appropriations levels across all 12 appropriations committees, including defense appropriations and homeland security 11 table of contents appropriations, and to subsequently pass the consolidated appropriations act for fiscal year 2014 (the "fy 2014 act"). the fy 2014 act specifically provided funding for the advance construction of cvn-79 john f. kennedy , construction of two ssn-774 virginia -class submarines, continuation of the cvn-72 uss abraham lincoln rcoh, continuation of ddg-51 arleigh burke -class destroyer production, and cost to complete for lha-6 america . the fy 2014 act also fully funded construction of nsc-7 kimball , and provided funding for nsc-8 midgett long-lead-time material. while the bipartisan budget act eliminated the implementation of sequestration reductions for fiscal years 2014 and 2015, significant uncertainty exists regarding the specific effects of sequestration in fiscal years 2016 through 2021, and related funding reductions that could result in the cancellation of or decreased funding for our existing programs and/or a lack of funding for future programs. delivery of the fiscal year 2015 president's budget request has been deferred until early march 2014. the impact of the continuing federal fiscal debates remains uncertain, and we cannot predict the impact that the sequestration cuts, other defense spending cuts, or the prospective lack of a fiscal year 2015 defense appropriations bill may have on funding for our individual programs. long-term funding for certain programs in which we participate may be reduced, delayed, or cancelled. in addition, defense spending cuts and delays could adversely affect the viability of our suppliers and subcontractors. our contracts or subcontracts under programs in which we participate may be terminated or adjusted by the u.s. government or the prime contractor as a result of lack of government funding or reductions or delays in government funding, which would adversely affect our future sales under such programs and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. demand for our products and services can also be affected by potential changes in customer priorities due to military transformation and planning or the nature of war related activity. we cannot predict the impact of such changes on existing, follow-on or replacement programs. a shift of government priorities to programs in which we do not participate and/or reductions in funding for or the termination of programs in which we do participate could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. the u.s. government generally has the ability to terminate contracts, in whole or in part, with little to no prior notice, for convenience or for default based on performance. in the event of termination for the u.s. government's convenience, contractors are normally protected by provisions covering reimbursement of costs already incurred on the contracts and profit related to those costs but not the anticipated profit that would have been earned had the contract been completed. such a termination could also result in the cancellation of future work on the related program. termination resulting from our default can expose us to various liabilities, including excess re-procurement costs, and could negatively affect our ability to compete for future contracts. any contract termination could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. cost growth on fixed price and other contracts that cannot be justified as increases in contract value due from customers exposes us to reduced profitability and to the potential loss of future business. our operating income is adversely affected when we incur certain contract costs or certain increases in contract costs that cannot be billed to customers. cost growth can occur if expenses to complete a contract increase due to technical challenges, manufacturing difficulties, delays, workforce-related issues or inaccurate initial estimates used for calculating contract costs. reasons may include unavailability or reduced productivity of labor, the nature and complexity of the work to be performed, the timeliness and availability of materials, major subcontractor performance or product quality issues, performance delays, availability and timing of funding from the customer and natural disasters. the process of estimating contract costs requires significant judgment and expertise. a significant increase in contract costs from our original cost estimates on one or more programs could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. our ability to recover the costs we incur and realize profits on contracts with our u.s. government customers depends on the type of contract under which we are performing. our u.s. government business is currently performed under firm fixed price ("ffp"), fixed price incentive ("fpi"), cost plus incentive fee ("cpif"), cost plus fixed fee ("cpff") and cost plus award fee ("cpaf") contracts. under ffp contracts, we retain all cost savings on completed contracts but are responsible for the full amount of all expenditures in excess of the contract price. fpi contracts, on the other hand, are flexibly priced agreements under which overruns and underruns to an agreed target cost are shared between the u.s. government and us. the u.s. government is liable for its share of 12 table of contents allowable costs up to a ceiling price, and we are responsible for all costs incurred in excess of such ceiling price, typically 125-135% of target cost. our profit on fpi contracts varies according to a formula set forth in the contract that generally compares the amount of costs incurred to the contract target cost. under cpif, cpff and cpaf contracts, we are generally required to perform the contract only to the extent the u.s. government makes funds available, and we recover all allowable costs incurred in the performance of the contract. under cpif contracts, our profit is determined by a contractually specified formula that compares allowable incurred costs to the contract target cost, subject in some instances to a maximum or minimum fee percentage. under cpff contracts, the dollar amount of profit received is the same without regard to the amount of costs incurred. under cpaf contracts, the dollar amount of profit received is determined by the award fee provisions in the contract. of ingalls ' revenues in 2013 , approximately 79% were generated from fpi contracts, approximately 10% were generated from cpaf contracts, approximately 8% were generated from cpff contracts, and approximately 3% were generated from ffp contracts. of newport news' 2013 revenues, approximately 45% were generated from cpif contracts, which primarily included aircraft carrier construction and rcoh contracts, approximately 31% were generated from cpff contracts, approximately 23% were generated from fpi contracts, consisting primarily of submarine construction contracts, and approximately 1% were generated from ffp contracts. to the extent our mix of contract types change in the future, our ability to recover our costs and realize profits on our contracts can be negatively affected. our earnings and margins depend on our ability to perform under contracts. when agreeing to contract terms, we make assumptions and projections about future conditions and events, many of which extend over long periods. these projections assess the productivity and availability of labor, the complexity of the work to be performed, the cost and availability of materials, the impact of delayed performance and the timing of product deliveries. we may experience significant variances from our assumptions and projections, delays in our contract performance and variances in the timing of our product deliveries. if actual events differ significantly from one or more of our assumptions or projections, or, if we incur unanticipated contract costs, the profitability of the related contracts may be adversely affected. our earnings and margins depend, in part, on subcontractor performance and raw material and component availability and pricing. we rely on other companies to provide raw materials, major components and sub-systems for our products, and we rely on subcontractors to produce hardware elements and sub-assemblies and perform certain services that we provide to our customers. we are subject to potential delivery disruptions and performance problems caused by our suppliers and subcontractors. our ability to perform our obligations as a prime contractor could be adversely affected if one or more of our suppliers or subcontractors are unable to provide the agreed-upon products or materials or perform the agreed-upon services in a timely and cost-effective manner. our costs to manufacture our products can increase over the terms of our contracts. we may be protected from increases in material costs through cost escalation provisions contained in some of our u.s. government contracts, to the extent that such increases are consistent with industry indices. even with these provisions, however, the difference in basis between our actual material costs and these indices may expose us to cost uncertainty. in addition, significant delays in deliveries of key raw materials, which may occur as a result of availability or price, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. in connection with our government contracts, we are required to procure certain raw materials, components and parts from supply sources approved by the u.s. government. due largely to the consolidation of the defense industry, there are currently certain components for which only one supplier exists. the inability of a sole source supplier to provide a necessary component in a timely or cost-effective manner could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. our results of operations depend on awards of new contracts. the prospects of u.s. shipyards, including ours, are materially affected by their success in securing significant u.s. navy contract awards. in february 2006, the u.s. navy presented to congress a goal of achieving and maintaining a fleet of 313 ships. each year, the u.s. navy presents to congress the navy's annual report to congress on long-range plan for construction of naval vessels (the "shipbuilding plan"), which includes the navy's shipbuilding plan for the next five years and a long-range projection of new ship construction for the 13 table of contents following 25 years. the u.s. navy's shipbuilding plan for fiscal year 2013 (the "2013 shipbuilding plan") included a fleet goal of 310 to 316 ships, down from the fleet goal of 328 ships included in the navy's shipbuilding plan for fiscal year 2012 (the "2012 shipbuilding plan"), and the procurement of 268 ships over the next 30 years, down from the 275-ship procurement included in the 2012 shipbuilding plan. the dod released in january 2012 the defense strategic guidance, a new set of strategic military priorities and guidance. in may 2013, the u.s. navy released its annual long range plan for the construction of naval vessels for 2014 (the "2014 long range plan"). the 2014 long range plan anticipates a fleet of 306 ships comprised of 12 ballistic missile submarines, 11 nuclear-powered aircraft carriers, 48 nuclear-powered attack submarines, 88 large multi-mission surface combatants, 52 small multi-role surface combatants, 33 amphibious landing ships, 29 combat logistics force ships, and 33 support vessels. the 2014 long range plan also notes that the four ssgn currently in service will retire in the mid-2020s, and the u.s. navy is exploring the possibility of inserting a quad-pack of large diameter payload tubes in block v ssn-774 virginia -class submarines to offset the loss of the ssgn strike capability. the 2014 long range plan also acknowledges that the dod will encounter several challenges in executing the plan, particularly with regard to funding new submarines to replace the ohio -class nuclear ballistic submarines. significant reductions in the number of ships procured by the u.s. navy would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. we believe our shipbuilding programs are a high priority for national defense, but, under federal budgetary pressures, one or more of our programs may be reduced, extended or terminated by our u.s. government customers. specific actions that could negatively affect us include the deferral of production of new amphibious ships, the reduction in the number of planned large surface combatants, an increase in the procurement interval for aircraft carriers beyond five years, and postponement or cancellation of the rcoh for cvn-73 uss george washington . in response to the need for cheaper alternatives and the proliferation of "smart weapons," future strategy reassessments by the dod may result in a decreased need for our shipbuilding programs, including our aircraft carrier programs. for the year ended december 31, 2013 , our aircraft carrier programs accounted for approximately 41% of our consolidated revenue. significant reductions in congressional appropriations for our shipbuilding programs or significant delays in such appropriations could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. the department of defense has announced plans for significant changes to its business practices that could have a material effect on its overall procurement process and adversely impact our current programs and potential new awards. in november 2010, the dod announced certain initiatives designed to gain efficiencies, refocus priorities and enhance business practices used by the dod, including those used to procure goods and services from defense contractors. these initiatives are organized into five major areas: affordability and cost growth; productivity and innovation; competition; services acquisition; and processes and bureaucracy. our understanding is that these initiatives are intended to reduce costs and enhance efficiencies and productivity. in november 2012, the dod expanded its focus on business process improvements by introducing better buying power 2.0 ("bbp 2.0"), which established higher standards and stronger professional qualification requirements for key leadership positions in the acquisition workforce and increased the cost consciousness of the acquisition workforce. bbp 2.0 also includes initiatives focused on enforcing affordability caps, controlling costs through cost performance measures, encouraging stronger partnerships with the requirements community and incentivizing industry by aligning profitability more tightly with dod goals and employing appropriate contract types. in april 2013, the dod issued an implementation directive for bbp 2.0, which contained several of the key overarching principles that underlie bbp 2.0, including effective incentives to industry, especially competitive pressures; insistence on demonstrated progress before major commitments; and use of the right contract type for the job. in november 2013, the dod also embarked upon an assessment to perform a cost-benefit analysis of regulatory and statutory requirements that might be implemented more effectively, changed, or eliminated. we expect dod's focus on business practices to impact the contracting environment in which we operate as we and others in the industry adjust our practices to address the new initiatives and the reduced level of spending by the dod. we are taking steps internally to assess how we can respond to and support these changes, including how we can further reduce costs and increase productivity, modify how we respond to proposals and revise our areas of focus. depending on how these initiatives are implemented, they could have an impact on current programs, as well as new business opportunities. 14 table of contents our future success depends, in part, on our ability to deliver our products and services at an affordable life cycle cost, requiring us to develop and maintain technologies, facilities, equipment and a qualified workforce to meet the needs of current and future customers. shipbuilding is a long cycle business, and our success depends on quality, cost and schedule performance on our contracts. we must develop and sustain the workforce, technologies, facilities, equipment and financial capacity needed to deliver our products and services at an affordable life cycle cost. if we fail to maintain our competitive position, we could lose future contracts to our competitors, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. our operating results are heavily dependent upon our ability to attract and retain a sufficient number of engineers and skilled workers at competitive costs and with the necessary skills and/or security clearances. at the same time, stable future revenues and costs are important for us to maintain a qualified workforce. development and maintenance of the necessary nuclear expertise and the challenges of hiring and training a qualified workforce can be a limitation on our business. if qualified personnel become scarce, we could experience higher labor, recruiting or training costs to attract and retain qualified employees, or, if we fail to attract and retain qualified personnel, we could incur difficulties in performing our contracts and attracting new business. competition within our markets or an increase in bid protests may reduce our revenues and market share. u.s. defense spending levels are uncertain and difficult to predict. while the u.s. navy's 2014 long range plan anticipates a fleet size of 306 ships, the plan does not include enough ships to fully support all elements of the navy's ships goal over the 30-year period. the u.s. navy currently projects that shortfalls would occur at various points during this 30-year period in ballistic missile submarines, cruisers-destroyers, attack submarines, and amphibious ships. declines in u.s. defense spending that reduce the demand for the types of ships we build and services we provide increase our risk exposure to market competition. we compete with another large defense contractor for construction contracts to build surface combatants, and we may in the future compete with the same and other defense contractors to build other of our products. if we are unable to continue to compete successfully against our current or future competitors, we may experience declines in revenues and market share, which could negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. although we are the only company currently capable of refueling nuclear-powered aircraft carriers, we believe that two existing u.s. government-owned shipyards could refuel nuclear-powered aircraft carriers if substantial investments in facilities, personnel and training were made. u.s. government-owned shipyards engage in the refueling, overhaul and inactivation of ssn-688 los angeles -class submarines and are capable of repairing and overhauling non-nuclear ships. the 2012 national defense authorization act required dod to develop a core depot level maintenance capability to refuel nuclear aircraft carriers. the 2013 defense authorization act, however, modified the 2012 act by restoring an exception for the nuclear refueling of an aircraft carrier from the definition of core depot level maintenance. the 2013 act also amended and clarified the exception to cover the concurrent refueling and overhaul of an aircraft carrier, as well as the defueling of an aircraft carrier. similarly, the 2013 act restored an exclusion for nuclear aircraft carrier programs from the definition of core logistics capabilities that was contained in previous law. if a u.s. government-owned shipyard were to become capable and engaged in the business of refueling nuclear-powered aircraft carriers, our financial position, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely affected. we also compete in the engineering, planning and design market with other companies that provide engineering support services. such competition increases the risk that we may not be the successful bidder on future u.s. navy engineering proposals, including aircraft carrier research and development, submarine design and future surface combatant and amphibious assault ship program contracts. our competitive environment is also affected by bid protests from unsuccessful bidders on new program awards. as the competitive environment intensifies, the number of bid protests may increase. bid protests can result in an award decision being overturned, requiring a re-bid of the contract. even when a bid protest does not result in a re-bid, resolution of the matter typically extends the time until contract performance can begin, which may reduce our earnings in the period in which the contract would otherwise have performed. 15 table of contents overcapacity in the u.s. shipbuilding market may reduce our market share or our ability to secure contract awards at profitable prices. the reduced level of shipbuilding activity by the u.s. navy, evidenced by the reduction in fleet size from 566 ships in 1989 to 283 ships as of december 31, 2013 , has resulted in workforce reductions in the industry but little infrastructure consolidation. the general result has been fewer contracts awarded to the same fixed number of shipyards. six major private united states shipyards, three of which we own, plus numerous other smaller private shipyards compete for contracts to construct, overhaul, repair and convert naval vessels. we intend to cease all military shipbuilding operations in our louisiana facilities in 2014. competition for future shipbuilding programs is expected to be intense. additionally, our products, such as aircraft carriers, submarines, amphibious assault ships, surface combatants and other ships, compete for funding with each other, as well as with other defense products and services. future rationalization of shipyard capacity in the united states might occur, and we could be affected by shipyard consolidation or closures as a result of the reduced level of u.s. navy spending on ship construction. any further reduction could have a significant effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. as a u.s. government contractor, we are heavily regulated and could be adversely affected by changes in regulations or any negative findings from a u.s. government audit or investigation. u.s. government contractors must comply with significant regulatory requirements, including procurement, nuclear and other requirements. government contracting requirements increase our contract performance and compliance costs. our nuclear operations are subject to an enhanced regulatory environment, which results in increased performance and compliance efforts and costs. changes in regulations and related requirements can increase our compliance costs and reduce our profit margins. we operate in a heavily regulated environment and are routinely audited and reviewed by the u.s. government and its various agencies, such as the u.s. navy's supervisor of shipbuilding, the dcaa and the dcma. these agencies review our contract performance, cost structures and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards, as well as the adequacy of, and our compliance with, our internal control systems and internal policies. systems subject to audit or review include our accounting systems, purchasing systems, billing systems, property management and control systems, cost estimating systems, earned value management systems, compensation systems and management information systems. any costs we incur that are found to be unallowable or improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed or must be refunded if previously reimbursed. if an audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension and prohibition from doing business with the u.s. government. allegations of impropriety can also cause us significant reputational harm. whether or not illegal activities are alleged, the u.s. government has the ability, pursuant to regulations relating to contractor business systems, to decrease or withhold contract payments if it determines significant deficiencies exist in one or more such systems. the u.s. government has, in certain instances, withheld payments on certain of our contracts subject to these regulations upon its assessment that deficiencies exist with one or more of our business systems. we are modifying our affected business systems to address the u.s. government's concerns. as with other government contractors, the u.s. government has, from time to time, recommended that certain of our contract prices be reduced, or that certain costs allocated to our contracts be disallowed. these recommendations sometimes involve substantial dollar amounts. in response to u.s. government audits, investigations and inquiries, we have also in the past made adjustments to our contract prices and the costs allocated to our government contracts. such audits, investigations and inquiries may result in future reductions of our contract prices. we must comply with a variety of federal laws, including the truth in negotiations act, the false claims act, the procurement integrity act, the international traffic in arms regulations promulgated under the arms export control act, the close the contractor fraud loophole act, the foreign corrupt practices act and cost accounting standards, and we are subject, from time to time, to u.s. government investigations relating to our operations. if we are convicted or otherwise found to have violated the law, or are found not to have acted responsibly as defined by the law, we may be subject to reductions in the value of contracts, contract modifications or terminations, the assessment of penalties and fines or compensatory or treble damages, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. such findings or convictions could also result in 16 table of contents suspension or debarment from government contracting. any suspension or debarment would likely have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. many of our contracts contain performance obligations that require innovative design capabilities, are technologically complex, require certain manufacturing expertise or are dependent upon factors not wholly within our control, and failure to meet these obligations could adversely affect our profitability and future prospects. we design, develop and manufacture products and provide services applied by our customers in a variety of environments. problems and delays in product development or with delivery of subcontractor components or services as a result of issues with respect to design, technology, licensing and intellectual property rights, labor, learning curve assumptions or materials and components could prevent us from satisfying contractual requirements. first-in-class ships, also known as lead ships, usually have new technology that is supplied by the u.s. navy, other contractors, or us. problems in developing these new technologies or design changes in the construction process can lead to delays in maintaining the design schedule needed for construction. the risk associated with new technology or mid-construction design changes can both increase the cost of a ship and delay delivery. late delivery of information can also cause inefficiencies in the construction process, increase costs and put the delivery schedule at risk, which could adversely affect our profitability and future prospects. our products cannot always be tested and proven and are otherwise subject to unforeseen problems, including premature failure of products that cannot be accessed for repair or replacement, substandard quality or workmanship and unplanned degradation of product performance. these failures could result in loss of life or property and could negatively affect our results of operations by causing unanticipated expenses not covered by insurance or indemnification from the customer, diversion of management focus in responding to unforeseen problems, loss of follow-on work and, in the case of certain contracts, repayment to the government customer of contract cost and fee payments previously received. we have experienced quality issues in the past with respect to products and services that we sell to our u.s. government customers. these issues have required significant resources to analyze the source of the deficiencies and implement corrective actions. we may discover quality issues in the future related to our products and services that require analysis and corrective action. such issues and our responses and corrective actions could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. we may not realize the anticipated benefits or may incur additional costs related to the wind down of military shipbuilding at our louisiana facilities and the consolidation of all ingalls construction into our pascagoula shipyard. we intend to wind down military shipbuilding at our louisiana facilities, including avondale, our louisiana shipyard, in 2014 and consolidate all ingalls military shipbuilding into our pascagoula shipyard. we are shifting construction of future lpd-class ships to a single production line at our pascagoula shipyard to reduce costs, increase efficiency and address shipbuilding overcapacity. shifting avondale ' military shipbuilding to our pascagoula shipyard may not result in our realization of anticipated benefits from serial production at that facility. in connection with the increased utilization of our employees and facilities in our pascagoula shipyard, we may encounter difficulties adhering to back-to-back production schedules. any such difficulties could have an adverse effect on our ability to timely perform our existing contracts and our ability to obtain new contracts in the future. moreover, the concentration of our ingalls workforce in pascagoula may inhibit our ability to attract and retain a sufficient number of skilled and trained employees to perform the increased workload. any failure to attract and retain the necessary workforce, or to effectively manage and control third-party contractors, could adversely affect our ability to perform our contracts and have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. we anticipate that we will incur substantial restructuring costs and asset write-downs, currently estimated at $256 million , related to the wind down of our operations at avondale. we believe that substantially all such expenses will be recoverable under existing flexibly-priced contracts or future negotiated contracts in accordance with far provisions governing the treatment of restructuring and shutdown related costs. the dcaa prepared an initial audit report on our july 30, 2010, cost recovery proposal of $310 million, which stated that the proposal was not adequately supported for the dcaa to reach a conclusion and questioned approximately $25 million , or 8% , of the costs included in the proposal. we then submitted a revised proposal dated october 12, 2011 to address the 17 table of contents concerns of the dcaa and to reflect a revised estimated total cost of $ 271 million . we received a supplemental dcaa audit report, which again stated that the proposal was not sufficiently supported to allow the dcaa to reach a conclusion. the amount and percentage of questioned costs were materially unchanged from the previous audit report. we submitted another revised proposal that addresses the dcaa concerns and supports our current restructuring cost estimate of $256 million . although closure is still the baseline assumption for avondale, we are pursuing other opportunities to utilize this facility. if we are successful in pursuing such opportunities, and avondale remains open, we would submit a revised restructuring proposal to the u.s. navy consistent with this change. in such event, we expect that our total estimated restructuring costs would decrease. while the restructuring costs that are currently capitalized, consisting primarily of severance and retention payments as well as retired fixed assets, should remain recoverable under existing or future u.s. navy contracts, other costs would remain as part of the avondale cost structure associated with avondale's new line of business. whether we close avondale entirely or keep the facility open in a new line of business, we currently do not have an agreement with the u.s. navy regarding the government contract accounting and pricing treatment of the restructuring and shutdown costs associated with our wind down at avondale. we may also incur environmental costs in connection with the wind down. such costs, which we cannot reasonably estimate at this time, could be significant. the actual restructuring expenses we incur in connection with our wind down of avondale, including potential environmental costs, may be greater than our current estimate, and any inability to recover such costs could result in a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. we use estimates when accounting for contracts. changes in estimates could affect our profitability and our overall financial position. contract accounting requires judgment relative to assessing risks, estimating contract revenues and costs, and making assumptions for schedule and technical issues. the size and nature of many of our contracts make the estimation of total revenues and costs at completion complicated and subject to many variables. for new shipbuilding programs, we estimate, negotiate and contract for construction of ships that are not completely designed. assessing risks, estimating contract revenues and costs and making assumptions for schedule and technical issues for these ships are subject to the variability of the final ship design and evolving scope of work. our assumptions on ship contracts include the length of time to complete the contract, because total costs include expected increases in wages and material prices. similarly, our assumptions include the future impact of our efficiency initiatives and cost reduction efforts. we consider incentives, awards and penalties related to contract performance in estimating revenues and profit rates, and we record them when sufficient information exists to assess anticipated contract performance. the judgment and estimation processes described above are significant to our contract accounting, and materially different amounts can be generated if different assumptions are used or if actual events differ from our assumptions. future changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates may have a material adverse effect on our future financial position, results of operations or cash flows. see critical accounting policies, estimates, and judgments in item 7. our business is subject to disruption caused by natural disasters, environmental disasters and other factors that could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. we have significant operations located in regions of the united states that have been and may be exposed to damaging storms, such as hurricanes, floods and environmental disasters, such as oil spills. although preventative measures may help to mitigate damage, the damage and disruption resulting from natural and environmental disasters may be significant. natural disasters can disrupt our facilities, systems or projects, which can interrupt operational processes and performance on our contracts. in addition, should insurance or other risk transfer mechanisms be unavailable or insufficient to recover material costs associated with natural or environmental disasters, we could experience a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. see our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover all of our significant risks or our insurers may deny coverage of material losses we incur, which could adversely affect our profitability and financial position in this section . 18 table of contents natural disasters can disrupt our workforce, electrical and other power distribution networks, including computer and internet operations and accessibility and the critical industrial infrastructure needed for normal business operations. these disruptions could adversely affect our contract performance and financial results. environmental disasters, particularly oil spills in waterways and bodies of water used for the transport and testing of our ships, can disrupt the timing of performance under our contracts with the u.s. navy and the u.s. coast guard. our suppliers and subcontractors are also subject to natural and environmental disasters that could affect their ability to deliver products or services or otherwise perform their contracts. performance failures by our subcontractors due to natural or environmental disasters may adversely affect our ability to perform our obligations on a contract, which could reduce our profitability in the event damages or other costs are not recoverable from the subcontractor, the customer or insurers. such events could also result in a termination of the prime contract and have an adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts. our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover all of our significant risks or our insurers may deny coverage of material losses we incur, which could adversely affect our profitability and financial position. we seek to identify and obtain, in established markets, insurance agreements to cover our significant risks and potential liabilities, including, among others, natural disasters, product liability and business interruption resulting from an insured property loss. in some circumstances, we may be indemnified for losses by the u.s. government, subject to the availability of appropriated funds. not every risk or liability can be protected by insurance, and, for insurable risks, the limits of coverage reasonably obtainable in the market may not be sufficient to cover the full amount of actual losses or liabilities incurred, including, for example, in the case of a catastrophic hurricane. in addition, the nature of our business makes it difficult to quantify the disruptive impact of such events. such limitations on the availability of insurance coverage may result in us bearing substantial costs for uninsured losses that could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. even in cases where we have insurance coverage, disputes with insurance carriers over coverage may affect the timing of cash flows, and, if litigation with the insurance carrier becomes necessary, an outcome unfavorable to us may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. our business could suffer if we are unsuccessful in negotiating new collective bargaining agreements. approximately 50% of our approximately 38,000 employees are covered by a total of nine collective bargaining agreements. newport news has three collective bargaining agreements covering represented employees, which expire in april 2014, june 2014 and july 2017. ingalls has six collective bargaining agreements covering represented employees, five of which cover pascagoula and gulfport employees and one of which covers avondale employees. the five pascagoula/gulfport collective bargaining agreements expire in march 2015. the avondale collective bargaining agreement was indefinitely extended upon its last expiration. collective bargaining agreements generally expire after three to five years, and we must negotiate successor agreements as each of our collective bargaining agreements expires. while we believe we maintain good relationships with our represented workers, it is possible that we may experience difficulties with renegotiating expiring collective bargaining agreements. we have, in the past, experienced work stoppages, strikes and other labor disruptions associated with the collective bargaining of new labor agreements. if we experience such events in the future, we could incur additional expenses or work delays that could adversely affect programs served by employees who are covered by collective bargaining agreements. significant changes in key estimates and assumptions, such as discount rates and assumed long-term returns on assets, actual investment returns on our pension plan assets, and legislative and regulatory actions could affect our earnings, equity and contributions to our pension and retiree health care plans in future periods. our pension and retiree health care costs are dependent on significant judgment in the use of various estimates and assumptions, particularly with respect to the discount rate and expected long-term rates of return on plan assets. changes to these estimates and assumptions could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. differences between actual investment returns and our assumed long-term returns on assets will result in changes in future pension expense and the funded status of our plans, and could increase future funding of the plans. 19 table of contents timing differences exist between the accrual of pension costs under accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america ("gaap"), pension funding requirements and the recovery of pension costs that are allowable under our government contracts. such timing differences could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. on december 27, 2011, the u.s. cost accounting standards ("cas") board issued its final cas harmonization rule. the new rule impacts pension costs on contracts beginning in 2013 and is effective for forward pricing purposes for contracts negotiated on or after february 27, 2012. although we believe that contractors are entitled to an equitable adjustment on cas-covered contracts awarded prior to the february 27, 2012 effective date, the application of this rule could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows if we are unable to successfully recover such equitable adjustment. for a complete discussion regarding how our consolidated financial statements can be affected by pension plan accounting policies and regulatory changes, see critical accounting policies, estimates, and judgments in item 7. unforeseen environmental costs could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. our operations are subject to and affected by a variety of existing federal, state and local environmental protection laws and regulations. in addition, we could be affected by future laws or regulations, including those imposed in response to climate change concerns or other actions commonly referred to as "green initiatives." we expect to incur future capital and operating costs to comply with current and future environmental laws and regulations, and such costs could be substantial, depending on the future proliferation of environmental rules and regulations and the extent to which we discover currently unknown environmental conditions . the nature of shipbuilding operations requires the use of hazardous materials. our shipyards also generate significant quantities of wastewater, which we treat before discharging pursuant to various permits. to handle these materials, our shipyards have an extensive network of aboveground and underground storage tanks, some of which have leaked and required remediation in the past. in addition, handling of these materials sometimes results in spills in our shipyards and occasionally in adjacent rivers and waterways where we operate. our shipyards maintain extensive waste handling programs that we periodically modify, consistent with changes in applicable laws and regulations. see environmental, health and safety in item 1. various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations impose restrictions on the discharge of pollutants into the environment and establish standards for the transportation, storage and disposal of toxic and hazardous wastes. stringent fines and penalties may be imposed for noncompliance, and certain environmental laws impose joint and several "strict liability" for remediation of spills and releases of oil and hazardous substances. such laws and regulations render a party liable for environmental cleanup and remediation costs and damage without regard to negligence or fault on the part of such party, and may expose us to liability for the conduct of or conditions caused by third parties. environmental laws and regulations also impose substantial fines and criminal sanctions for violations, and may require the installation of costly pollution control equipment or operational changes to limit pollution emissions or discharges and/or to decrease the likelihood of accidental hazardous substance releases. we incur, and expect to continue to incur, costs to comply with federal and state environmental laws and regulations related to the cleanup of pollutants previously released into the environment. in addition, if we are found to be in violation of the clean air act or the clean water act, the facility or facilities involved in the violation could be placed by the epa on the "excluded parties list" maintained by the general services administration, which would continue until the epa concluded that the cause of the violation was cured. facilities on the "excluded parties list" are prohibited from working on any u.s. government contract. the adoption of new environmental laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, imposition of new cleanup requirements, discovery of previously unknown or more extensive contamination, litigation involving environmental impacts, our inability to recover related costs under our government contracts or the financial insolvency of other responsible parties could cause us to incur costs that could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. we are winding down military shipbuilding at our louisiana facilities, which we anticipate will be completed in 2014. our wind down of operations at these facilities may result in environmental costs, the amount of which we cannot 20 table of contents currently estimate. such costs could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. market volatility and adverse capital or credit market conditions may affect our ability to access cost-effective sources of funding and may expose us to risks associated with the financial viability of suppliers and the ability of counterparties to perform on financial instruments. the financial markets can experience high levels of volatility and disruption, reducing the availability of credit for certain issuers. we sometimes access these markets to support certain business activities, including acquisitions and capital expansion projects, obtaining credit support for our workers' compensation self-insurance program, refinancing existing indebtedness, and arranging for letters of credit. depending on the condition of the capital or credit markets existing at the time, we may be unable in the future to obtain capital market financing or bank financing on favorable terms, or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. tightening credit markets could also adversely affect our suppliers' ability to obtain financing. delays in suppliers' ability to obtain financing, or the unavailability of financing, could negatively affect their ability to perform their contracts with us and cause our inability to meet our contract obligations. the inability of our suppliers to obtain financing could also result in the need for us to transition to alternate suppliers, which could result in significant incremental costs and delays. we have existing agreements with counterparties in the financial markets, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks and other institutional parties, and may in the future enter into agreements with such parties. these transactions expose us to potential credit risk in the event of default of a counterparty. in addition, our credit risk may be increased when collateral held by us to secure performance of a counterparty cannot be realized upon a sale or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount due us. our reputation and our ability to do business may be impacted by the improper conduct of employees, agents or business partners. our compliance program includes detailed compliance plans and extensive compliance controls, policies and procedures designed to prevent and detect reckless or criminal acts committed by employees, agents or business partners that would violate the laws of the jurisdictions in which we operate, including laws governing payments to government officials, security clearance breaches, cost accounting and billing, competition and data privacy. we may not, however, prevent all such reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees, agents or business partners. any improper actions could subject us to civil and criminal investigations and monetary and non-monetary penalties, including suspension or debarment from contracting with the u.s. government, which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. in january 2013, we disclosed to the dod, including the u.s. navy, and the u.s. department of homeland security, including the u.s. coast guard, pursuant to the far, that we had initiated an internal investigation regarding whether certain employees at ingalls mischarged time or misstated progress on u.s. navy and u.s. coast guard contracts. we conducted an internal investigation, led by external counsel, and have taken remedial actions, including the termination of employees in instances where we believed grounds for termination existed. we are providing information regarding our investigation to the relevant government agencies. we agreed with the u.s. navy and u.s. coast guard that they would initially withhold $24 million in payments on existing contracts pending receipt of additional information from our internal investigation. the u.s. navy has reduced its portion of the withhold from $18.2 million to $9.4 million, while expressing its view that the gross amount of potential mischarging may be $5.1 million. the u.s. coast guard informed us that it would be premature for the coast guard to reduce its $5.8 million portion of the withhold. based on the results of our internal investigation, we estimate that the maximum amount of the mischarging is approximately $4 million. we are in discussions with our u.s. government customers regarding the potential release of an additional portion of the withheld funds, but we cannot predict whether these customers will agree to a lower withhold amount. depending upon the u.s. government's assessment of the matters under investigation, we could be subject to significant civil penalties, criminal fines, and suspension or debarment from u.s. government contracting. although we do not currently believe that this matter will have a material effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, we cannot predict what new information might come to light in the future and can therefore give no assurances regarding the ultimate outcome of this matter. 21 table of contents our business could be negatively impacted by security threats, including cyber security threats, and related disruptions. as a defense contractor, we rely on our information technology infrastructure to process, transmit and store electronic information, including classified and other sensitive information of the u.s. government. while we maintain stringent information security policies and protocols, we face cyber security and other security threats to our information technology infrastructure, including threats to our and the u.s. government's proprietary and classified information. we face unauthorized and unlawful attempts to gain access to our information technology infrastructure, including coordinated attacks from groups of hackers, and we could also face attempts to gain physical access to classified and other sensitive information located at our facilities. our information technology infrastructure is critical to the efficient operation of our business and essential to our ability to perform day-to-day operations. breaches of our information technology infrastructure or physical facilities or other disruptions could expose us to reputational damage, potential liability or the loss of current or future contracts, including work on sensitive or classified systems for the u.s. government, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. our nuclear operations subject us to various environmental, regulatory, financial and other risks. the design, construction, refueling and overhaul, repair and inactivation of nuclear-powered aircraft carriers and nuclear-powered submarines, our nuclear facilities used to support such activities and our other nuclear operations at doe sites and commercial nuclear power plants subject us to various risks, including: potential liabilities relating to harmful effects on the environment and human health resulting from nuclear operations and the storage, handling and disposal of radioactive materials, including nuclear assemblies and their components; unplanned expenditures relating to maintenance, operation, security and repair, including repairs required by the u.s. navy, the nuclear regulatory commission or the doe; reputational harm; potential liabilities arising out of a nuclear incident whether or not it is within our control; and regulatory noncompliance and loss of authorizations or indemnifications necessary for our operations. failure to properly handle nuclear materials could pose a health risk to humans or wildlife and could cause personal injury and property damage, including environmental contamination. if a nuclear accident were to occur, its severity could be significantly affected by the volume of the materials and the speed of corrective action taken by us and emergency response personnel, as well as other factors beyond our control, such as weather and wind conditions. actions we might take in response to an accident could result in significant costs. our nuclear operations are subject to various safety related requirements imposed by the u.s. navy, doe and nuclear regulatory commission. in the event of noncompliance, these agencies may increase regulatory oversight, impose fines or shut down our operations, depending on their assessment of the severity of the situation. in addition, new or revised security and safety requirements imposed by the u.s. navy, doe and nuclear regulatory commission could necessitate substantial capital and other expenditures. subject to certain requirements and limitations, our contracts with the u.s. navy and doe generally provide for indemnity by the u.s. government for costs arising out of or resulting from our nuclear operations. we may not, however, be indemnified for all liabilities that we may incur in connection with our nuclear operations. to mitigate risks related to our commercial nuclear operations, we rely primarily on insurance carried by nuclear facility operators and our own limited insurance for losses in excess of the coverage of facility operators. such insurance, however, may not be sufficient to cover our costs in the event of an accident or business interruption relating to our commercial nuclear operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 22 table of contents changes in future business conditions could cause business investments, recorded goodwill and/or purchased intangible assets to become impaired, resulting in substantial losses and write-downs that would reduce our operating income. as part of our business strategy, we acquire non-controlling and controlling interests in businesses. acquisitions and investments are made following careful analysis and due diligence processes designed to achieve a desired return or strategic objective. business acquisitions generally involve estimates, assumptions and judgments in determining acquisition prices, which prices must be allocated among acquired assets, including goodwill, based upon fair market values. notwithstanding our analyses, due diligence processes and business integration efforts, actual operating results of acquired businesses may vary significantly from initial estimates. in such events, we may be required to write down our carrying value of the related goodwill and/or purchased intangible assets. in addition, declines in the trading price of our common equity can result in goodwill and/or purchased intangible asset impairment charges. as of december 31, 2013 , goodwill and purchased intangible assets generated from prior business acquisitions accounted for approximately 14% and 8% , respectively, of our recorded total assets. we evaluate goodwill values for impairment annually on november 30, or when evidence of potential impairment exists. we evaluate purchased intangibles when evidence of potential impairment exists. the impairment test is based on several factors requiring judgment. as a general matter, a significant decrease in expected cash flows or changes in market conditions may indicate potential impairment of recorded goodwill or purchased intangibles. adverse equity market conditions that result in a decline in market multiples and our common stock price can also result in an impairment of goodwill and/or other intangible assets. future declines in equity market multiples or the trading price of our common stock, or other factors such as reductions in future contract awards or significant adverse changes in our operating margins at ingalls could lead to future impairments of goodwill. any such impairments that result in us recording additional goodwill impairment charges could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. unanticipated changes in our tax provisions or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability and cash flow. we are subject to income taxes in the united states. significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. in addition, timing differences in the recognition of contract income for financial statement purposes and for income tax purposes can cause uncertainty with respect to the timing of income tax payments, which can have a significant impact on cash flow in a particular period. changes in applicable income tax laws and regulations, or their interpretation, could result in higher or lower income tax rates or changes in the taxability of certain sales or the deductibility of certain expenses, thereby affecting our income tax expense and profitability. in addition, the final results of any tax audits or related litigation could be materially different from our related historical income tax provisions and accruals. additionally, changes in our tax rate as a result of changes in our overall profitability, changes in tax legislation, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in differences between financial reporting income and taxable income, the examination of previously filed tax returns by taxing authorities and continuing assessments of our tax exposures can also impact our tax liabilities and affect our income tax expense, profitability and cash flow. as of december 31, 2013 , the estimated value of our uncertain tax positions was a potential liability of $14 million , which includes accrued interest and penalties. if our positions are sustained by the taxing authority in our favor, the reversal of the liability would reduce our income tax provision and cost of sales and service revenues. such tax positions may not, however, be sustained in our favor. we conduct a portion of our operations through joint ventures and strategic alliances. we may have limited control over such arrangements and have returns that are not proportional to the risks and resources we contribute. we conduct some of our operations through joint ventures with business partners. in any joint venture arrangement, differences in views among the joint venture participants may result in delayed decisions or in failures to reach agreement on major issues. we and our joint venture partners may, in certain instances, fail to reach agreement on significant decisions on a timely basis, or at all. we also cannot control the actions of our joint venture partners, including any non-performance, default by or bankruptcy of our joint venture partners, and we typically share liability 23 table of contents or have joint and/or several liability with our joint venture partners for joint venture matters. any of these factors could potentially have a material adverse effect on our joint venture operations and the profitability of our joint ventures . in joint ventures in which we hold a minority interest, we have limited control over many decisions relating to joint venture projects and internal controls relating to such projects. these joint ventures may not be subject to the same requirements regarding internal controls and internal control reporting that apply to us. as a result, internal control issues may arise that could have a material adverse effect on the joint venture. in addition, in order to establish or preserve relationships with our joint venture partners, we may agree to assume risks and contribute resources that are proportionately greater than the returns we expect to receive in the related joint venture. such agreements may reduce our income and returns on these investments compared to what we would have received if our assumed risks and contributed resources were proportionate to our returns. strategic acquisitions and investments we expect to pursue involve risks and uncertainties. in pursuing our business strategies, we review, evaluate and consider potential acquisitions and investments. in evaluating such transactions, we have to make difficult judgments regarding the value of business opportunities, technologies and other assets, and the risks and costs of potential liabilities. in addition, acquisitions and investments involve other risks and uncertainties, including the difficulty of integrating newly-acquired businesses, challenges in achieving strategic objectives and other benefits anticipated from acquisitions or investments, the diversion of management attention and resources from our existing operations and other initiatives, the potential impairment of acquired assets and the potential loss of key employees of acquired businesses. if we fail to manage acquisitions, investments and other strategic transactions successfully, our financial results, business and future prospects could be harmed. we are subject to various claims and litigation that could ultimately be resolved against us, requiring material future cash payments and/or future material charges against our operating income, materially impairing our financial position. the size, type and complexity of our business make it highly susceptible to claims and litigation. we are currently, and may in the future become, subject to various claims and litigation, including environmental claims, which, if not resolved for amounts within accrued reserves, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. claims and litigation, even if fully indemnified or insured, could negatively impact our reputation among our customers and the public, and make it more difficult for us to compete effectively or obtain adequate insurance in the future. the following paragraphs describe pending claims and litigation that, if determined adversely for amounts that exceed accrued reserves, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows: we and our predecessors-in-interest are defendants in a longstanding series of cases that have been and continue to be filed in various jurisdictions around the country, in which former and current employees and various third parties allege exposure to asbestos-containing materials while on, or associated with, our premises or while working on vessels constructed or repaired by us. the cases allege various injuries, including those associated with pleural plaque disease, asbestosis, cancer, mesothelioma and other alleged asbestos-related conditions. in some cases, several of our former executive officers are also named as defendants. although we believe the ultimate resolution of these cases will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows, we cannot predict what new or revised claims or litigation might be asserted or what information might come to light and cannot, therefore, give any assurances regarding the ultimate outcome of asbestos-related litigation. in january 2011, the u.s. department of justice first informed us, through northrop grumman, of a false claims act complaint (the "complaint") that was filed under seal in the u.s. district court for the district of columbia. the redacted copy of the complaint we received alleges that, through largely unspecified fraudulent means, we and northrop grumman obtained federal funds that were restricted by law for the consequences of hurricane katrina, and used those funds to cover costs under certain shipbuilding contracts that were unrelated to hurricane katrina and for which northrop grumman and we were not entitled to recovery under the contracts. the complaint seeks monetary damages of at least $835 million , plus penalties, attorneys' fees and other costs of suit. damages under the false claims act may be trebled upon a finding of liability. 24 table of contents in july 2012, the district court entered an order permitting us to disclose certain information not included in the redacted copy of the complaint we received, including the date the complaint was filed, the decision of the u.s. department of justice to decline intervention in the case and the principal parties involved in the case. the complaint was filed on june 2, 2010, by relators gerald m. fisher and donald c. holmes. on december 8, 2011, the department of justice filed a notice of election to decline intervention in the case. as of august 29, 2012, gerald m. fisher was no longer a relator in or party to this case. on february 28, 2013, the u.s. district court for the district of columbia granted the defendants' motion to transfer venue, and the case was transferred to the u.s. district court for the southern district of mississippi. we have filed a motion to dismiss the case and a motion to disqualify relator holmes, and all other matters are stayed pending resolution of the motion to dismiss. based upon a review to date of the information available to us, we believe that we have substantive defenses to the allegations in the complaint, that the claims as set forth in the complaint evidence a fundamental lack of understanding of the terms and conditions in our shipbuilding contracts, including the post-katrina modifications to those contracts, and the manner in which the parties performed in connection with the contracts, and that the claims as set forth in the complaint lack merit. we intend to defend this matter vigorously. while we believe that the claims as set forth in the complaint will not result in a material effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows, we cannot predict what new or revised claims might be asserted or what information might come to light and can, therefore, give no assurances regarding the ultimate outcome. we may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, which could affect our ability to compete. we own or have the right to use certain patents, trademarks, copyrights and other forms of intellectual property. the u.s. government has rights to use certain intellectual property we develop in performance of government contracts, and it may authorize others to use such intellectual property. our intellectual property is subject to challenge, invalidation, misappropriation or circumvention by third parties. we also rely upon proprietary technology, information, processes and know-how that are not protected by patents. we seek to protect this information through trade secret or confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, subcontractors and other parties, as well as through other security measures. these agreements may not, however, provide meaningful protection for our unpatented proprietary information. in the event our intellectual property rights are infringed, we may not have adequate legal remedies to maintain our rights in our intellectual property. litigation to determine the scope of our rights, even if successful, could be costly and a diversion of management's attention from other aspects of our business. in addition, trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. we have the right to use certain intellectual property licensed to us by third parties. in instances where third parties have licensed to us the right to use their intellectual property, we may be unable in the future to secure the necessary licenses to use such intellectual property on commercially reasonable terms. our debt exposes us to certain risks. as of december 31, 2013 , we had $1,779 million of debt and $650 million of additional borrowing and letter of credit capacity under our credit facility ("credit facility"). our current level of debt could have important consequences, including: increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic or industry conditions; requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, strategic initiatives and general corporate purposes; increasing our vulnerability to, and limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or the industry in which we operate; exposing us to the risk of higher interest rates, to the extent borrowings under our credit facility are subject to variable rates of interest; placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and 25 table of contents limiting our ability to borrow additional funds. because we use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service our debt, we could fail to generate sufficient cash to fund our liquidity needs or fail to satisfy the restrictive covenants and borrowing limitations to which we are subject under our debt. moreover, despite our current level of debt, we may be able to incur significant additional debt in the future. to the extent new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we face could be increased. restrictive covenants in the indenture governing our senior notes and our credit facility may restrict our ability to pursue our business strategies. the indenture governing our senior notes and the terms of our credit facility limit our ability, among other things, to: incur additional debt; pay dividends or make other distributions on, or repurchase or redeem, our stock; prepay, redeem or repurchase certain of our debt; make investments; sell assets; enter into agreements restricting our subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends; consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; enter into transactions with our affiliates; and incur liens. in addition, the indenture governing our senior notes and the terms of our credit facility limit the amount of our capital expenditures and require us to maintain certain financial ratios, including a minimum interest coverage ratio and a maximum leverage ratio, among others. these covenants may restrict our financial flexibility, limit our strategic initiatives, restrict our ability to grow or limit our ability to respond to competitive changes. these covenants limit how we may conduct our business, and we may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or capital needs. these covenants may, therefore, limit our ability to successfully execute our business strategy and operate our business. our spin-off from northrop grumman exposes us to potential liabilities, including u.s. federal income tax liabilities. our spin-off from northrop grumman was structured to minimize the likelihood that northrop grumman, northrop grumman's stockholders and we would be required to recognize any taxable income, gain or loss for u.s. federal income tax purposes as a result of the spin-off, except with respect to cash received by northrop grumman's stockholders in lieu of fractional shares. if all or a portion of the spin-off does not qualify as a tax-free transaction, northrop grumman would recognize a substantial gain for u.s. federal income tax purposes. in such case, under irs regulations, each member of northrop grumman's consolidated group at the time of the spin-off, including us and our subsidiaries, would be severally liable for the resulting u.s. federal income tax liability. in connection with the spin-off, northrop grumman and we agreed that each of us would be responsible for the debts, liabilities and other obligations related to the respective business or businesses that we own and operate following the spin-off. although we do not expect to be liable for any such obligations not expressly assumed by us, it is possible that a court would disregard the agreed allocation and require that we assume responsibility for obligations allocated to northrop grumman, such as certain tax and/or environmental liabilities, particularly if northrop grumman were to refuse or be unable to pay or perform its allocated obligations. risks related to our common stock our indebtedness could limit our future ability to pay dividends on our common stock. our dividend policy is established by our board of directors based upon our financial condition, results of operations and capital requirements, as well as applicable law, regulatory constraints, industry practice and other business 26 table of contents considerations that our board of directors considers relevant. the terms of the agreements governing our existing debt limit the amount of dividends we may pay, and debt that we may incur in the future may limit or prohibit payments of dividends. in addition, the amount of our existing and any additional future debt may limit our ability to pay dividends. if we cannot generate sufficient cash flow from operations to meet our debt payment obligations, then our ability to pay dividends, even if declared by our board of directors, may be impaired. there can be no assurance that we will continue to pay a dividend on our common stock. anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and delaware law, as well as regulatory requirements, could delay or prevent a change in control. certain provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws may delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a stockholder may consider favorable. for example, our restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws provide for a classified board of directors, require advance notice for stockholder proposals and director nominations, place limitations on convening stockholder meetings and authorize our board of directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock. these provisions may discourage acquisition proposals or delay or prevent a change in control, which could harm our stock price. delaware law also imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock and us. our nuclear shipbuilding operations are considered vitally important to the u.s. navy. consequently, the u.s. navy has required us to include in our contracts with the navy provisions regarding notice and approval rights in the event of change of control of our nuclear shipbuilding operations and regarding the navy's obligations to indemnify us for losses relating to our nuclear work for the navy. such provisions require us to provide the u.s. navy with notice of any potential change of control of our nuclear shipbuilding operations and obtain the navy's consent for transferring certain related licenses to facilitate the navy ' ability to ensure that a potential buyer would continue to conduct our operations in a satisfactory manner. we have included such provisions in solicitations for future u.s. navy nuclear work , and we expect them to be included in future contracts with the navy for nuclear work . provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and our restated bylaws, our obligations to northrop grumman relating to the spin-off and our existing contracts with the u.s. navy may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change of control of our company that may be beneficial to our stockholders. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 61 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk, primarily related to interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. interest rates - our financial instruments subject to interest rate risk include floating rate borrowings under our credit facility. as of december 31, 2013 , we had $474 million in floating rate debt outstanding under our credit facility's term loan. our $650 million revolver remained undrawn as of december 31, 2013 . based on the amounts outstanding under our credit facility as of december 31, 2013 , an increase of 1% in interest rates would increase the interest expense on our debt by approximately $5 million on an annual basis. foreign currency - we currently have, and in the future may enter into, foreign currency forward contracts to manage foreign currency exchange rate risk related to payments to suppliers denominated in foreign currencies. as of december 31, 2013 , our outstanding foreign currency forward contracts were not significant. 61 table of contentsrisk factors 11 we became an independent, publicly-owned company on march 31, 2011, when we were spun off from northrop grumman. we have owned and operated the legacy northrop grumman shipbuilding business since the spin-off. we believe our product capabilities, heavy industrial facilities, and a workforce of approximately 38,000 employees position us well to continue to support the long-term objectives of the u.s. navy and u.s. coast guard. ingalls through our ingalls operations, we design and construct non-nuclear ships for the u.s. navy and u.s. coast guard, including amphibious assault ships, surface combatants, and national security cutters ("nscs"). we are a supplier of amphibious assault ships to the u.s. navy and have built 28 of the 62 ddg-51 arleigh burke -class of aegis guided missile destroyers in active service. we are also the sole builder of the large multi-mission nscs for the u.s. coast guard. our ingalls shipbuilding site is located in pascagoula, mississippi. these facilities offer a collection of manufacturing capabilities that include a 660-ton gantry crane and a land based test facility. in october 2014, we ceased shipbuilding construction operations at avondale and consolidated that activity at our pascagoula, mississippi, facility, which we believe will enhance our competitive position by decreasing our fixed overhead expenses, improving facility utilization to provide a more cost-efficient construction process, centralizing our shipbuilding learning and increasing the benefits of serial production, and reducing program costs. in july 2014, we closed our gulfport composite center of excellence (the "gulfport facility") in gulfport, mississippi, due to limited demand from the u.s. navy for composite products provided by our gulfport facility. 1 table of contents amphibious assault ships we are a supplier to the u.s. navy of amphibious assault and expeditionary warfare ships, which include the u.s. navy large deck amphibious ships ("lha"), amphibious transport dock ships ("lpd"), and multi-purpose amphibious assault ships ("lhd"). the lha is a key component of the u.s. navy-marine corps requirement for 11 expeditionary strike groups/amphibious readiness groups, and design, construction and modernization of lhas are core to our ingalls operations. construction of lhd-1 wasp -class multipurpose amphibious assault ships concluded with our delivery of lhd-8 uss makin island in 2009. in 2007, we were awarded the construction contract for lha-6 america , the first in a new class of enhanced amphibious assault ships designed from the keel up to be an aviation optimized marine assault platform. we delivered lha-6 america in the second quarter of 2014 and are currently constructing lha-7 tripoli , scheduled for delivery in 2018. the lpd program is a long-running production program in which we have generated efficiencies through ship-over-ship learning. we are currently constructing two lpd-17 san antonio -class amphibious transport dock ships, lpd-26 john p. murtha scheduled for delivery in 2016 and lpd-27 portland scheduled for delivery in 2017, in our pascagoula shipyard. we delivered lpd-25 somerset in 2013 and lpd-23 anchorage and lpd-24 arlington in 2012. surface combatants we are a design agent for and one of only two companies that constructs the ddg-51 arleigh burke -class guided missile destroyers. we have delivered 28 ddg-51 arleigh burke -class destroyers to the u.s. navy, including ddg-110 uss william p. lawrence in february 2011. we are currently constructing ddg-113 john finn and ddg-114 ralph johnson , scheduled for delivery in 2016 and 2017, respectively. in 2013, we were awarded a multi-year contract totaling $3.3 billion for construction of five additional ddg-51 arleigh burke -class destroyers as a part of a larger u.s. navy order for nine ddg-51 arleigh burk e-class destroyers. we began fabrication on the first ship of that award, ddg-117 paul ignatius , in 2014, and it is scheduled for delivery in 2018. in 2008, the u.s. navy truncated the ddg-1000 zumwalt -class program when it restarted the ddg-51 arleigh burke -class destroyer production line. our participation in the ddg-1000 zumwalt -class destroyers program included detailed design and construction of the ships' integrated composite deckhouses and hangars, as well as portions of the ships' aft peripheral vertical launch systems. we completed our participation in this program with the delivery of the composite deckhouse of ddg-1001 michael monsoor in 2014 . the u.s. navy has decided to acquire a steel deckhouse structure for the third and final ship of the class. national security cutters the u.s. coast guard's recapitalization program is designed to replace aging and operationally expensive ships and aircraft used to conduct missions in excess of 50 miles from the shoreline. the flagship of this program is the legend -class nsc, a multi-mission platform we designed and built. the u.s. coast guard ordered the first three nsc vessels from integrated coast guard systems ("icgs"), a joint venture between lockheed martin and us, pursuant to an indefinite delivery/indefinite quantity ("idiq") contract for the deepwater modernization program. the first national security cutter, nsc-1 uscgc bertholf , was delivered to the u.s. coast guard in 2008, followed by nsc-2 uscgc waesche in 2009 and nsc-3 uscgc stratton in 2011. beginning in 2010 with the construction contract for nsc-4 uscgc hamilton , the nsc contracts have been awarded directly to ingalls. nsc-4 uscgc hamilton was delivered to the u.s. coast guard in 2014. nsc-5 james and nsc-6 munro are currently under construction and are scheduled for delivery in 2015 and 2016, respectively. ingalls was awarded a construction contract for nsc-7 kimball and a contract to purchase long-lead materials for nsc-8 midgett in 2014. we have begun construction on nsc-7 kimball, and it is scheduled for delivery in 2018. newport news the capabilities of our newport news operations extend from our core business of designing and constructing nuclear-powered ships, such as aircraft carriers and submarines, and the refueling and overhaul and the inactivation of such ships, to businesses that are focused on the construction of heavy manufacturing equipment for commercial nuclear power facilities and the operation, management and cleanup of environmental hazard sites through department of energy ("doe") programs. our newport news shipyard is one of the largest shipyards in the united states, located on approximately 550 acres near the mouth of the james river, which adjoins the chesapeake bay. the shipyard has two miles of waterfront property and heavy industrial facilities, which include 2 table of contents seven graving docks, a floating dry dock, two outfitting berths, five outfitting piers, module outfitting facilities and various other workshops. our newport news shipyard also has a 2,170-foot dry dock serviced by a 1,050-ton gantry crane capable of supporting two aircraft carriers at one time. design, construction and refueling and complex overhaul of aircraft carriers engineering, design and construction of u.s. navy nuclear aircraft carriers are core to our operations. aircraft carriers are the largest ships in the u.s. navy's fleet, with a displacement of over 90,000 tons. newport news has delivered 30 aircraft carriers to the u.s. navy since 1933, including all ten ships currently in active service. we delivered the u.s. navy's newest carrier and the last of the cvn-68 nimitz -class, cvn-77 uss george h.w. bush , in 2009. we have been engaged in design work on the next generation aircraft carrier, the cvn-78 gerald r. ford- class, for over ten years. in 2008, we were awarded a $5.1 billion contract for detail design and construction of the first ship of the class, cvn-78 gerald r. ford , which is scheduled for delivery in 2016. we also received awards in 2009 through 2014 totaling $3.3 billion under a construction preparation contract for the second cvn-78 gerald r. ford -class aircraft carrier, cvn-79 john f. kennedy . this contract includes design, planning, procurement of long-lead-time materials and limited fabrication, as well as continued research and development with key suppliers. we continue to be the exclusive prime contractor for nuclear aircraft carrier refueling and complex overhaul ("rcoh"). each rcoh takes over three years to complete, and the work accounts for approximately 35% of all maintenance and modernization during an aircraft carrier's 50 year service life. rcoh services include propulsion work (refueling of reactors; propulsion plant modernization; and propulsion plant repairs), restoration of service life (dry docking, tank and void maintenance; hull, shafting, propellers and rudders; launch and recovery system; piping repairs; and component refurbishment), and modernization (electrical systems; aviation support systems; warfare; interoperability; and environmental compliance). we provide ongoing maintenance services for the u.s. navy aircraft carrier fleet through both rcoh and on-site fleet repair work. we completed the rcoh for cvn-71 uss theodore roosevelt and redelivered it to the u.s. navy in 2013. we have also received awards totaling $2.6 billion under an execution contract for the rcoh of cvn-72 uss abraham lincoln . we believe our position as the exclusive designer and builder of nuclear-powered aircraft carriers, as well as the fact that rcoh work requires a highly trained workforce, is capital-intensive and has high barriers to entry due to its nuclear component, strongly positions us for the award of future rcoh contracts on the current and future u.s. navy aircraft carrier fleet. aircraft carrier inactivation the u.s. navy awarded us a $745 million contract in 2013 to inactivate cvn-65 uss enterprise , the world's first nuclear-powered aircraft carrier, which was built by us and commissioned in 1961, with a scheduled redelivery date in 2016. aircraft carriers have a lifespan of approximately 50 years, and we believe the ten carriers delivered by us that are currently in active service, as well as those we will deliver in the future, present a significant opportunity for us with respect to their inactivation. we believe that the u.s. navy will require inactivation of aircraft carriers in the naval fleet as they reach the end of their lifespans, and we intend to be positioned as the best choice to be awarded that work. design and construction of nuclear-powered submarines we are one of only two companies in the united states capable of designing and building nuclear-powered submarines for the u.s. navy. newport news has delivered 58 submarines to the u.s. navy since 1960, comprised of 44 fast attack and 14 ballistic missile submarines. of the 54 nuclear-powered fast attack submarines currently in active service, 25 were delivered by newport news. our nuclear submarine program, located at our newport news shipyard, includes construction, engineering, design, research and integrated planning. in february 1997, we executed a teaming agreement with electric boat, a division of general dynamics corporation ("general dynamics"), to build ssn-774 virginia -class fast attack nuclear submarines cooperatively. under the present arrangement, we build the stern, habitability and machinery spaces, torpedo room, sail and bow, while electric boat builds the engine room, control room and pressure hull structure. work on the reactor plant and the final assembly, test, outfit and delivery of the submarines alternate between electric boat and us. 3 table of contents the four submarines of the first block and the six submarines of the second block of ssn-774 virginia -class submarines have been delivered. in 2008, the team was awarded a construction contract for the third block of eight ssn-774 virginia -class submarines. the multi-year contract increased construction from one submarine per year to two submarines per year from 2011 through 2013. the first submarine under this contract was delivered in 2014, the second will be delivered in 2015, and the last submarine of the third block is scheduled for delivery in 2019. in 2014, the team was awarded a construction contract for the fourth block of ten ssn-774 virginia -class submarines, continuing the two ships per year production rate. the first ship of the block iv contract is scheduled for delivery in 2019, and the last is scheduled for delivery in 2023. fleet support: amsec and continental maritime of san diego ("cmsd") fleet support provides comprehensive life cycle services, including depot maintenance, modernization, repairs, logistics and technical support and planning yard services for naval and commercial vessels through our amsec and cmsd subsidiaries. we have ship repair facilities in newport news, virginia, and san diego, california, which are near the u.s. navy's largest homeports of norfolk, virginia, and san diego, respectively. amsec provides naval architecture and marine engineering, ship system assessments, maintenance engineering and logistics services to the u.s. navy and commercial maritime industry from 27 locations across the globe. on any given day, over 600 of our amsec employees are on board u.s. navy ships, assessing equipment conditions, modernizing systems and training sailors. through cmsd, a master ship repair contractor, we provide ship repair, regular overhaul and selected restricted availability services (pier side or in customers' dry docks) for the u.s. navy. we also perform emergent repair for the u.s. navy on all classes of ships. beginning in 2014, amsec and cmsd were transferred from the ingalls segment to the newport news segment. ssbn(x) ohio-class replacement program the u.s. navy's shipbuilding plan for fiscal year 2015 states the u.s. navy's intention to focus on the design and construction of replacement boats for the current aging ohio -class nuclear ballistic and cruise missile submarines. the u.s. navy has committed to designing a replacement class for the ssbn ohio -class nuclear ballistic missile submarines ("ssbn"), which were first introduced into service in 1981. the ssbn ohio- class includes 14 nuclear ballistic missile submarines and four nuclear cruise missile submarines ("ssgn"). the ohio replacement program is a $100 billion program that currently anticipates 12 new ballistic missile submarines over a 15-year period at an annual budget of approximately $5 billion to $7 billion. the u.s. navy has initiated the design process for the new class of submarine, and we have begun design work as a subcontractor to electric boat. we believe our experience and specialized workforce position us for a potential role in the construction effort, but no decisions have been made regarding that aspect of the program. congress has delayed the start of the first ohio replacement submarine by two years and construction is now expected to begin in 2021, with procurement of long-lead-time materials in 2017 and delivery in 2030. the first ohio -class ballistic missile submarine is expected to be retired in 2027, with an additional submarine being retired each year thereafter. by 2030 the ohio -class ballistic missile submarine fleet is expected to be down to ten. the current fiscal environment and uncertainty in defense budgets may cause additional delay to the start of construction or result in a reduction in the number of ships being procured, but we believe the ohio replacement program may represent a significant opportunity for us in the future. energy our doe and commercial nuclear programs leverage our core competencies in nuclear operations, program management and heavy manufacturing. we selectively partner with experienced industry leaders, and we participate in active joint ventures. through our subsidiary, stoller newport news nuclear, inc. ("sn3"), formerly the s.m. stoller corporation, we provide technical, environmental, ecological, waste management, remediation and consultation services to private sector companies and the doe. newport news industrial corporation ("nni") provides a range of support services to commercial nuclear power plants. since it was founded in 1965, nni has expanded its capabilities, continuing to provide support for nuclear energy facilities, as well as for fossil power plants and other industrial facilities. nni focuses on fabrication services, construction services, equipment services, technical services and product sales to its customers, which include both private industry and government entities such as the doe and the dod. 4 table of contents in january 2008, savannah river nuclear solutions, llc ("srns"), our joint venture with fluor federal services, inc. and honeywell international inc., was awarded a five-year $4 billion contract for site management and operations at the doe's savannah river site located 12 miles south of aiken, south carolina. in september 2012, the doe exercised its option to extend the original contract for another three years. we have a 34% ownership interest in srns. other our other segment was established in the second quarter of 2014 to account for certain of our non-shipbuilding commercial activities following our acquisition of universalpegasus international holdings, inc. ("upi"). upi has a 50 year history of providing project management, engineering and construction management for the oil and gas industry. upi has approximately 1,000 professionals serving clients in over 50 countries, with major office locations in houston, texas; calgary, canada; aberdeen, scotland; and san juan, trinidad and tobago. corporate huntington ingalls industries, inc. was incorporated in delaware on august 4, 2010. our principal executive offices are located at 4101 washington avenue, newport news, virginia 23607. our telephone number is (757) 380-2000, and our home page on the internet is www.huntingtoningalls.com. references to our website in this report are provided as a convenience and do not constitute, and should not be viewed as, incorporation by reference of the information contained on, or available through, the website. accordingly, such information should not be considered part of this report. summary segment financial data for a more complete understanding of our segment financial information, see segment operating results in item 7 and note 8: segment information in item 8. customers our revenues were primarily derived from the u.s. government in 2014 , 2013 and 2012 . in 2014 , 2013 and 2012 , approximately 88%, 94% and 96%, respectively, of our revenues were generated from the u.s. navy, and approximately 8%, 6% and 4%, respectively, were generated from the u.s. coast guard. in 2014, we generated approximately 2% of our revenues from commercial customers and 2% from other government agencies. intellectual property we develop and incorporate into our vessels new technologies, manufacturing processes and systems-integration practices. in addition to owning a large portfolio of proprietary intellectual property, we license intellectual property rights to and from others. the u.s. government holds licenses to our patents developed in the performance of u.s. government contracts and unlimited license rights in technical data developed under our u.s. government contracts when such data is developed entirely at government expense. the u.s. government may use or authorize others to use the technology covered by our patents licensed to the government. while our intellectual property rights are important to our operations, we do not believe that any existing patent, license or other intellectual property right is of such importance that its loss or termination would have a material impact on our business. seasonality no material portion of our business is seasonal. the timing of our revenue recognition is based on several factors, including the timing of contract awards, the incurrence of contract costs, contract cost estimation, and unit deliveries. see critical accounting policies, estimates, and judgments - revenue recognition in item 7. backlog as of december 31, 2014 and 2013 , our total backlog was approximately $21 billion and $18 billion , respectively. we expect approximately 28% of backlog at december 31, 2014 , to be converted into sales in 2015 . 5 table of contents total backlog includes both funded backlog (firm orders for which funding is contractually obligated by the customer) and unfunded backlog (firm orders for which funding is not currently contractually obligated by the customer). unfunded backlog excludes unexercised contract options and unfunded idiq orders. for contracts having no stated contract values, backlog includes only the amounts committed by the customer. backlog is converted into sales as work is performed or deliveries are made. for backlog by segment, see backlog in item 7. raw materials the most significant material we use is steel. other materials used in large quantities include paint, aluminum, pipe, electrical cable and fittings. all of these materials are currently available in adequate supply. in connection with our u.s. government contracts, we are required to procure certain materials and component parts from supply sources approved by the u.s. government. generally, for long-term contracts, we obtain price quotations for many of our materials requirements from multiple suppliers to ensure competitive pricing. we have not generally been dependent upon any one supply source; however, due to consolidation in the defense industry, we currently have only one supplier for certain component parts. we believe that these single source suppliers, as well as our overall supplier base, are adequate to meet our foreseeable needs. we have mitigated some supply risk by negotiating long-term agreements with certain raw material suppliers. in addition, we have mitigated price risk related to raw material purchases through certain contractual arrangements with customers. research and development to foster innovative product development and evolution, we conduct research and development activities as part of our normal business operations. our research and development activities primarily include independent research and development ("ir&amp;d") efforts related to government programs. we recover a significant portion of our ir&amp;d expenditures through overhead charges to u.s. government contracts, consistent with u.s. government regulations. we include ir&amp;d expenses in general and administrative expenses. company-sponsored ir&amp;d expenses totaled $18 million , $22 million and $21 million for the years ended december 31, 2014 , 2013 and 2012 , respectively. at our virginia advanced shipbuilding and carrier integration center ("vascic"), located in newport news, virginia, we conduct on-site warfare systems testing, training and laboratory research for the next generation of aircraft carriers, submarines and other ships. vascic serves as the focal point for the integration of ship systems and the application of new technologies. it has a classified facility and an integration area that facilitates research and development related to setup and testing of electronics as well as hull, mechanical and electrical systems prior to introducing new equipment on board a ship. it also has modeling and simulation capability allowing for visualization using 3-d displays. we believe vascic benefits the u.s. navy and represents a competitive advantage for us by developing future naval capabilities, reducing total ownership cost and facilitating technology transfer. governmental regulation and supervision our business is affected by a variety of laws and regulations relating to the award, administration and performance of u.s. government contracts. see risks related to our business in item 1a. we operate in a heavily regulated environment and are routinely audited and reviewed by the u.s. government and its agencies, such as the u.s. navy's supervisor of shipbuilding, the defense contract audit agency ("dcaa") and the defense contract management agency ("dcma"). these agencies review our contract performance, cost structures and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards, as well as the adequacy of, and our compliance with, our internal control systems and policies. systems subject to audit or review include our accounting systems, purchasing systems, billing systems, property management and control systems, cost estimating systems, earned value management systems, compensation systems and management information systems. any costs we incur that are determined to be unallowable or improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed by a government customer or must be refunded if already reimbursed. if an audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties, sanctions, forfeiture of profits, and suspension or debarment. the u.s. government has the ability to decrease or withhold contract payments if it determines significant deficiencies exist in one or more business systems subject to its review. the u.s. government has, in certain instances, withheld payments on contracts subject to these regulations upon its assessment that deficiencies exist 6 table of contents with one or more of our business systems. where appropriate, we are modifying our affected business systems to address the u.s. government's concerns. in addition, the u.s. government generally has the ability to terminate contracts, in whole or in part, with little to no prior notice, for convenience or for default based on performance. in the event of termination for the government's convenience, contractors are generally protected by provisions that provide for reimbursement of costs already incurred on the contracts and profit on those costs up to the amount authorized under the contract, but not for the anticipated profit that would have been earned had the contract been completed. such a termination could also result in the cancellation of future work on the related program. termination resulting from our default could expose us to various liabilities, including excess reprocurement costs, and could have a material effect on our ability to compete for future contracts. government contractors must comply with a significant volume of procurement regulations and other requirements. contracting with the u.s. government may result in our filing of requests for equitable adjustments ("reas"), which represent requests for the u.s. government to make appropriate adjustments to terms of a contract, including pricing, delivery schedule, technical requirements or other affected terms, due to changes in the original contract requirements and resulting delays and disruption in contract performance for which the u.s. government is responsible. we prepare, submit and negotiate reas in the ordinary course of business, and large reas are not uncommon at the conclusion of both new construction and rcoh activities. such reas are not considered claims under the contract disputes act of 1978, although they may be converted to such claims if good faith negotiations to resolve the reas are not satisfactory. in cases where there are multiple suppliers, contracts for the construction and conversion of u.s. navy ships and submarines are generally subject to competitive bidding. in evaluating proposed prices, the u.s. navy sometimes requires that each bidder submit information on pricing, estimated costs of completion and anticipated profit margins in order to assess cost realism. the u.s. navy uses this information and other data to determine an estimated cost for each bidder. under u.s. government regulations, certain costs, including certain financing costs and marketing expenses, are not allowable contract costs and, therefore, are not recoverable. the u.s. government also regulates the methods by which all costs, including overhead, are allocated to government contracts. our contracts with various agencies of the u.s. government and our subcontracts with other prime contractors are subject to additional regulations that include, but are not limited to, the truth in negotiations act, the procurement integrity act, the false claims act, cost accounting standards, the international traffic in arms regulations promulgated under the arms export control act, the close the contractor fraud loophole act and the foreign corrupt practices act. a noncompliance determination by a government agency may result in reductions in the value of contracts, contract modifications or terminations, penalties, fines, compensatory, treble or other damages, or suspension or debarment. competition in our primary business of designing, building, overhauling, and repairing military ships, we primarily compete with general dynamics and, to a lesser extent, smaller shipyards, one or more of which could team with a large defense contractor. intense competition related to programs, resources and funding, and long operating cycles are key characteristics of both our business and the shipbuilding defense industry in general. it is common industry practice to share work on major programs among a number of companies. a company competing to be a prime contractor may, upon ultimate award of the contract to another party, become a subcontractor for the prime contracting party. it is not uncommon to compete for a contract award with a peer company and, simultaneously, perform as a supplier to or a customer of such competitor on other contracts. the nature of major defense programs, conducted under binding contracts, allows companies that perform well to benefit from a level of program continuity not common in many industries. we believe we are well-positioned in the market. because we are the only company currently capable of building, refueling and defueling the u.s. navy's nuclear-powered aircraft carriers, we believe we are in a strong competitive position to be awarded each contract to perform such activities. even so, the government periodically revisits whether refueling of nuclear-powered aircraft carriers should be performed in private or public facilities. in this regard, the national defense authorization act for fiscal year 2012 ("2012 act") required dod to develop a core depot level maintenance capability to refuel nuclear aircraft carriers. the national defense authorization act for fiscal year 2013 ("2013 act") modified the 2012 act by restoring an exception for the nuclear refueling of an aircraft 7 table of contents carrier from the definition of core depot level maintenance. the 2013 act also amended and clarified the exception to cover the concurrent refueling and overhaul of an aircraft carrier, as well as the defueling of an aircraft carrier. similarly, the 2013 act restored an exclusion for nuclear aircraft carrier programs from the definition of core logistics capabilities that was found in previous law. we are currently the only builder of large deck amphibious assault and expeditionary warfare ships for the u.s. navy, including lhas and lpds, and are positioned to be awarded future contracts for these types of vessels. we are also the sole supplier of nscs for the u.s. coast guard, and are positioned to be awarded future contracts for these types of vessels. we are one of only two companies currently designing and building nuclear-powered submarines for the u.s. navy, and we are party to a long-term teaming agreement with the other company for the production of such vessels. we are one of only two companies that builds the u.s. navy's current fleet of ddg-51 arleigh burke -class destroyers and are positioned to be awarded future contracts for these types of ships as well. our success in the shipbuilding defense industry depends upon our ability to develop, market and produce our products and services at a cost consistent with the u.s. navy's budget, as well as our ability to provide the workforce, technologies, facilities, equipment and financial capacity needed to deliver those products and services with maximum efficiency. we compete with a variety of companies in the provision of engineering services in the energy and oil and gas markets. environmental, health and safety our manufacturing operations are subject to and affected by federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. we accrue the estimated costs to complete environmental remediation when we determine it is probable we will incur expenses in the future, in amounts we can reasonably estimate, to address environmental conditions at currently or formerly owned or leased operating facilities, or at sites where we are named a potentially responsible party ("prp") by the u.s. environmental protection agency ("epa") or similarly designated by another environmental agency. the inherent difficulties in estimating future environmental remediation costs, resulting from uncertainties regarding the extent of required remediation, determination of legally responsible parties and the status of laws and regulations and their interpretations, can cause our estimated remediation costs to change. we assess the potential impact on our financial statements of future environmental remediation costs by estimating, on a site-by-site basis, the range of reasonably possible remediation costs that we could incur, taking into account currently available information at each site, the current state of technology and our prior experience in remediating contaminated sites. we review our estimates periodically and adjust them to reflect changes in facts, technology and legal circumstances. we record accruals for environmental remediation costs on an undiscounted basis in the accounting period in which it becomes probable we have incurred a liability and the costs can be reasonably estimated. we record related insurance recoveries only when we determine that collection is probable, and we do not include any litigation costs related to environmental matters in our environmental remediation accrual. we either expense or capitalize environmental expenditures as appropriate. capitalized expenditures relate to long-lived improvements in current operating facilities. we accrue environmental remediation costs at sites involving multiple parties based upon our expected share of liability, taking into account the financial viability of other jointly liable parties. we may incur remediation costs exceeding our accrued amount if other prps do not pay their allocable share of remediation costs, which could have a material effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. as of december 31, 2014 , our probable future costs for environmental remediation were approximately $2 million , which is accrued in other current liabilities in the consolidated statement of financial position. although information gained as projects progress may materially affect our accrued liability, we do not anticipate that future remediation expenditures will have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. we may incur environmental costs in the future related to our wind down of shipbuilding at avondale. these costs are not reasonably estimable at this time, however, due to insufficient information about the nature, timing and extent of any potential environmental remediation we may be required to perform or the related costs that we may incur. accordingly, potential environmental costs associated with the wind down of avondale are not included in our $2 million accrual for environmental remediation costs or our $284 million estimate of avondale asset write-downs 8 table of contents and restructuring costs, or otherwise reflected in our consolidated financial statements. we expect that a significant portion of any future environmental remediation costs we might incur at avondale would be recoverable in accordance with government accounting practices under the federal acquisition regulation ("far"). we believe that we are in material compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations, and historical environmental compliance costs have not been material to our business. we could be affected by new environmental laws or regulations, including any enacted in response to climate change concerns and other actions known as "green initiatives." we have made the investments we believe are necessary to comply with environmental laws. we expect, however, to incur capital and operating costs in the future to comply with current and future environmental laws and regulations. at this time, we do not believe such costs will have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. with regard to occupational health and safety, the shipbuilding and ship repair industry involves work with hazardous materials and processes, and remains one of the most hazardous industry segments. according to the bureau of labor statistics, the shipbuilding and ship repair industry (naics 336611) ranks among the highest in several injury metrics. we have experienced three industrial related fatalities in the past seven years. we strive to keep our occupational safety &amp; health administration ("osha") compliance programs strong. in 1995, our newport news shipyard became the first shipyard to be awarded the star award from osha's voluntary protection program ("osha vpp"). to earn this award, we joined efforts with our unions and supported participation in the osha vpp, in which all parties assist each other to make our shipyard a safer place to work. our cmsd facility and sn3's grand junction site have also been certified as osha vpp star sites. the u.s. navy, nuclear regulatory commission and doe regulate and control various matters relating to nuclear materials we handle. subject to certain requirements and limitations, our contracts with the u.s. navy and doe generally provide for indemnity by the u.s. government for losses resulting from our nuclear operations. for our commercial nuclear operations, we rely primarily on insurance carried by nuclear facility operators for risk mitigation, and we maintain limited insurance coverage for losses in excess of the coverage of facility operators. employees we have approximately 38,000 employees. we are the largest industrial employer in virginia and the largest private employer in mississippi. we employ individuals specializing in 19 crafts and trades, with approximately 5,200 engineers and designers and approximately 2,300 employees with advanced degrees. our workforce contains many third-, fourth- and fifth-generation employees, and approximately 1,150 employees have 40 or more years of continuous service. employees in our shipbuilding divisions with more than 40 years of service achieve the honor of master shipbuilder . as of december 31, 2014, there were 886 master shipbuilders at newport news and 235 at ingalls. we employ more than 6,000 veterans across the enterprise. our newport news shipbuilding apprentice school trains approximately 800 apprentices each year in 19 crafts and trades and several advanced programs. our ingalls apprentice school currently has approximately 600 regular apprentices in its programs, and our amsec subsidiary has approximately 25 apprentices currently in training. apprentices are paid as full-time employees for the duration of their studies and usually continue to work with us upon graduation. from nuclear pipe welders to senior executives, approximately 5,000 apprentice alumni (3,000 at newport news and 2,000 at ingalls) continue to work with us. approximately 50% of our employees are covered by a total of 11 collective bargaining agreements and two doe site stabilization agreements. newport news has three collective bargaining agreements covering represented employees, which expire in july 2017, august 2018 and december 2018. newport news craft workers employed at the kesselring site near saratoga springs, new york are represented under an indefinite doe site agreement. ingalls has five collective bargaining agreements covering represented employees, all of which expire in march 2018. craft employees at our waggaman, louisiana location are covered by a collective bargaining agreement that will expire in june 2019. approximately 90 craft employees of sn3 are represented under two collective bargaining agreements, which expire in february 2015 and september 2017, or under a doe site agreement for those working at the hanford, washington site. we believe that our relationship with our employees is satisfactory. 9 table of contents available information our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q and current reports on form 8-k, as well as any amendments to those reports, are available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we file them with the securities and exchange commission ("sec"). you can learn more about us by reviewing our sec filings on the investor relations page on our website at www.huntingtoningalls.com. our sec filings are also available at the public reference room of the sec at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. you may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling 1-800-sec-0330. the sec also maintains a website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy statements and other information about sec registrants, including us. executive officers of the registrant see executive officers of the registrant in item 4a for information about our executive officers. forward-looking statements statements in this annual report on form 10-k and in our other filings with the sec, as well as other statements we may make from time to time, other than statements of historical fact, constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in these statements. factors that may cause such differences include: changes in government and customer priorities and requirements (including government budgetary constraints, shifts in defense spending, and changes in customer short-range and long-range plans); our ability to obtain new contracts, estimate our future contract costs and perform our contracts effectively; changes in government regulations and procurement processes and our ability to comply with such requirements; our ability to realize the expected benefits from consolidation of our ingalls facilities; natural disasters; adverse economic conditions in the united states and globally; risks related to our indebtedness and leverage; and other risk factors discussed herein and in our filings with the sec. there may be other risks and uncertainties that we are unable to predict at this time or that we currently do not expect to have a material adverse effect on our business, and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements. you should not place undue reliance on any forward looking statements that we may make. 10 table of contents item 1a. risk factors an investment in our common stock or debt securities involves risks and uncertainties. we seek to identify, manage, and mitigate risks to our business, but risk and uncertainty cannot be eliminated or necessarily predicted. you should consider the following factors carefully, in addition to the other information contained in this annual report on form 10-k, before deciding to purchase our securities. risks related to our business we depend heavily on a single customer, the u.s. government, for substantially all of our business, and changes affecting this customer's priorities and spending could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. our business consists primarily of the design, construction, repair, and maintenance of nuclear-powered ships, such as aircraft carriers and submarines, and non-nuclear ships, such as surface combatants and expeditionary warfare and amphibious assault ships, for the u.s. navy and coastal defense surface ships for the u.s. coast guard, as well as the refueling and overhaul and inactivation of nuclear-powered ships for the u.s. navy. most of our revenues in 2014 were derived from products and services ultimately sold to the u.s. government, and we expect this to continue in the foreseeable future. in addition, most of our backlog was u.s. government related as of december 31, 2014 . our u.s. government contracts are subject to various risks, including our customers' political and budgetary constraints and processes, changes in customers' short-range and long-range strategic plans, the timing of contract awards, significant changes in contract scheduling, intense contract and funding competition, difficulty in forecasting costs and schedules for bids on developmental and highly sophisticated technical work, delays in the timing of contract approval, and contractor suspension or debarment in the event of certain violations of legal or regulatory requirements. any of these factors could affect our ability to do business with the u.s. government, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. significant delays or reductions in appropriations for our programs, changes in customer priorities, and potential contract terminations could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. we are directly dependent upon congressional allocation of defense funds to the u.s. navy and the u.s. coast guard. the funding of u.s. government programs is subject to congressional budget authorization and appropriation processes. for certain programs, congress appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis even though a program may be performed over several fiscal years. consequently, programs are often partially funded initially and may receive additional funding only as congress makes further appropriations. if we incur costs in excess of existing funding on a contract, we may be at risk for reimbursement of those costs unless and until additional funds are appropriated. we cannot predict the extent to which total funding or funding for individual programs will be included, increased or reduced as part of the annual budget process, in continuing resolutions, or in individual supplemental appropriations. the impact of congressional actions to reduce the federal debt and resulting pressures on federal spending could adversely affect the total funding of individual ships or funding for individual programs and delay purchasing or payment decisions by our customers. in august 2011, the budget control act (the "bca") reduced the dod top-line budget by $487 billion from fiscal year 2012 through 2021, representing approximately 8% of planned defense spending. additionally, because congress did not identify savings to reduce the u.s. deficit by up to $1.2 trillion prior to march 1, 2013, budgetary sequestration was implemented under the bca. sequestration requires an additional reduction from fiscal year 2012 through 2021 of $500 billion for defense spending, representing approximately 9% of planned defense spending, and $500 billion for non-defense discretionary spending, including the u.s. coast guard. on december 26, 2013, the president signed into law the bipartisan budget act of 2013 (the "bipartisan budget act"), which provided $63 billion in sequestration relief over two years, split evenly between defense and non-defense programs, and set overall discretionary spending at $1.012 trillion for fiscal year 2014 and $1.013 trillion for fiscal year 2015. sequestration remains in effect under the bca for fiscal years 2016 through 2021. enactment of the bipartisan budget act enabled the house and senate appropriations committees to agree upon appropriations levels across the 12 appropriations subcommittees, including defense appropriations and homeland security, and to subsequently pass the consolidated and further continuing appropriations act for fiscal year 2015 (the "fy 11 table of contents 2015 act"). however, the homeland security department, including the u.s. coast guard, remains under a fiscal year 2014 continuing resolution until february 27, 2015, in order to support consideration by the 114th congress of fiscal year 2015 funding levels regarding immigration activities. the fy 2015 act specifically provided funding for procurement of cvn-79 john f. kennedy , construction of two ssn-774 virginia -class submarines, advance procurement for the cvn-73 uss george washington rcoh, continuation of ddg-51 arleigh burke -class destroyer production, and advance procurement for lha-7 tripoli . the fy 2015 act also provided $1 billion for the procurement of an additional lpd-17 san antonio -class ship and research, development, test, and evaluation ("rdt&amp;e") funding for the ohio replacement program. while the bipartisan budget act eliminated the implementation of sequestration reductions for fiscal years 2014 and 2015, significant uncertainty exists regarding the specific effects of sequestration in fiscal years 2016 through 2021, and related funding reductions that could result in the cancellation of or decreased funding for our existing programs and/or a lack of funding for future programs. the fiscal year 2016 president's budget request was delivered in early february 2015. the ability of congress to pass a fiscal year 2015 appropriations bill for the homeland security department, as well as the impact of the continuing federal fiscal debates for fiscal year 2016 and beyond remains uncertain, and we cannot predict the impact that the sequestration cuts, other defense spending cuts, or the prospective lack of a fiscal year 2015 homeland security appropriations bill may have on funding for our individual programs. long-term funding for certain programs in which we participate may be reduced, delayed, or canceled. in addition, defense spending cuts and delays could adversely affect the viability of our suppliers and subcontractors and employee base. our contracts or subcontracts under programs in which we participate may be terminated or adjusted by the u.s. government or the prime contractor as a result of lack of government funding or reductions or delays in government funding, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. the budget environment, including sequestration as currently mandated, remains a significant long-term risk. considerable uncertainty exists regarding how future budget and program decisions will develop and what challenges budget reductions will present for the defense industry. we believe continued budget pressures will have serious negative consequences for the security of our country, the defense industrial base, including us, and the customers, employees, suppliers, subcontractors, investors, and communities that rely on companies in the defense industrial base. although it is difficult to determine specific impacts, we expect that over the longer term, the budget environment may result in lower contract awards, revenues, profits and cash flows from our u.s. government contracts. congress continues to discuss various options to address sequestration in future budget planning, but we cannot predict the outcome of these efforts. it is likely budget and program decisions made in this environment will have long-term impacts on us and the entire defense industry. demand for our products and services can also be affected by potential changes in customer priorities due to changes in military strategy and planning. we cannot predict the impact of such changes on existing, follow-on, replacement, or future programs. a shift of government priorities to programs in which we do not participate and/or reductions in funding for or the termination of programs in which we do participate could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. the u.s. government generally has the ability to terminate contracts, in whole or in part, with little to no prior notice, for convenience or for default based on performance. in the event of termination for the u.s. government's convenience, contractors are normally protected by provisions covering reimbursement of costs already incurred on the contracts and profit on those costs up to the amount authorized under the contract, but not for the anticipated profit that would have been earned had the contract been completed. such a termination could also result in the cancellation of future work on the related program. termination resulting from our default can expose us to various liabilities, including excess re-procurement costs, and could negatively affect our ability to compete for future contracts. any contract termination could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. cost growth on fixed price and other contracts that cannot be justified as increases in contract value due from customers exposes us to reduced profitability and to the potential loss of future business. our operating income is adversely affected when we incur certain contract costs or certain increases in contract costs that cannot be billed to customers. cost growth can occur if expenses to complete a contract increase due to 12 table of contents technical challenges, manufacturing difficulties, delays, workforce-related issues or inaccurate initial estimates used for calculating contract costs. reasons may include unavailability or reduced productivity of labor, the nature and complexity of the work performed, the timeliness and availability of materials, major subcontractor performance or product quality issues, performance delays, availability and timing of funding from the customer, and natural disasters. the process of estimating contract costs requires significant judgment and expertise. a significant increase in contract costs from our original cost estimates on one or more programs could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. our ability to recover the costs we incur and realize profits on contracts with our u.s. government customers depends on the type of contract under which we are performing. our u.s. government business is currently performed under firm fixed price ("ffp"), fixed price incentive ("fpi"), cost plus incentive fee ("cpif"), cost plus fixed fee ("cpff") and cost plus award fee ("cpaf") contracts. under ffp contracts, we retain all cost savings on completed contracts but are responsible for the full amount of all expenditures in excess of the contract price. fpi contracts, on the other hand, are flexibly priced agreements under which overruns and underruns to an agreed target cost are shared between the u.s. government and us. the u.s. government is liable for its share of allowable costs up to a ceiling price, and we are responsible for all costs incurred in excess of such ceiling price, typically 125-135% of target cost. our profit on fpi contracts varies according to a formula set forth in the contract that generally compares the amount of costs incurred to the contract target cost. under cpif, cpff and cpaf contracts, we are generally required to perform the contract only to the extent the u.s. government makes funds available, and we recover all allowable costs incurred in the performance of the contract. under cpif contracts, our profit is determined by a contractually specified formula that compares allowable incurred costs to the contract target cost, subject in some instances to a maximum or minimum fee percentage. under cpff contracts, the dollar amount of profit received is the same without regard to the amount of costs incurred. under cpaf contracts, the dollar amount of profit received is determined by the award fee provisions in the contract. of ingalls' revenues in 2014 , approximately 90% were generated from fpi contracts, approximately 4% were generated from cpaf contracts, approximately 4% were generated from ffp contracts, and approximately 2% were generated from cpff contracts. of newport news' 2014 revenues, approximately 42% were generated from cpif contracts, which primarily included aircraft carrier construction and rcoh contracts, approximately 27% were generated from cpff contracts, approximately 25% were generated from fpi contracts, consisting primarily of submarine construction contracts, approximately 4% were generated from ffp contracts, and approximately 2% were generated from cpaf contracts. substantially all of our other segment's 2014 revenues were generated from ffp contracts. to the extent our mix of contract types change in the future, our ability to recover our costs and realize profits on our contracts can be negatively affected. our earnings and profitability depend upon our ability to perform under contracts. when agreeing to contract terms, we make assumptions and projections about future conditions and events, many of which extend over long periods. these projections assess the productivity and availability of labor, the complexity of the work to be performed, the cost and availability of materials, the impact of delayed performance, and the timing of product deliveries. we may experience significant variances from our assumptions and projections, delays in our contract performance, and variances in the timing of our product deliveries. if our actual experience differs significantly from one or more of our assumptions or projections, or, if we incur unanticipated contract costs, the profitability of the related contracts may be adversely affected. our earnings and profitability depend, in part, upon subcontractor performance and raw material and component availability and pricing. we rely on other companies to provide raw materials, major components, and sub-systems for our products, and we rely on subcontractors to produce hardware elements and sub-assemblies and perform certain services that we provide to our customers. we are subject to potential delivery disruptions and performance problems caused by our suppliers and subcontractors. our ability to perform our obligations as a prime contractor could be adversely affected if one or more of our suppliers or subcontractors are unable to provide the agreed-upon products or materials or perform the agreed-upon services in a timely and cost-effective manner. our costs to manufacture our products can increase over the terms of our contracts. we may be protected from increases in material costs through cost escalation provisions contained in some of our u.s. government contracts, to the extent that such increases are consistent with industry indices. even with these provisions, however, the difference in basis between our actual material costs and these indices may expose us to cost uncertainty. in 13 table of contents addition, significant delays in deliveries of key raw materials, which may occur as a result of availability or price, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. in connection with our u.s. government contracts, we are required to procure certain raw materials, components and parts from supply sources approved by the u.s. government. as a result of consolidation in the defense industry, only one supplier exists for certain components we acquire. the inability of a sole source supplier to provide a necessary component in a timely or cost-effective manner could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. our results of operations depend upon new contract awards. the prospects of u.s. shipyards, including ours, are materially affected by their success in securing significant u.s. navy contract awards. in february 2006, the u.s. navy presented to congress a goal of achieving and maintaining a fleet of 313 ships. each year, the u.s. navy presents to congress the navy's annual report to congress on long-range plan for construction of naval vessels (the "shipbuilding plan"), which includes the navy's shipbuilding plan for the next five years and a long-range projection of new ship construction for the following 25 years. the u.s. navy's 2015 shipbuilding plan states that the service's overall inventory goal is 306 battle force ships. the plan falls short of meeting the navy's inventory goals for some types of ships in some years, but the shortfalls are generally smaller than in prior shipbuilding plans. under the 2015 shipbuilding plan, the u.s. navy would buy a total of 264 ships from 2015 through 2044, comprised of 218 combat ships and 46 combat logistics and support ships. given the rate at which the navy plans to retire ships from the fleet, that construction plan would not achieve a fleet equal to the inventory goal of 306 ships until 2019 under new rules for counting ships that the navy implemented this year or until 2022 under the old counting rules. the u.s. navy's 2015 shipbuilding plan, at least for 2015 through 2019, is based on an assumption of funding at the president's requested level, which exceeds the amounts scheduled under current law. current law caps discretionary funding through 2021. in submitting its report, the u.s. navy described the 2015 shipbuilding plan as difficult to execute under current fiscal constraints, and it separately identified changes it would make to the plan if funding for defense equals the amounts scheduled under the current sequestration law. those changes include: buying eight fewer ships, including three fewer destroyers and one less attack submarine, from 2015 through 2019; chartering and leasing three fleet oilers rather than buying them; and putting six destroyers in a reduced status. the navy has also indicated that the refueling and continued operation of cvn-73 uss george washington remains problematic under sequestration. the u.s. navy's 2015 shipbuilding plan anticipates a fleet of 306 ships comprised of 12 ballistic missile submarines, 11 nuclear-powered aircraft carriers, 48 nuclear-powered attack submarines, 88 large multi-mission surface combatants, 52 small multi-role surface combatants, 33 amphibious landing ships, 29 combat logistics force ships, and 33 support vessels. the 2015 shipbuilding plan also notes that the four ssgn currently in service will be retired in the mid-2020s, and the u.s. navy is exploring the possibility of inserting a quad-pack of large diameter payload tubes in block v ssn-774 virginia -class submarines to offset the loss of the ssgn strike capability. the 2015 shipbuilding plan acknowledges that the dod will encounter several challenges in executing the plan, particularly with regard to funding new submarines to replace the ohio -class nuclear ballistic submarines. we believe our shipbuilding programs are a high priority for national defense, but, under federal budgetary pressures, one or more of our programs may be reduced, extended or terminated by our u.s. government customers. potential actions that could negatively affect us include the deferral of production of new amphibious ships, the reduction in the number of planned large surface combatants, an increase in the procurement interval for aircraft carriers beyond five years, and postponement or cancellation of the rcoh for cvn-73 uss george washington . in response to the need for cheaper alternatives and the proliferation of "smart weapons," future strategy reassessments by the dod may result in decreased demand for our shipbuilding programs, including our aircraft carrier programs. for the year ended december 31, 2014 , our aircraft carrier programs accounted for approximately 39% of our consolidated revenue. significant reductions in the number of ships procured by the u.s. navy or significant delays in funding our ship programs would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. 14 table of contents changes to department of defense business practices could have a material effect on dod's procurement process and adversely impact our current programs and potential new awards. the defense industry has experienced, and we expect it will continue to experience, significant changes to business practices resulting from, among other items, an increased focus by dod on affordability, efficiencies, recovery of costs and a reprioritization of available defense funds to key areas for future defense spending. the dod continues to adjust its procurement practices, requirements criteria and source selection methodology in an ongoing effort to reduce costs, gain efficiencies and enhance program management and control. in addition, the dcma and dcaa have implemented cost recovery/cost savings initiatives designed to prioritize efforts to recover costs. as a result of certain of these initiatives, we have experienced and may continue to experience an increased number of audits and/or a lengthened periods of time required to close open audits. more recently, the thresholds for certain allowable costs, including compensation costs, have been significantly reduced other thresholds are being challenged, debated, and, in certain cases, modified. significant changes to the thresholds for allowable costs could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. in september 2014 the dod initiated better buying power 3.0 ("bbp 3.0") to address its growing concern that the united states' technological superiority over potential adversaries is being threatened. bbp 3.0 has eight focus areas: achieve affordable programs; achieve dominant capabilities while controlling lifecycle costs; incentivize productivity in industry and government; incentivize innovation in industry and government; eliminate unproductive processes and bureaucracy; promote effective competition; improve tradecraft in acquisition of services; and improve the professionalism of the total acquisition workforce. while some of the larger objectives remained the same as its previous effort, better buying power 2.0, their focus has narrowed and the circle of stakeholders has expanded. we expect dod's focus on business practices to impact the contracting environment in which we operate as we and others in the industry adjust our practices to address the new initiatives and the reduced level of spending by the dod. we are taking steps internally to assess how we can respond to and support these changes, including how we can further reduce costs and increase productivity, modify how we respond to proposals and revise our areas of focus. depending on how these initiatives are implemented, they could have an impact on current programs, as well as new business opportunities with the dod. our future success depends, in part, on our ability to deliver our products and services at an affordable life cycle cost, requiring us to develop and maintain technologies, facilities, equipment and a qualified workforce to meet the needs of current and future customers. shipbuilding is a long cycle business, and our success depends on quality, cost and schedule performance on our contracts. we must develop and sustain the workforce, technologies, facilities, equipment and financial capacity needed to deliver our products and services at an affordable life cycle cost. if we fail to maintain our competitive position in these areas, we could lose future contracts to our competitors, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. our operating results are heavily dependent upon our ability to attract and retain a sufficient number of engineers and skilled workers at competitive costs and with the necessary skills and/or security clearances. at the same time, stable future revenues and costs are important for us to maintain a qualified workforce. development and maintenance of the necessary nuclear expertise and the challenges of hiring and training a qualified workforce can be a limitation on our business. if qualified personnel become scarce, we could experience higher labor, recruiting or training costs to attract and retain qualified employees, or, if we fail to attract and retain qualified personnel, we could incur difficulties in performing our contracts and attracting new business. competition within our markets or an increase in bid protests may reduce our revenues and market share. u.s. defense spending levels are uncertain and difficult to predict. while the u.s. navy's 2015 long range plan anticipates a fleet size of 306 ships, the plan does not include enough ships to fully support all elements of the navy's ships goal over the 30-year period. the u.s. navy currently projects that shortfalls would occur at various points during this 30-year period in ballistic missile submarines, cruisers-destroyers, attack submarines, and amphibious ships. declines in u.s. defense spending that reduce the demand for the types of ships we build and services we provide increase our risk exposure to market competition. we compete with another large defense contractor for construction contracts to build surface combatants, and we may in the future compete with the same 15 table of contents and other defense contractors to build other ships for which we are currently the sole source. if we are unable to continue to compete successfully against our current or future competitors, we may experience declines in revenues and market share, which could negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. although we are the only company currently capable of refueling nuclear-powered aircraft carriers, two existing u.s. government-owned shipyards may be able to refuel nuclear-powered aircraft carriers if substantial investments in facilities, personnel and training were made. u.s. government-owned shipyards engage in the refueling, overhaul and inactivation of ssn-688 los angeles -class submarines and are capable of repairing and overhauling non-nuclear ships. the 2012 national defense authorization act required dod to develop a core depot level maintenance capability to refuel nuclear aircraft carriers. the 2013 defense authorization act, however, modified the 2012 act by restoring an exception for the nuclear refueling of an aircraft carrier from the definition of core depot level maintenance. the 2013 act also amended and clarified the exception to cover the concurrent refueling and overhaul of an aircraft carrier, as well as the defueling of an aircraft carrier. similarly, the 2013 act restored an exclusion for nuclear aircraft carrier programs from the definition of core logistics capabilities that was contained in previous law. if a u.s. government-owned shipyard were to become capable and engaged in the business of refueling nuclear-powered aircraft carriers, our financial position, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely affected. we also compete in the engineering, planning, and design market with other companies that provide engineering support services. such competition increases the risk that we may not be the successful bidder on future u.s. navy engineering proposals, including aircraft carrier research and development, submarine design and future surface combatant and amphibious assault ship program contracts. our competitive environment is also affected by bid protests from unsuccessful bidders on new program awards. as the competitive environment intensifies, the number of bid protests may increase. bid protests can result in an award decision being overturned, requiring a re-bid of the contract. even when a bid protest does not result in a re-bid, resolution of the matter typically extends the time until contract performance can begin, which may reduce our earnings in the period in which the contract would otherwise have performed. overcapacity in the u.s. shipbuilding market may reduce our market share or our ability to secure contract awards at profitable prices. the reduced level of shipbuilding activity by the u.s. navy, evidenced by the reduction in fleet size from 566 ships in 1989 to 287 ships as of december 31, 2014 , has resulted in workforce reductions in the industry but little infrastructure consolidation. the general result has been fewer contracts awarded to the same fixed number of shipyards. six major private united states shipyards, three of which we own, plus numerous other smaller private shipyards compete for contracts to construct, overhaul, repair and convert naval vessels. we ceased all shipbuilding construction operations in one of our three major shipyards in 2014. competition for future shipbuilding programs is expected to be intense. additionally, our products, such as aircraft carriers, submarines, amphibious assault ships, surface combatants, and other ships, compete for funding with each other, as well as with other defense products and services. future rationalization of shipyard capacity in the united states might occur, and we could be affected by shipyard consolidation or closures as a result of the reduced level of u.s. navy spending on ship construction. such consolidation or closures could have a significant effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. as a u.s. government contractor, we are heavily regulated and could be adversely affected by changes in regulations or any negative findings from a u.s. government audit or investigation. u.s. government contractors must comply with significant regulatory requirements, including those relating to procurement and nuclear operations. government contracting requirements increase our contract performance and compliance costs and change on a consistent basis. in addition, our nuclear operations are subject to an enhanced regulatory environment, which results in increased performance and compliance efforts and costs. new laws, regulations, or procurement requirements, or changes to existing ones (including, for example, regulations related to allowability of compensation costs, counterfeit parts, specialty metals and conflict minerals), can increase our performance and compliance costs and reduce our profitability. we operate in a heavily regulated environment and are routinely audited and reviewed by the u.s. government and its various agencies, such as the u.s. navy's supervisor of shipbuilding, the dcaa, and the dcma. these 16 table of contents agencies review our contract performance, cost structures, and compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and standards, as well as the adequacy of, and our compliance with, our internal control systems and internal policies. systems subject to audit or review include our accounting systems, purchasing systems, billing systems, property management and control systems, cost estimating systems, earned value management systems, compensation systems, and management information systems. any costs we incur that are determined to be unallowable or improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed or must be refunded if previously reimbursed. if an audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties, sanctions, forfeiture of profits, and suspension or debarment. allegations of impropriety can also cause us significant reputational harm. whether or not illegal activities are alleged, the u.s. government has the ability to decrease or withhold contract payments if it determines significant deficiencies exist in business systems subject to its review. the u.s. government has, in certain instances, withheld payments on certain of our contracts subject to these regulations upon its assessment that deficiencies exist with one or more of our business systems. where appropriate, we are modifying our affected business systems to address the u.s. government's concerns. as with other government contractors, the u.s. government has, from time to time, recommended that certain of our contract prices be reduced, or that certain costs allocated to our contracts be disallowed. these recommendations sometimes involve substantial dollar amounts. in response to u.s. government audits, investigations and inquiries, we have also in the past made adjustments to our contract prices and the costs allocated to our government contracts. such audits, investigations and inquiries may result in future reductions of our contract prices. we must comply with a variety of federal laws, including the truth in negotiations act, the false claims act, the procurement integrity act, the international traffic in arms regulations promulgated under the arms export control act, the close the contractor fraud loophole act, the foreign corrupt practices act, and cost accounting standards, and we are subject, from time to time, to u.s. government investigations relating to our operations. if we are convicted or otherwise found to have violated the law, or are found not to have acted responsibly as defined by the law, we may be subject to reductions in the value of contracts, contract modifications or terminations, penalties, fines, compensatory, treble or other damages, or suspension or debarment, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. many of our contracts contain performance obligations that require innovative design capabilities, are technologically complex, require state-of-the-art manufacturing expertise or are dependent upon factors not wholly within our control, and failure to meet these obligations could adversely affect our profitability and future prospects. we design, develop, and manufacture products and provide services applied by our customers in a variety of environments. problems and delays in product development or with delivery of subcontractor components or services as a result of issues with respect to design, technology, licensing and intellectual property rights, labor, learning curve assumptions, or materials and components could prevent us from satisfying contractual requirements. first-in-class ships, also known as lead ships, usually have new technology that is supplied by the u.s. navy, other contractors, or us. problems in developing these new technologies or design changes in the construction process can lead to delays in the design schedule needed for construction. the risk associated with new technology or mid-construction design changes can both increase the cost of a ship and delay delivery. late delivery of information can also cause inefficiencies in the construction process, increase costs, and put the delivery schedule at risk, which could adversely affect our profitability and future prospects. our products cannot always be tested and proven and are otherwise subject to unforeseen problems, including premature failure of products that cannot be accessed for repair or replacement, substandard quality or workmanship, and unplanned degradation of product performance. these failures could result in loss of life or property and could negatively affect our results of operations by causing unanticipated expenses not covered by insurance or indemnification from the customer, diversion of management focus to respond to unforeseen problems, loss of follow-on work and, in the case of certain contracts, repayment to the government customer of contract cost and fee payments previously received. we have experienced quality issues in the past with respect to products and services that we sell to our u.s. government customers. these issues have required significant resources to analyze the source of the deficiencies 17 table of contents and implement corrective actions. we may discover quality issues in the future related to our products and services that require analysis and corrective action. such issues and our responses and corrective actions could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. we may not realize the anticipated benefits of consolidating all ingalls ship construction into our pascagoula shipyard, and we may not recover all of our costs related to the wind down of shipbuilding at our avondale shipyard. in october 2014, we ceased shipbuilding construction operations at our avondale, louisiana shipyard and consolidated all ingalls shipbuilding into our pascagoula shipyard. we have shifted construction of future lpd-class ships to a single production line at our pascagoula shipyard to reduce costs, increase efficiency, and address shipbuilding overcapacity. shifting avondale's shipbuilding to our pascagoula shipyard may not result in our realization of anticipated benefits from serial production at that facility. in connection with the increased utilization of our employees and facilities in our pascagoula shipyard, we may encounter difficulties adhering to back-to-back production schedules. any such difficulties could have an adverse effect on our ability to timely perform our existing contracts and our ability to obtain new contracts in the future. moreover, the concentration of our ingalls workforce in pascagoula may inhibit our ability to attract and retain a sufficient number of skilled and trained employees to perform the increased workload. any failure to attract and retain the necessary workforce, or to effectively manage and control third-party contractors, could adversely affect our ability to perform our contracts and have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. we have incurred substantial restructuring costs and asset write-downs, currently estimated at $284 million , related to the wind down of our operations at avondale. we believe that substantially all such expenses are recoverable under existing flexibly-priced contracts or future negotiated contracts in accordance with far provisions governing the treatment of restructuring and shutdown related costs. the dcaa prepared an initial audit report on our july 2010 cost recovery proposal of $310 million, which stated that the proposal was not adequately supported for the dcaa to reach a conclusion and questioned approximately $25 million , or 8% , of the costs included in the proposal. we submitted a revised proposal in march 2014 to address the dcaa concerns and reflect a revised estimated total cost of $284 million . in july 2014, we received a letter from the supervisor of shipbuilding requesting that we revise our restructuring proposal to address certain documentation issues identified by the dcaa in order for the government to make an adequate evaluation of the restructuring proposal. in august 2014, we received a letter from the supervisor of shipbuilding proposing a joint meeting regarding the treatment of specific costs included in the restructuring proposal and acknowledging that the allowability and allocability of costs will be determined by the government in an advanced agreement in accordance with far. although closure is still the baseline assumption for avondale, we are pursuing other opportunities to utilize this facility. if we are successful in pursuing such opportunities, and avondale remains open, we would submit a revised restructuring proposal to the u.s. navy consistent with this change. in such event, we expect that our total estimated restructuring costs would decrease. while the restructuring costs that are currently capitalized, consisting primarily of severance and retention payments as well as retired fixed assets, should remain recoverable under existing or future u.s. navy contracts, other costs would remain as part of the avondale cost structure associated with avondale's new line of business. whether we close avondale entirely or keep the facility open in a new line of business, we currently do not have an agreement with the u.s. navy regarding the government contract accounting and pricing treatment of the restructuring and shutdown costs associated with our wind down at avondale. we may also incur environmental costs in connection with the wind down. such costs, which we cannot reasonably estimate at this time, could be significant. the actual restructuring expenses we incur in connection with our wind down of avondale, including potential environmental costs, may be greater than our current estimate, and any inability to recover such costs could result in a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. we use estimates when accounting for contracts. changes in estimates could affect our profitability and our overall financial position. contract accounting requires judgment relative to assessing risks, estimating contract revenues and costs, and making assumptions for schedule and technical issues. the size and nature of many of our contracts make the estimation of total revenues and costs at completion complicated and subject to many variables. for new shipbuilding programs, we estimate, negotiate and contract for construction of ships that are not completely designed. assessing risks, estimating contract revenues and costs and making assumptions for schedule and 18 table of contents technical issues for these ships are subject to the variability of the final ship design and evolving scope of work. our assumptions on ship contracts include the length of time to complete the contract, because total costs include expected increases in wages and material prices. similarly, our assumptions include the future impact of our efficiency initiatives and cost reduction efforts. we consider incentives, awards and penalties related to contract performance in estimating revenues and profit rates, and we record them when sufficient information exists to assess anticipated contract performance. the judgment and estimation processes described above are significant to our contract accounting, and materially different amounts can be generated if different assumptions are used or if actual events differ from our assumptions. future changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates may have a material adverse effect on our future financial position, results of operations or cash flows. see critical accounting policies, estimates, and judgments in item 7. our business is subject to disruption caused by natural disasters, environmental disasters and other events that could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. we have significant operations located in regions of the united states that have been and may be exposed to damaging storms, such as hurricanes, floods and environmental disasters, such as oil spills. although preventative measures may help to mitigate damage, the damage and disruption resulting from natural and environmental disasters may be significant. natural disasters can disrupt our facilities, systems or projects, which can interrupt operational processes and performance on our contracts. should insurance or other risk transfer mechanisms be unavailable or insufficient to recover material costs associated with natural or environmental disasters, we could experience a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. see our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover all of our significant risks or our insurers may deny coverage of material losses we incur, which could adversely affect our profitability and financial position in this section . natural disasters can disrupt our workforce, electrical and other power distribution networks, computer and internet operations and accessibility, and the critical industrial infrastructure needed for normal business operations. these disruptions could adversely affect our contract performance and financial results. environmental disasters, particularly oil spills in waterways and bodies of water used for the transport and testing of our ships, can disrupt the timing of performance under our contracts with the u.s. navy and the u.s. coast guard. our suppliers and subcontractors are also subject to natural and environmental disasters that could affect their ability to deliver products or services or otherwise perform their contracts. performance failures by our subcontractors due to natural or environmental disasters may adversely affect our ability to perform our contracts, which could reduce our profitability in the event damages or other costs are not recoverable from the subcontractor, the customer or insurers. such events could also result in a termination of the prime contract and have an adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts. our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover all of our significant risks or our insurers may deny coverage of material losses we incur, which could adversely affect our profitability and financial position. we seek to identify and obtain, in established markets, insurance agreements to cover our significant risks and potential liabilities, including, among others, natural disasters, product liability and business interruption resulting from an insured property loss. in some circumstances, we may be indemnified for losses by the u.s. government, subject to the availability of appropriated funds. not every risk or liability can be protected by insurance, and, for insurable risks, the limits of coverage reasonably obtainable in the market may not be sufficient to cover the full amount of actual losses or liabilities incurred, including, for example, in the case of a catastrophic hurricane. in addition, the nature of our business makes it difficult to quantify the disruptive impact of such events. such limitations on the availability of insurance coverage may result in us bearing substantial costs for uninsured losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. even in cases where we have insurance coverage, disputes with insurance carriers over coverage may affect the timing of cash flows, and, if litigation with the insurance carrier becomes necessary, an outcome unfavorable to us may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 19 table of contents our business could suffer if we are unsuccessful in negotiating new collective bargaining agreements. approximately 50% of our employees are covered by a total of 11 collective bargaining agreements, and two doe site stabilization agreements. newport news has three collective bargaining agreements covering represented employees, which expire in july 2017, august 2018, and december 2018. newport news craft workers employed at the kesselring site near saratoga springs, new york are represented under an indefinite doe site agreement. ingalls has five collective bargaining agreements covering represented employees, which all expire in march 2018. craft employees at our waggaman, louisiana location are covered by a collective bargaining agreement that will expire in june 2019. approximately 90 craft employees of sn3 are represented under two collective bargaining agreements expiring in february 2015 and september 2017, or under a doe site agreement for those working at the hanford, washington site. collective bargaining agreements generally expire after three to five years, and we must negotiate successor agreements as each of our collective bargaining agreements expires. while we believe we maintain good relationships with our represented workers, it is possible that we may experience difficulties with renegotiating expiring collective bargaining agreements. we have, in the past, experienced work stoppages, strikes and other labor disruptions associated with the collective bargaining of new labor agreements. if we experience such events in the future, we could incur additional expenses or work delays that could adversely affect programs served by employees who are covered by collective bargaining agreements. significant changes in key estimates and assumptions, such as discount rates and assumed long-term returns on assets, actual investment returns on our pension plan assets, and legislative and regulatory actions could affect our earnings, equity, and contributions to our pension and retiree health care plans in future periods. our pension and retiree health care costs are dependent on significant judgment in the use of various estimates and assumptions, particularly with respect to the discount rate and expected long-term rates of return on plan assets. changes to these estimates and assumptions could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. differences between actual investment returns and our assumed long-term returns on assets will result in changes in future pension expense and the funded status of our plans, and could increase future funding of the plans. timing differences exist between the accrual of pension costs under accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america ("gaap"), pension funding requirements and the recovery of pension costs that are allowable under our government contracts. such timing differences could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. on december 27, 2011, the u.s. cost accounting standards ("cas") board issued its final cas harmonization rule. the new rule impacts pension costs on contracts beginning in 2013 and is effective for forward pricing purposes for contracts negotiated on or after february 27, 2012. although we believe that contractors are entitled to an equitable adjustment on cas-covered contracts awarded prior to the february 27, 2012 effective date, the application of this rule could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows if we are unable to successfully recover such equitable adjustment. for a complete discussion regarding how our consolidated financial statements can be affected by pension plan accounting policies and regulatory changes, see critical accounting policies, estimates, and judgments in item 7. unforeseen environmental costs could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. our operations are subject to and affected by a variety of existing federal, state and local environmental protection laws and regulations. in addition, we could be affected by future laws or regulations, including those imposed in response to climate change concerns or other actions commonly referred to as "green initiatives." we expect to incur future capital and operating costs to comply with current and future environmental laws and regulations, and such costs could be substantial, depending on the future proliferation of environmental rules and regulations and the extent to which we discover currently unknown environmental conditions. shipbuilding operations require the use of hazardous materials. our shipyards also generate significant quantities of wastewater, which we treat before discharging pursuant to various permits. to handle these materials, our shipyards have an extensive network of aboveground and underground storage tanks, some of which have leaked 20 table of contents and required remediation in the past. in addition, our handling of hazardous materials has sometimes resulted in spills in our shipyards and occasionally in adjacent rivers and waterways in which we operate. our shipyards maintain extensive waste handling programs that we periodically modify, consistent with changes in applicable laws and regulations. see environmental, health and safety in item 1. various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations impose restrictions on the discharge of pollutants into the environment and establish standards for the transportation, storage and disposal of toxic and hazardous wastes. substantial fines, penalties, and criminal sanctions may be imposed for noncompliance, and certain environmental laws impose joint and several "strict liability" for remediation of spills and releases of oil and hazardous substances. such laws and regulations render a party liable for environmental cleanup and remediation costs and damage without regard to negligence or fault on the part of such party, and may expose us to liability for the conduct of or conditions caused by third parties. in addition to fines, penalties, and criminal sanctions, environmental laws and regulations may require the installation of costly pollution control equipment or operational changes to limit pollution emissions or discharges and/or to decrease the likelihood of accidental hazardous material releases. we incur, and expect to incur in the future, costs to comply with federal and state environmental laws and regulations related to the cleanup of pollutants released into the environment. in addition, if we are found to be in violation of the clean air act or the clean water act, the facility or facilities involved in the violation could be placed by the epa on the "excluded parties list" maintained by the general services administration, which would continue until the epa concluded that the cause of the violation was cured. facilities on the "excluded parties list" are prohibited from working on any u.s. government contract. the adoption of new environmental laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, imposition of new cleanup requirements, discovery of previously unknown or more extensive contamination, litigation involving environmental impacts, our inability to recover related costs under our government contracts or the financial insolvency of other responsible parties could cause us to incur costs that could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. we ceased shipbuilding construction at our louisiana facilities in 2014. our wind down of operations at these facilities may result in environmental costs, the amount of which we cannot currently estimate. such costs could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. market volatility and adverse capital or credit market conditions may affect our ability to access cost-effective sources of funding and may expose us to risks associated with the financial viability of suppliers and subcontractors and the ability of counterparties to perform on financial agreements. the financial markets can experience high levels of volatility and disruption, reducing the availability of credit for certain issuers. we sometimes access these markets to support certain business activities, including funding acquisitions and capital expansion projects, obtaining credit support for our workers' compensation self-insurance program, refinancing existing indebtedness, and arranging for letters of credit. depending on the condition of the capital or credit markets existing at the time, we may be unable in the future to obtain capital market financing or bank financing on favorable terms, or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. tightening credit markets could also adversely affect our suppliers' and subcontractors' ability to obtain financing. delays in suppliers' or subcontractors' ability to obtain financing, or the unavailability of financing, could negatively affect their ability to perform their contracts with us and cause our inability to perform our contracts. the inability of our suppliers and subcontractors to obtain financing could also result in the need for us to transition to alternate suppliers and subcontractors, which could result in significant incremental costs and delays. we have existing agreements with counterparties in the financial markets, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, and other institutional parties, and may in the future enter into agreements with such parties. these transactions expose us to potential credit risk in the event of default of a counterparty. in addition, our credit risk may be increased when collateral held by us to secure performance of a counterparty cannot be liquidated upon a sale or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount due us. 21 table of contents our reputation and our ability to do business may be impacted by the improper conduct of employees, agents or business partners. our compliance program includes detailed compliance plans and extensive compliance controls, policies, procedures, and training designed to prevent and detect misconduct by employees, agents, or business partners that would violate the laws of the jurisdictions in which we operate, including laws governing payments to government officials, the protection of export controlled or classified information, cost accounting and billing, competition, and data privacy. we may not, however, prevent all such misconduct committed by our employees, agents, or business partners, and the risk of improper conduct may be expected to increase as we expand into commercial markets and foreign jurisdictions. any improper actions could subject us to administrative, civil, or criminal investigations and monetary and non-monetary penalties, including suspension or debarment, which could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. our business could be negatively impacted by security threats, including cyber security threats, and related disruptions. as a defense contractor, we rely on our information technology infrastructure to process, transmit and store electronic information, including classified and other sensitive information of the u.s. government. while we maintain stringent information security policies and protocols, we face cyber security and other security threats to our information technology infrastructure, including threats to our and the u.s. government's proprietary and classified information. we face unauthorized and unlawful attempts to gain access to our information technology infrastructure, including coordinated attacks from groups of hackers, and we could also face attempts to gain physical access to classified and other sensitive information located at our facilities. our information technology infrastructure is critical to the efficient operation of our business and essential to our ability to perform day-to-day operations. breaches of our information technology infrastructure or physical facilities or other disruptions could expose us to reputational damage, potential liability or the loss of current or future contracts, including work on sensitive or classified systems for the u.s. government, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. our nuclear operations subject us to various environmental, regulatory, financial, and other risks. the design, construction, refueling and overhaul, repair and inactivation of nuclear-powered aircraft carriers and nuclear-powered submarines, our nuclear facilities used to support such activities, our nuclear operations at doe sites, and our activities in the commercial nuclear market subject us to various risks, including: potential liabilities relating to harmful effects on the environment and human health resulting from nuclear operations and the storage, handling, and disposal of radioactive materials, including nuclear assemblies and their components; unplanned expenditures relating to maintenance, operation, security, and repair, including repairs required by the u.s. navy, the nuclear regulatory commission or the doe; reputational harm; potential liabilities arising out of a nuclear incident whether or not it is within our control; and regulatory noncompliance and loss of authorizations or indemnifications necessary for our operations. failure to properly handle nuclear materials could pose a health risk to humans or wildlife and could cause personal injury and property damage, including environmental contamination. if a nuclear accident were to occur, its severity could be significantly affected by the volume of the materials and the speed of corrective action taken by us and emergency response personnel, as well as other factors beyond our control, such as weather and wind conditions. actions we might take in response to an accident could result in significant costs. our nuclear operations are subject to various safety related requirements imposed by the u.s. navy, doe and nuclear regulatory commission. in the event of noncompliance, these agencies may increase regulatory oversight, impose fines or shut down our operations, depending on their assessment of the severity of the situation. in addition, new or revised security and safety requirements imposed by the u.s. navy, doe and nuclear regulatory commission could necessitate substantial capital and other expenditures. 22 table of contents subject to certain requirements and limitations, our contracts with the u.s. navy and doe generally provide for indemnity by the u.s. government for costs arising out of or resulting from our nuclear operations. we may not, however, be indemnified for all liabilities that we may incur in connection with our nuclear operations. to mitigate risks related to our commercial nuclear operations, we rely primarily on insurance carried by nuclear facility operators and our own limited insurance for losses in excess of the coverage of facility operators. such insurance, however, may not be sufficient to cover our costs in the event of an accident or business interruption relating to our commercial nuclear operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. changes in future business conditions could cause business investments, recorded goodwill and/or purchased intangible assets to become impaired, resulting in substantial losses and write-downs that would reduce our operating income. as part of our business strategy, we acquire non-controlling and controlling interests in businesses. we make acquisitions and investments following careful analysis and due diligence processes designed to achieve a desired return or strategic objective. business acquisitions generally involve estimates, assumptions and judgments in determining acquisition prices, which prices must be allocated among acquired assets, including goodwill, based upon fair market values. notwithstanding our analyses, due diligence processes and business integration efforts, actual operating results of acquired businesses may vary significantly from initial estimates. in such events, we may be required to write down our carrying value of the related goodwill and/or purchased intangible assets. in addition, declines in the trading price of our common stock can result in goodwill and/or purchased intangible asset impairment charges. as of december 31, 2014 , goodwill and purchased intangible assets generated from prior business acquisitions accounted for approximately 16% and 9% , respectively, of our recorded total assets. we evaluate goodwill values for impairment annually on november 30, or when evidence of potential impairment exists. we evaluate purchased intangibles when evidence of potential impairment exists. the impairment test is based on several factors requiring judgment. as a general matter, a significant decrease in expected cash flows or changes in market conditions may indicate potential impairment of recorded goodwill or purchased intangibles. after conducting the 2014 goodwill impairment test, we determined that goodwill at our other segment was impaired by $47 million . the other segment, established in the second quarter of 2014 following the acquisition of upi, is sensitive to developments in the oil and gas industry. the goodwill impairment charge was primarily driven by the recent drop in oil prices and the resulting decrease in industry market multiples. we determined that the estimated fair value of our remaining reporting units significantly exceeded their corresponding carrying values as of november 30, 2014 . adverse equity market conditions that result in a decline in market multiples and the trading price of our common stock or other events such as reductions in future contract awards or significant adverse changes in our operating margins or operating results of acquired businesses that vary significantly from projected results on which purchase prices are based, could result in an impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets. any such impairments that result in us recording additional goodwill impairment charges could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. unanticipated changes in our tax provisions or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability and cash flow. we are subject to income taxes in various jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. in addition, timing differences in the recognition of contract income for financial statement purposes and for income tax purposes can cause uncertainty with respect to the timing of income tax payments, which can have a significant impact on cash flow in a particular period. changes in applicable income tax laws and regulations, or their interpretation, could result in higher or lower income tax rates or changes in the taxability of certain transactions or the deductibility of certain expenses, thereby affecting our income tax expense and profitability. in addition, the final results of any tax audits or related litigation could be materially different from our related historical income tax provisions and accruals. changes in our tax rate as a result of changes in our overall profitability, changes in tax legislation, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in differences between financial statement income and taxable income, the examination of 23 table of contents previously filed tax returns by taxing authorities and continuing assessments of our tax exposures can also impact our tax liabilities and affect our income tax expense, profitability, and cash flow. we conduct a portion of our operations through joint ventures and strategic alliances. we may have limited control over such arrangements and have returns that are not proportional to the risks and resources we contribute. we conduct some of our operations through joint ventures with business partners. in any joint venture arrangement, differences in views among the joint venture participants may result in delayed decisions or in failures to reach agreement on major issues. we and our joint venture partners may, in certain instances, fail to reach agreement on significant decisions on a timely basis, or at all. we also cannot control the actions of our joint venture partners, including any non-performance, default, or bankruptcy of our joint venture partners, and we typically share liability or have joint and/or several liability with our joint venture partners for joint venture matters. any of these factors could potentially have a material adverse effect on our joint venture operations and the profitability of our joint ventures. in joint ventures in which we hold a minority interest, we have limited control over many decisions relating to joint venture projects and internal controls relating to such projects. these joint ventures may not be subject to the same requirements regarding internal controls and internal control reporting that apply to us. as a result, internal control issues may arise that could have a material adverse effect on the joint venture. in addition, in order to establish or preserve relationships with our joint venture partners, we may agree to assume risks and contribute resources that are proportionately greater than the returns we expect to receive in the related joint venture. such agreements may reduce our income and returns on these investments compared to what we would have received if our assumed risks and contributed resources were proportionate to our returns. strategic acquisitions and investments we pursue involve risks and uncertainties. in pursuing our business strategies, we review, evaluate and consider potential acquisitions and investments. in evaluating such transactions, we have to make difficult judgments regarding the value of business opportunities, technologies and other assets, and the risks and costs of potential liabilities. in addition, acquisitions and investments involve other risks and uncertainties, including the difficulty of integrating acquired businesses, challenges achieving strategic objectives and other benefits anticipated from acquisitions or investments, the diversion of management attention and resources from our existing operations and other initiatives, the potential impairment of acquired assets, and the potential loss of key employees of acquired businesses. our financial results, business, and future prospects could be adversely affected by unanticipated performance issues, transaction-related charges, liabilities, amortization of expenses related to intangibles, and charges for impairment of purchased intangible assets. we are subject to various claims and litigation that could ultimately be resolved against us, requiring material future cash payments and/or future material charges against our operating income, materially impairing our financial position. the size, type and complexity of our business make it highly susceptible to claims and litigation. we are currently, and may in the future become, subject to various administrative, civil, or criminal litigation, environmental claims, income tax matters, compliance matters, claims, and investigations, which could divert financial and management resources and result in fines, penalties, compensatory, treble or other damages, or nonmonetary relief. government regulations also provide that certain allegations against a contractor may lead to suspension or debarment from government contracts or suspension of our export privileges. suspension or debarment could have a material adverse effect on us because of our reliance on government contracts and authorizations. litigation, claims, or investigations, if ultimately resolved against us, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. any litigation, claims, or investigation, even if fully indemnified or insured, could negatively impact our reputation among our customers and the public, and make it more difficult for us to compete effectively or obtain adequate insurance in the future. we may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, which could affect our ability to compete. we own certain patents, trademarks, copyrights, and other forms of intellectual property, and we license certain intellectual property rights to and from third parties. the u.s. government generally holds licenses to certain 24 table of contents intellectual property we develop in performance of government contracts, and it may use or authorize others to use such intellectual property. more recently, we believe the u.s. government has asserted or sought to obtain more extensive rights in intellectual property. the u.s. government's efforts could result in a decrease in our ability to control the use of certain of our intellectual property rights in a government contracting environment. our intellectual property is also subject to challenge, invalidation, misappropriation, or circumvention by third parties. we also rely upon proprietary technology, information, processes, and know-how that are not protected by patents. we seek to protect this information through trade secret or confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, subcontractors, and other parties, as well as through other measures. these agreements and other measures may not, however, provide meaningful protection for our unpatented proprietary information. in the event of infringement of our intellectual property rights, breach of a confidentiality agreement, or unauthorized disclosure of proprietary information, we may not have adequate legal remedies to maintain our rights in our intellectual property. litigation to determine the scope of our rights, even if successful, could be costly and a diversion of management's attention from other aspects of our business. in addition, trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. if we are unable adequately to protect our intellectual property rights, our business could be adversely affected. we have the right to use certain intellectual property licensed to us by third parties. in instances where third parties have licensed to us the right to use their intellectual property, we may be unable in the future to secure the necessary licenses to use such intellectual property on commercially reasonable terms. our debt exposes us to certain risks. as of december 31, 2014 , we had $1,700 million of debt and $650 million of additional borrowing and letter of credit capacity under our credit facility ("credit facility"). our current level of debt could have important consequences, including: increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic or industry conditions; requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, strategic initiatives and general corporate purposes; increasing our vulnerability to, and limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or the industry in which we operate; exposing us to the risk of higher interest rates, to the extent borrowings under our credit facility are subject to variable rates of interest; placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and limiting our ability to borrow additional funds. because we use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service our debt, we could fail to generate sufficient cash to fund our liquidity needs or fail to satisfy the restrictive covenants and borrowing limitations to which we are subject under our debt. moreover, despite our current level of debt, we may be able to incur significant additional debt in the future. to the extent new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we face could be increased. restrictive covenants in the indentures governing our senior notes and our credit facility may restrict our ability to pursue our business strategies. the indenture governing our 7.125% senior notes and the terms of our credit facility limit our ability, among other things, to: incur additional debt; pay dividends or make other distributions on, or repurchase or redeem, our stock; prepay, redeem or repurchase certain of our debt; make investments; 25 table of contents sell assets; enter into agreements restricting our subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends; consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; enter into transactions with our affiliates; and incur liens. the indenture governing our 5.000% senior notes limits our ability, among other things, to: consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and incur liens. in addition, the indenture governing our 7.125% senior notes requires us to maintain a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio, and the terms of our credit facility limit the amount of our capital expenditures and require us to maintain certain financial ratios, including a minimum interest coverage ratio and a maximum leverage ratio, among others. these covenants may restrict our financial flexibility, limit our strategic initiatives, restrict our ability to grow or limit our ability to respond to competitive changes. these covenants limit how we may conduct our business, and we may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or capital needs. these covenants may, therefore, limit our ability to successfully execute our business strategy and operate our business. our spin-off from northrop grumman exposes us to potential liabilities, including u.s. federal income tax liabilities. our spin-off from northrop grumman was structured to minimize the likelihood that northrop grumman, northrop grumman's stockholders and we would be required to recognize any taxable income, gain or loss for u.s. federal income tax purposes as a result of the spin-off, except with respect to cash received by northrop grumman's stockholders in lieu of fractional shares. if all or a portion of the spin-off does not qualify as a tax-free transaction, northrop grumman would recognize a substantial gain for u.s. federal income tax purposes. in such case, under irs regulations, each member of northrop grumman's consolidated group at the time of the spin-off, including us and our subsidiaries, would be severally liable for the resulting u.s. federal income tax liability. in connection with the spin-off, northrop grumman and we agreed that each of us would be responsible for the debts, liabilities and other obligations related to the respective business or businesses that we own and operate following the spin-off. although we do not expect to be liable for any such obligations not expressly assumed by us, it is possible that a court would disregard the agreed allocation and require that we assume responsibility for obligations allocated to northrop grumman, such as certain tax and/or environmental liabilities, particularly if northrop grumman were to refuse or be unable to pay or perform its allocated obligations. anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and delaware law, as well as regulatory requirements, could delay or prevent a change in control. certain provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws may delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a stockholder may consider favorable. for example, our restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws provide for a classified board of directors, require advance notice for stockholder proposals and director nominations, place limitations on convening stockholder meetings and authorize our board of directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock. these provisions may discourage acquisition proposals or delay or prevent a change in control, which could harm our stock price. delaware law also imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock and us. our nuclear shipbuilding operations are considered vitally important to the u.s. navy. consequently, the u.s. navy has required us to include in our contracts with the navy provisions regarding notice and approval rights in the event of change of control of our nuclear shipbuilding operations and regarding the navy's obligations to indemnify us for losses relating to our nuclear work for the navy. such provisions require us to provide the u.s. navy with notice of any potential change of control of our nuclear shipbuilding operations and obtain the navy's consent for transferring certain related licenses, to facilitate the navy's ability to ensure that a potential buyer would continue to conduct our operations in a satisfactory manner. we have included such provisions in solicitations for future u.s. navy nuclear work, and we expect them to be included in future contracts with the navy for nuclear work. 26 table of contents provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and our restated bylaws and our existing contracts with the u.s. navy may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change of control of our company that may be beneficial to our stockholders. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 62 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk, primarily related to interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. interest rates - our financial instruments subject to interest rate risk include floating rate borrowings under our credit facility. as of december 31, 2014 , we had $395 million in floating rate debt outstanding under our credit facility's term loan. our $650 million revolver remained undrawn as of december 31, 2014 . based on the amounts outstanding under our credit facility as of december 31, 2014 , an increase of 1% in interest rates would increase the interest expense on our debt by approximately $4 million on an annual basis. foreign currency - we currently have, and in the future may enter into, foreign currency forward contracts to manage foreign currency exchange rate risk related to payments to suppliers denominated in foreign currencies. as of december 31, 2014 , the fair values of our outstanding foreign currency forward contracts were not significant. 62 table of contentsrisk factors 11 we operate in a heavily regulated environment and are routinely audited and reviewed by the u.s. government and its agencies, including the u.s. navy's supervisor of shipbuilding, the defense contract audit agency ("dcaa"), and the defense contract management agency ("dcma"). these agencies review our contract performance, cost structures, and compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and standards, as well as the adequacy of, and our compliance with, our internal control systems and policies. systems subject to audit or review include our accounting systems, purchasing systems, billing systems, property management and control systems, cost estimating systems, earned value management systems, compensation systems, and management information systems. if an audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to administrative, civil, or criminal proceedings, which could result in fines, penalties, repayments, or compensatory, treble, or other damages. certain u.s. government findings against a contractor can also lead to suspension or debarment from future u.s. government contracts or the loss of export privileges . in addition, any costs we incur that are determined to be unallowable or improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed by a government customer or must be refunded if already reimbursed. the u.s. government has the ability to decrease or withhold contract payments if it determines significant deficiencies exist in one or more business systems subject to its review. the u.s. government has, in certain instances, withheld payments on contracts upon its assessment that deficiencies exist with one or more of our business systems. when appropriate, we will modify our affected business systems to address the u.s. government's concerns. 6 in addition, the u.s. government generally has the ability to terminate contracts, in whole or in part, with little to no prior notice, for convenience or for default based on performance. in the event of termination for the government's convenience, contractors are generally protected by provisions that provide for reimbursement of costs already incurred on the contracts and profit on those costs up to the amount authorized under the contract, but not the anticipated profit that would have been earned had the contract been completed. such a termination could also result in the cancellation of future work on the related program. termination resulting from our default could expose us to various liabilities, including excess reprocurement costs, and could have a material effect on our ability to compete for future contracts. government contractors must comply with significant regulatory requirements, including those related to procurement. our contracts with the u.s. government may result in requests for equitable adjustments ("reas"), which represent requests for the u.s. government to make appropriate adjustments to terms of a contract, including pricing, delivery schedule, technical requirements, or other affected terms, due to changes in the original contract requirements and resulting delays and disruption in contract performance for which the u.s. government is responsible. we prepare, submit, and negotiate reas in the ordinary course of business, and large reas are not uncommon at the conclusion of both new construction and rcoh activities. such reas are not considered claims under the contract disputes act of 1978, although they may be converted to such claims if good faith negotiations to resolve the reas are not satisfactory. in cases where there are multiple suppliers, contracts for the construction and conversion of u.s. navy ships and submarines are generally subject to competitive bidding. in evaluating proposed prices, the u.s. navy sometimes requires that each bidder submit information on pricing, estimated costs of completion, and anticipated profit margins in order to assess cost realism. the u.s. navy uses this information and other data to determine an estimated cost for each bidder. under u.s. government regulations, certain costs, including certain financing costs and marketing expenses, are not allowable contract costs and, therefore, are not recoverable. the u.s. government also regulates the methods by which all costs, including overhead, are allocated to government contracts. our business, our contracts with various agencies of the u.s. government, and our subcontracts with other prime contractors are subject to a variety of laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, the federal acquisition regulation ("far"), the truth in negotiations act, the procurement integrity act, the false claims act, cost accounting standards, the international traffic in arms regulations promulgated under the arms export control act, the close the contractor fraud loophole act, and the foreign corrupt practices act. a noncompliance determination by a government agency may result in reductions in the values of contracts, contract modifications or terminations, penalties, fines, repayments, compensatory, treble, or other damages, or suspension or debarment. competition in our primary business of designing, building, overhauling, and repairing military ships, we primarily compete with general dynamics and, to a lesser extent, smaller shipyards, one or more of which could team with a large defense contractor. intense competition related to programs, resources, and funding, and long operating cycles are key characteristics of both our business and the shipbuilding defense industry in general. it is common industry practice to share work on major programs among a number of companies. a company competing to be a prime contractor may, upon ultimate award of the contract to another party, become a subcontractor for the prime contracting party. it is not uncommon to compete for a contract award with a peer company and, simultaneously, perform as a supplier to or a customer of such competitor on other contracts. the nature of major defense programs, conducted under binding contracts, allows companies that perform well to benefit from a level of program continuity not common in many industries. we believe we are well-positioned in the market. because we are the only company currently capable of building, refueling, and defueling the u.s. navy's nuclear-powered aircraft carriers, we believe we are in a strong competitive position to be awarded each contract to perform such activities. even so, the government periodically revisits whether refueling of nuclear-powered aircraft carriers should be performed in private or public facilities. in this regard, the national defense authorization act for fiscal year 2012 ("2012 act") required dod to develop a core depot level maintenance capability to refuel nuclear aircraft carriers. the national defense authorization act for fiscal year 2013 ("2013 act") modified the 2012 act by restoring an exception for the nuclear refueling of an aircraft carrier from the definition of core depot level maintenance. the 2013 act also amended and clarified the exception to cover the concurrent refueling and overhaul of an aircraft carrier, as well as the defueling of an aircraft carrier. 7 similarly, the 2013 act restored an exclusion for nuclear aircraft carrier programs from the definition of core logistics capabilities that was found in previous law. we are currently the only builder of large deck amphibious assault and expeditionary warfare ships for the u.s. navy, including lhas and lpds. we are, however, currently engaged in a competition to build either the next amphibious assault ship ("lha-8") or six fleet oilers ("t-ao(x)"). we are also the sole builder of nscs for the u.s. coast guard, and are positioned to be awarded future contracts for these types of vessels. we are one of only two companies currently designing and building nuclear-powered submarines for the u.s. navy, and we are party to a long-term teaming agreement with the other company for the production of such vessels. we are one of only two companies that builds the u.s. navy's current fleet of ddg-51 arleigh burke -class destroyers and are positioned to be awarded future contracts for these types of ships as well. our success in the shipbuilding defense industry depends upon our ability to develop, market, and produce our products and services at a cost consistent with the u.s. navy's budget, as well as our ability to provide the workforce, technologies, facilities, equipment and financial capacity needed to deliver those products and services with maximum efficiency. we compete with a variety of companies in the provision of engineering services in the energy and oil and gas markets. environmental, health, and safety our manufacturing operations are subject to and affected by federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. we accrue the estimated costs to complete environmental remediation when we determine it is probable we will incur expenses in the future, in amounts we can reasonably estimate, to address environmental conditions at currently or formerly owned or leased operating facilities, or at sites where we are named a potentially responsible party ("prp") by the u.s. environmental protection agency ("epa") or similarly designated by another environmental agency. the inherent difficulties in estimating future environmental remediation costs, resulting from uncertainties regarding the extent of required remediation, determination of legally responsible parties, and the status of laws and regulations and their interpretations, can cause our estimated remediation costs to change. we assess the potential impact on our financial statements of future environmental remediation costs by estimating, on a site-by-site basis, the range of reasonably possible remediation costs that we could incur, taking into account currently available information at each site, the current state of technology, and our prior experience in remediating contaminated sites. we review our estimates periodically and adjust them to reflect changes in facts, technology, and legal circumstances. we record accruals for environmental remediation costs on an undiscounted basis in the accounting period in which it becomes probable we have incurred a liability and the costs can be reasonably estimated. we would record related insurance recoveries only when we determine that collection is probable, and we do not include any litigation costs related to environmental matters in our environmental remediation accrual. we either expense or capitalize environmental expenditures as appropriate. capitalized expenditures relate to long-lived improvements in current operating facilities. we accrue environmental remediation costs at sites involving multiple parties based upon our expected share of liability, taking into account the financial viability of other jointly liable parties. we may incur remediation costs exceeding our accrued amount if other prps do not pay their allocable share of remediation costs, which could have a material effect on our business, financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. as of december 31, 2015 , our probable future costs for environmental remediation were approximately $2 million , which is accrued in other current liabilities in the consolidated statement of financial position. although information gained as projects progress may materially affect our accrued liability, we do not anticipate that future remediation expenditures will have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. we may incur environmental costs in the future related to our wind down of shipbuilding at avondale. these costs are not reasonably estimable at this time due to insufficient information about the nature, timing, and extent of any potential environmental remediation we may be required to perform or the related costs that we may incur. accordingly, potential environmental costs associated with the wind down of avondale are not included in our $2 million accrual for environmental remediation costs or our $287 million estimate of avondale asset write-downs and restructuring costs, or otherwise reflected in our consolidated financial statements. we expect that a significant 8 portion of any future environmental remediation costs we might incur at avondale would be recoverable in accordance with government accounting practices under the federal acquisition regulation ("far"). we believe that we are in material compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations, and historical environmental compliance costs have not been material to our business. we could be affected by new environmental laws or regulations, including any enacted in response to concerns over climate change, other aspects of the environment, or natural resources. we have made the investments we believe are necessary to comply with environmental laws. we expect, however, to incur capital and operating costs in the future to comply with current and future environmental laws and regulations. at this time, we do not believe such costs will have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. with regard to occupational health and safety, the shipbuilding and ship repair industry involves work with hazardous materials and processes and remains one of the most hazardous industry segments. according to the bureau of labor statistics, the shipbuilding and ship repair industry (naics 336611) ranks among the highest in several injury metrics. we have experienced one industrial related fatality in the past seven years. we strive to keep our occupational safety &amp; health administration ("osha") compliance programs strong. in 1995, our newport news shipyard became the first shipyard to be awarded the star award from osha's voluntary protection program ("osha vpp"). to earn this award, we joined efforts with our unions and supported participation in the osha vpp, in which all parties assist each other to make our shipyard a safer place to work. our cmsd facility and sn3's grand junction site have also been certified as osha vpp star sites. the u.s. navy, nuclear regulatory commission, and doe each regulate and control various matters relating to nuclear materials we handle. subject to certain requirements and limitations, our contracts with the u.s. navy and doe generally provide for indemnity by the u.s. government for losses resulting from our nuclear operations. for our commercial nuclear operations, we rely primarily on insurance carried by nuclear facility operators for risk mitigation, and we maintain limited insurance coverage for losses in excess of the coverage of facility operators. employees we have approximately 36,000 employees. we are the largest industrial employer in virginia and the largest private employer in mississippi. we employ individuals specializing in 19 crafts and trades, with approximately 4,700 engineers and designers and approximately 2,300 employees with advanced degrees. our workforce contains many third-, fourth- and fifth-generation employees, and approximately 1,100 employees have 40 or more years of continuous service. employees in our shipbuilding divisions with more than 40 years of service achieve the honor of master shipbuilder . as of december 31, 2015, there were 802 master shipbuilders at newport news and 289 at ingalls. we employ more than 5,000 veterans across the enterprise. more than 1,400 apprentices are trained by our two shipbuilding units each year in more than 26 crafts and advanced programs. from nuclear pipe welders to senior executives, approximately 4,500 apprentice alumni, 3,000 at newport news and 1,500 at ingalls, continue to work with us. approximately 50% of our employees are covered by a total of eight collective bargaining agreements and two doe site stabilization agreements. newport news has three collective bargaining agreements covering represented employees, which expire in july 2017, august 2018, and december 2018. newport news craft workers employed at the kesselring site near saratoga springs, new york are represented under an indefinite doe site agreement. newport news will begin negotiations in early 2016 with the international association of machinist and aerospace workers ("iam"), which was recently determined to be the exclusive representative for approximately 200 newport news radiological control, calibration, and laboratory technicians. ingalls has five collective bargaining agreements covering represented employees, all of which expire in march 2018. approximately 35 sn3 craft employees at the hanford site near richland, washington are represented under an indefinite doe site stabilization agreement. we believe that our relationship with our employees is satisfactory. available information our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, and current reports on form 8-k, as well as any amendments to those reports, are available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we file them with the securities and exchange commission ("sec"). you can learn more about us by reviewing our sec filings on the investor relations page on our website at www.huntingtoningalls.com. 9 our sec filings are also available at the public reference room of the sec at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. you may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling 1-800-sec-0330. the sec also maintains a website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy statements, and other information about sec registrants, including us. executive officers of the registrant see executive officers of the registrant in item 4a for information about our executive officers. forward-looking statements statements in this annual report on form 10-k and in our other filings with the sec, as well as other statements we may make from time to time, other than statements of historical fact, constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in these statements. factors that may cause such differences include: changes in government and customer priorities and requirements (including government budgetary constraints, shifts in defense spending, and changes in customer short-range and long-range plans); our ability to obtain new contracts, estimate our future contract costs and perform our contracts effectively; changes in procurement processes and government regulations and our ability to comply with such requirements; our ability to deliver our products and services at an affordable life cycle cost and compete within our markets; natural disasters; adverse economic conditions in the united states and globally; changes in key estimates and assumptions regarding our pension and retiree health care costs; security threats, including cyber security threats, and related disruptions; and other risk factors discussed herein and in our filings with the sec. there may be other risks and uncertainties that we are unable to predict at this time or that we currently do not expect to have a material adverse effect on our business, and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements. you should not place undue reliance on any forward looking statements that we may make. 10 item 1a. risk factors an investment in our common stock or debt securities involves risks and uncertainties. we seek to identify, manage, and mitigate risks to our business, but risk and uncertainty cannot be eliminated or necessarily predicted. you should consider the following factors carefully, in addition to the other information contained in this annual report on form 10-k, before deciding to purchase our securities. risks related to our business we depend heavily on a single customer, the u.s. government, for substantially all of our business, and changes affecting this customer's priorities and spending could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. our business consists primarily of the design, construction, repair, and maintenance of nuclear-powered ships, such as aircraft carriers and submarines, and non-nuclear ships, such as surface combatants and expeditionary warfare and amphibious assault ships, for the u.s. navy and coastal defense surface ships for the u.s. coast guard, as well as the refueling and overhaul and inactivation of nuclear-powered ships for the u.s. navy. most of our revenues in 2015 were derived from products and services ultimately sold to the u.s. government, and we expect this to continue in the foreseeable future. in addition, most of our backlog was u.s. government related as of december 31, 2015 . our u.s. government contracts are subject to various risks, including our customers' political and budgetary constraints and processes, changes in customers' short-range and long-range strategic plans, the timing of contract awards, significant changes in contract scheduling, intense contract and funding competition, difficulty in forecasting costs and schedules for bids on developmental and sophisticated technical work, delays in the timing of contract approval, and contractor suspension or debarment in the event of certain violations of legal or regulatory requirements. any of these factors could affect our ability to do business with the u.s. government, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. significant delays or reductions in appropriations for our programs, changes in customer priorities, and potential contract terminations could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. we are directly dependent upon congressional allocation of defense funds to the u.s. navy and the u.s. coast guard. the funding of u.s. government programs is subject to congressional budget authorization and appropriation processes. for certain programs, congress appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis even though a program may be performed over several fiscal years. consequently, programs are often partially funded initially and receive additional funding only as congress makes additional appropriations. if we incur costs in excess of existing funding on a contract, we may be at risk for reimbursement of those costs unless and until additional funds are appropriated. we cannot predict the extent to which total funding or funding for individual programs will be included, increased, or reduced as part of the annual budget process, in continuing resolutions, or in individual supplemental appropriations. the impact of congressional actions to reduce the federal debt and resulting pressures on federal spending could adversely affect the total funding of individual ships or funding for individual programs and delay purchasing or payment decisions by our customers. in august 2011, the budget control act (the "bca") reduced the dod top-line budget by $487 billion from fiscal years 2012 through 2021, representing approximately 8% of planned defense spending. additionally, because congress did not identify savings to reduce the u.s. deficit by up to $1.2 trillion prior to march 1, 2013, budgetary sequestration was implemented under the bca. sequestration requires an additional reduction from fiscal years 2012 through 2021 of $500 billion for defense spending, representing approximately 9% of planned defense spending, and $500 billion for non-defense discretionary spending, including the u.s. coast guard. on december 26, 2013, the president signed into law the bipartisan budget act of 2013 (the "bba 2013"), which provided $63 billion in sequestration relief over two years, split evenly between defense and non-defense programs, and set overall discretionary spending at $1.012 trillion and $1.013 trillion for fiscal years 2014 and 2015, respectively. on november 2, 2015, the president signed into law the bipartisan budget act of 2015 (the "bba 2015"), which provided $80 billion in sequestration relief over two years, split evenly between defense and non-defense programs. the bba 2015 provided sequestration relief of $50 billion and $30 billion for fiscal years 2016 and 2017, respectively, resulting in overall discretionary spending caps of $1.067 trillion and $1.070 trillion for fiscal years 2016 and 2017, respectively. sequestration remains in effect under the bca for fiscal years 2018 through 11 2021. enactment of the bba 2015 enabled the house and senate appropriations committees to agree upon final appropriations levels and enabled final passage and enactment of the consolidated appropriations act of 2016, which provided general spending for most of the u.s. federal government, including the dod, doe, and the department of homeland security. the consolidated appropriations act of 2016 specifically provided funding for construction of cvn-79 john f. kennedy , advance procurement funding for cvn-80 enterprise , construction of two ssn-774 virginia- class submarines, procurement for the cvn-73 uss george washington rcoh, advance procurement for the cvn-74 uss john c. stennis rcoh, continuation of ddg-51 arleigh burke- class destroyer production, advance procurement for lha-8 (unnamed), procurement of an additional lpd-17 san antonio- class warship, advance procurement to accelerate the lxr program, research, development, test, and evaluation ( rdt&amp;e ) funding for the ohio replacement program, procurement of a t-ao(x) fleet oiler, and procurement of an additional nsc for the u.s. coast guard. while the bba 2015 eliminated the implementation of sequestration reductions for fiscal years 2016 and 2017, uncertainty continues regarding the specific effects of sequestration in fiscal years 2018 through 2021, and related funding reductions that could result in the cancellation of or decreased funding for our existing programs and/or a lack of funding for future programs. the impact of the continuing federal fiscal debates for fiscal year 2017 and beyond remains uncertain, and we cannot predict the impact that the sequestration cuts or other defense spending cuts may have on funding for our individual programs. long-term funding for certain programs in which we participate may be reduced, delayed, or canceled. in addition, defense spending cuts and delays could adversely affect the viability of our suppliers and subcontractors and employee base. our contracts or subcontracts under programs in which we participate may be terminated or adjusted by the u.s. government or the prime contractor as a result of lack of government funding or reductions or delays in government funding. significant reductions in the number of ships procured by the u.s. navy or significant delays in funding our ship programs would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. the budget environment, including sequestration as currently mandated, remains a significant long-term risk. considerable uncertainty exists regarding how future budget and program decisions will develop and what challenges budget reductions will present for the defense industry. we believe continued budget pressures will have serious negative consequences for the security of our country, the defense industrial base, including us, and the customers, employees, suppliers, subcontractors, investors, and communities that rely on companies in the defense industrial base. although it is difficult to determine specific impacts, we expect that over the longer term, the budget environment may result in fewer contract awards and lower revenues, profits, and cash flows from our u.s. government contracts. congress continues to discuss various options to address sequestration in future budget planning, but we cannot predict the outcome of these efforts. it is likely budget and program decisions made in this environment will have long-term impacts on us and the entire defense industry. demand for our products and services can also be affected by potential changes in customer priorities due to changes in military strategy and planning. in response to the need for cheaper alternatives and the proliferation of "smart weapons," future strategy reassessments by the dod may result in decreased demand for our shipbuilding programs, including our aircraft carrier programs. for the year ended december 31, 2015, our aircraft carrier programs accounted for approximately 35% of our consolidated revenue. we cannot predict the impact of changes in customer priorities on existing, follow-on, replacement, or future programs. a shift of priorities to programs in which we do not participate and related reductions in funding for or the termination of programs in which we do participate could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. the u.s. government generally has the ability to terminate contracts, in whole or in part, with little to no prior notice, for convenience or for default based on performance. in the event of termination for the u.s. government's convenience, contractors are normally protected by provisions covering reimbursement of costs already incurred on the contracts and profit on those costs up to the amount authorized under the contract, but not the anticipated profit that would have been earned had the contract been completed. such a termination could also result in the cancellation of future work on the related program. termination resulting from our default can expose us to various liabilities, including excess re-procurement costs, and could negatively affect our ability to compete for future contracts. any contract termination could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. 12 cost growth on fixed price and other contracts that cannot be justified as increases in contract value due from customers exposes us to reduced profitability and to the potential loss of future business. our operating income is adversely affected when we incur certain contract costs or certain increases in contract costs that cannot be billed to customers. cost growth can occur if expenses to complete a contract increase due to technical challenges, manufacturing difficulties, delays, workforce-related issues, or inaccurate initial estimates used for calculating contract costs. reasons may include unavailability or reduced productivity of labor, the nature and complexity of the work performed, the timeliness and availability of materials, major subcontractor performance or product quality issues, performance delays, availability and timing of funding from the customer, and natural disasters. the process of estimating contract costs requires significant judgment and expertise. a significant increase in contract costs from our original cost estimates on one or more programs could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. our ability to recover the costs we incur and realize profits on contracts with our u.s. government customers depends on the type of contract under which we are performing. our u.s. government business is currently performed under firm fixed price ("ffp"), fixed price incentive ("fpi"), cost plus incentive fee ("cpif"), cost plus fixed fee ("cpff"), and cost plus award fee ("cpaf") contracts. under ffp contracts, we retain all cost savings on completed contracts but are responsible for the full amount of all expenditures in excess of the contract price. fpi contracts, on the other hand, are flexibly priced agreements under which cost overruns and underruns to an agreed target cost are shared between the u.s. government and us. the u.s. government is liable for its share of allowable costs up to a ceiling price, and we are responsible for all costs incurred in excess of such ceiling price, typically 125-135% of target cost. our profit on fpi contracts varies according to a formula set forth in the contract that generally compares the amount of costs incurred to the contract target cost. under cpif, cpff and cpaf contracts, we are generally required to perform the contract only to the extent the u.s. government makes funds available, and we recover all allowable costs incurred in the performance of the contract. under cpif contracts, our profit is determined by a contractually specified formula that compares allowable incurred costs to the contract target cost, subject in some instances to a maximum or minimum fee percentage. under cpff contracts, the dollar amount of profit received is the same without regard to the amount of costs incurred. under cpaf contracts, the dollar amount of profit received is determined by the award fee provisions in the contract. of ingalls' revenues in 2015 , approximately 89% were generated from fpi contracts, approximately 4% were generated from ffp contracts, approximately 4% were generated from cpff contracts, and approximately 3% were generated from cpaf contracts. of newport news' 2015 revenues, approximately 33% were generated from fpi contracts, consisting primarily of submarine construction contracts, approximately 32% were generated from cpff contracts, approximately 31% were generated from cpif contracts, consisting primarily of aircraft carrier construction and rcoh contracts, approximately 3% were generated from ffp contracts, and approximately 1% were generated from cpaf contracts. substantially all of our other segment's 2015 revenues were generated from ffp contracts. to the extent our mix of contract types change in the future, our ability to recover our costs and realize profits on our contracts can be negatively affected. our earnings and profitability depend upon our ability to perform under contracts. when agreeing to contract terms, we make assumptions and projections about future conditions and events, many of which extend over long periods. our assumptions and projections are based upon our assessments of the productivity and availability of labor, the complexity of the work to be performed, the cost and availability of materials, the impact of delayed performance, and the timing of product deliveries. we may experience significant variances from our assumptions and projections, delays in our contract performance, and variances in the timing of our product deliveries. if our actual experience differs significantly from one or more of our assumptions or projections, or, if we incur unanticipated contract costs, the profitability of the related contracts may be adversely affected. our earnings and profitability depend, in part, upon subcontractor performance and raw material and component availability and pricing. we rely on other companies to provide raw materials, major components, and sub-systems for our products, and we rely on subcontractors to produce hardware elements and sub-assemblies and perform certain services that we provide to our customers. we are subject to potential delivery disruptions and performance problems caused by our suppliers and subcontractors. our ability to perform our obligations as a prime contractor could be adversely 13 affected if one or more of our suppliers or subcontractors are unable to provide the agreed-upon products or materials or perform the agreed-upon services in a timely and cost-effective manner. our costs to manufacture our products can increase over the terms of our contracts. we may be protected from increases in material costs through cost escalation provisions contained in some of our u.s. government contracts, to the extent that such increases are consistent with industry indices. even with these provisions, however, the difference in basis between our actual material costs and these indices may expose us to cost uncertainty. in addition, significant delays in deliveries of key raw materials, which may occur as a result of availability or price, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. in connection with our u.s. government contracts, we are required to procure certain raw materials, components and parts from supply sources approved by the u.s. government. as a result of consolidation in the defense industry, only one supplier may exist for certain components and parts required to manufacture our products. the inability of a sole source supplier to provide a necessary component in a timely or cost-effective manner could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. changes to department of defense business practices could have a material effect on dod's procurement process and adversely impact our current programs and potential new awards. the defense industry has implemented, and we expect will continue to implement, significant changes to business practices resulting from, among other causes, an increased focus by dod on affordability, efficiencies, recovery of costs, and a reprioritization of available defense funds to key areas for future defense spending. the dod continues to adjust its procurement practices, requirements criteria, and source selection methodology in an ongoing effort to reduce costs, gain efficiencies and enhance program management and control. in addition, the dcma and dcaa have implemented cost recovery/cost savings initiatives to prioritize efforts to recover costs. as a result of certain of these initiatives, we have experienced and may continue to experience a higher number of audits and/or lengthened periods of time required to close open audits. in addition, the thresholds for certain allowable costs, including compensation costs, have been significantly reduced, and other thresholds are being challenged, debated, and, in certain cases, modified. significant changes to the thresholds for allowable costs could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. in september 2014, the dod initiated better buying power 3.0 ("bbp 3.0") to address its growing concern that the united states' technological superiority over potential adversaries is being threatened. bbp 3.0 includes eight focus areas: achieve affordable programs; achieve dominant capabilities while controlling life cycle costs; incentivize productivity in industry and government; incentivize innovation in industry and government; eliminate unproductive processes and bureaucracy; promote effective competition; improve tradecraft in acquisition of services; and improve the professionalism of the total acquisition workforce. while some of the larger objectives remained the same as those in better buying power 2.0, their focus has narrowed and the circle of stakeholders has expanded. we expect dod's focus on business practices to impact the contracting environment in which we operate as we and others in the industry adjust our practices to address the new initiatives and the reduced level of spending by the dod. we are assessing internally how we can respond to and support these changes, including how we can further reduce costs and increase productivity, modify how we respond to acquisition proposals, and revise our areas of focus. depending on how these initiatives are implemented, they could have an impact on our current programs, as well as new business opportunities with the dod. our future success depends, in part, on our ability to deliver our products and services at an affordable life cycle cost, requiring us to develop and maintain technologies, facilities, equipment and a qualified workforce to meet the needs of current and future customers. shipbuilding is a long cycle business, and our success depends on quality, cost, and schedule performance on our contracts. we must develop and maintain the workforce, technologies, facilities, equipment, and financial capacity needed to deliver our products and services at an affordable life cycle cost. if we fail to maintain our competitive position in these areas, we could lose future contracts to our competitors, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 14 our operating results are heavily dependent upon our ability to attract and retain at competitive costs a sufficient number of engineers and workers with the necessary skills and/or security clearances. at the same time, stable future revenues and costs are important for us to maintain a qualified workforce. development and maintenance of the necessary nuclear expertise and the challenges of hiring and training a qualified workforce can be a limitation on our business. if qualified personnel become scarce, we could experience higher labor, recruiting, or training costs to attract and retain qualified employees, or, if we fail to attract and retain qualified personnel, we could incur difficulties in performing our contracts and attracting new contract awards. competition within our markets or an increase in bid protests may reduce our revenues and market share. u.s. defense spending levels are uncertain and difficult to predict. the reduction in shipbuilding activity by the u.s. navy, as evidenced by the reduction in fleet size from 566 ships in 1989 to 272 ships as of december 31, 2015, has resulted in workforce reductions in the industry but little infrastructure consolidation. the general result has been fewer contracts awarded to the same fixed number of shipyards. six major private united states shipyards, three of which we own, plus numerous other smaller private shipyards compete for contracts to construct, overhaul, repair, and convert naval vessels. additionally, our products, such as aircraft carriers, submarines, amphibious assault ships, surface combatants, and other ships, compete for funding with each other, as well as with other defense products and services. we expect competition for future shipbuilding programs to be intense. we compete with another large defense contractor for construction contracts to build surface combatants and submarines, and we are currently engaged in a competition to build either the next amphibious assault ship (lha-8) or six fleet oilers (t-ao(x)). we may in the future compete with the same and other defense contractors to build other ships for which we are currently the sole source, including expeditionary warfare and amphibious assault ships. moreover, reductions in u.s. defense spending that reduce the demand for the types of ships we build and services we provide increase our risk exposure to market competition. if we are unable to continue to compete successfully against our current or future competitors, we may experience declines in revenues and market share, which could negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. although we are the only company currently capable of refueling nuclear-powered aircraft carriers, two existing u.s. government-owned shipyards may be able to refuel nuclear-powered aircraft carriers if substantial investments in facilities, personnel, and training were made. u.s. government-owned shipyards engage in the refueling, overhaul, and inactivation of ssn-688 los angeles -class submarines and are capable of repairing and overhauling non-nuclear ships. the 2012 national defense authorization act required dod to develop a core depot level maintenance capability to refuel nuclear aircraft carriers. the 2013 defense authorization act, however, modified the 2012 act by restoring an exception for the nuclear refueling of an aircraft carrier from the definition of core depot level maintenance. the 2013 act also amended and clarified the exception to cover the concurrent refueling and overhaul of an aircraft carrier, as well as the defueling of an aircraft carrier. similarly, the 2013 act restored an exclusion for nuclear aircraft carrier programs from the definition of core logistics capabilities that was contained in previous law. if a u.s. government-owned shipyard were to become capable and engaged in the refueling of nuclear-powered aircraft carriers, our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows could be adversely affected. we also compete in the shipbuilding engineering, planning, and design market with other companies that provide engineering support services. such competition increases the risk that we may not be the successful bidder on future u.s. navy engineering proposals, including aircraft carrier research and development, submarine design, and surface combatant and amphibious assault ship program contracts. our competitive environment is also affected by bid protests from unsuccessful bidders on new program awards. as the competitive environment intensifies, the number of bid protests may increase. bid protests can result in an award decision being overturned, requiring a re-bid of the contract. even when a bid protest does not result in a re-bid, resolution of the matter typically extends the time until contract performance can begin, which may reduce our earnings in the period in which the contract would otherwise be performed. as a u.s. government contractor, we are heavily regulated and could be adversely affected by changes in regulations or negative findings from a u.s. government audit or investigation. as a u.s. government contractor, we must comply with significant regulatory requirements, including those relating to procurement, cyber security, and nuclear operations. government contracting requirements increase our contract 15 performance and compliance costs and change on a consistent basis. in addition, our nuclear operations are subject to an enhanced regulatory environment, which results in increased performance and compliance efforts and costs. new laws, regulations, or procurement requirements, or changes to existing ones (including, for example, regulations related to allowability of compensation costs, cyber security, counterfeit parts, specialty metals, and conflict minerals), can increase our performance and compliance costs and reduce our profitability. we operate in a heavily regulated environment and are routinely audited and reviewed by the u.s. government and its various agencies, including the u.s. navy's supervisor of shipbuilding, the dcaa, and the dcma. these agencies review our contract performance, cost structures, and compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and standards, as well as the adequacy of, and our compliance with, our internal control systems and internal policies. systems subject to audit or review include our accounting systems, purchasing systems, billing systems, property management and control systems, cost estimating systems, earned value management systems, compensation systems, and management information and cyber security systems. if an audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to administrative, civil, or criminal proceedings, which could result in fines, penalties, repayments, or compensatory, treble, or other damages. certain u.s. government findings against a contractor can also lead to suspension or debarment from future u.s. government contracts or the loss of export privileges . allegations of impropriety can also cause us significant reputational harm. whether or not illegal activities are alleged, the u.s. government has the ability to decrease or withhold contract payments if it determines significant deficiencies exist in business systems subject to its review. the u.s. government has, in certain instances, withheld payments on certain of our contracts upon its assessment that deficiencies exist with one or more of our business systems. when appropriate, we will modify our affected business systems to address the u.s. government's concerns. the u.s. government has, from time to time, recommended that certain of our contract prices be reduced, or that certain costs allocated to our contracts be disallowed. these recommendations sometimes involve substantial dollar amounts. in response to u.s. government audits, investigations, and inquiries, we have also in the past made adjustments to our contract prices and the costs allocated to our government contracts. such audits, investigations, and inquiries may result in future reductions of our contract prices. any costs we incur that are determined to be unallowable or improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed or must be refunded if previously reimbursed. we must comply with a variety of federal laws and regulations, including the far, the truth in negotiations act, the false claims act, the procurement integrity act, the international traffic in arms regulations promulgated under the arms export control act, the close the contractor fraud loophole act, the foreign corrupt practices act, and cost accounting standards, and we are subject, from time to time, to u.s. government investigations relating to our operations. if we are convicted or otherwise found to have engaged in illegal activities, or are found not to have acted responsibly as defined by the law, we may be subject to reductions in the values of contracts, contract modifications or terminations, penalties, fines, repayments, compensatory, treble, or other damages, or suspension or debarment, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. many of our contracts contain performance obligations that require innovative design capabilities, are technologically complex, require state-of-the-art manufacturing expertise, or are dependent upon factors not wholly within our control, and failure to meet these obligations could adversely affect our profitability and future prospects. we design, develop, and manufacture products and provide services applied by our customers in a variety of environments. problems and delays in product development or with delivery of subcontractor components or services as a result of issues with respect to design, technology, licensing and intellectual property rights, labor, learning curve assumptions, or materials and parts could prevent us from satisfying contractual requirements. first-in-class ships, also known as lead ships, usually have new technology that is supplied by the u.s. navy, other contractors, or us. problems in developing these new technologies or design changes in the construction process can lead to delays in the design schedule needed for construction. the risks associated with new technology or mid-construction design changes can both increase the cost of a ship and delay delivery. late delivery of information can also cause inefficiencies in the construction process, increase costs, and put the delivery schedule at risk, which could adversely affect our profitability and future prospects. 16 our products cannot always be tested and proven and are otherwise subject to unforeseen problems, including premature failure of products that cannot be accessed for repair or replacement, substandard quality or workmanship, and unplanned degradation of product performance. these failures could result in loss of life or property and could negatively affect our results of operations by causing unanticipated expenses not covered by insurance or indemnification from the customer, diversion of management focus to respond to unforeseen problems, loss of follow-on work, and, in the case of certain contracts, repayment to the government customer of contract costs and fee payments previously received. we have experienced quality issues in the past with respect to products and services that we sell to our u.s. government customers. these issues have required significant resources to analyze the source of the deficiencies and implement corrective actions. we may discover quality issues in the future related to our products and services that require analysis and corrective action. such issues and our responses and corrective actions could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. we may not recover all of our costs related to the wind down of shipbuilding at our avondale shipyard. in october 2014, we ceased shipbuilding construction operations at our avondale, louisiana shipyard and consolidated all ingalls shipbuilding into our pascagoula shipyard. in connection with and as a result of the wind down of shipbuilding at avondale, we have incurred substantial restructuring costs and asset write-downs, which we currently estimate at $287 million . we believe that substantially all such expenses are recoverable under existing flexibly-priced contracts or future negotiated contracts in accordance with far provisions governing the treatment of restructuring and shutdown related costs. we have engaged in communications and negotiations with the u.s. navy since 2010 regarding the amount and recovery of our restructuring and shutdown costs. in august 2015, we received a letter from the supervisor of shipbuilding's contracting officer ("contracting officer"), with a preliminary determination that our method of allocating as indirect costs certain employee retention and incentive expenses, which could be up to $57 million , did not comply with cost accounting allocation regulations. we have responded with our basis supporting our cost allocation positions and sought a determination that supports our method of cost allocation. we currently do not have an agreement with the u.s. navy regarding the government contract accounting and pricing treatment of the restructuring and shutdown costs associated with our wind down of operations at avondale. we may also incur environmental costs in connection with the wind down. such costs, which we cannot reasonably estimate at this time, could be significant. the actual restructuring expenses we incur in connection with our wind down of avondale, including potential environmental costs, may be greater than our current estimate, and any inability to recover our restructuring expenses substantially in accordance with our cost recovery expectations could result in a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. we use estimates when accounting for contracts. changes in estimates could affect our profitability and our overall financial position. contract accounting requires judgment relative to assessing risks, estimating contract revenues and costs, and making assumptions for schedule and technical issues. the size and nature of many of our contracts make the estimation of total revenues and costs at completion complicated and subject to many variables. for new shipbuilding programs, we estimate, negotiate and contract for construction of ships that are not completely designed. assessing risks, estimating contract revenues and costs, and making assumptions for schedule and technical issues for these ships are subject to the variability of the final ship design and evolving scope of work. our assumptions on ship contracts include the length of time to complete the contract, because total costs include expected increases in wages and material prices. similarly, our assumptions include the future impact of our efficiency initiatives and cost reduction efforts. we consider incentives, awards, and penalties related to contract performance in estimating revenues and profit rates, and we record them when sufficient information exists to assess anticipated contract performance. the judgment and estimation processes described above are significant to our contract accounting, and materially different amounts can be generated if different assumptions are used or if actual events differ from our assumptions. future changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances, or estimates may have a material adverse effect on our future financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. see critical accounting policies, estimates, and judgments in item 7. 17 our business is subject to disruption caused by natural disasters, environmental disasters, and other events that could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. we have significant operations located in regions of the united states that have been and may in the future be exposed to damaging storms, such as hurricanes, floods, and environmental disasters, such as oil spills. the damage and disruption resulting from natural and environmental disasters may be significant. natural disasters can disrupt our facilities, systems, or projects, which can interrupt operational processes and performance on our contracts. should insurance or other risk transfer mechanisms be unavailable or insufficient to recover material costs associated with natural or environmental disasters, we could experience a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. see our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover all of our significant risks or our insurers may deny coverage of material losses we incur, which could adversely affect our profitability and financial position. natural disasters can disrupt our workforce, electrical and other power distribution networks, computer and internet operations and accessibility, and the critical industrial infrastructure needed for normal business operations. these disruptions could adversely affect our contract performance and financial results. environmental disasters, particularly oil spills in waterways and bodies of water used for the transport and testing of our ships, can disrupt the timing of performance under our contracts with the u.s. navy and the u.s. coast guard. our suppliers and subcontractors are also subject to natural and environmental disasters that could affect their ability to deliver products or services or otherwise perform their contracts. performance failures by our subcontractors due to natural or environmental disasters may adversely affect our ability to perform our contracts, which could reduce our profitability in the event damages or other costs are not recoverable from the subcontractor, the customer, or insurers. such events could also result in a termination of the prime contract and have an adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts. in addition to the types of events described above, operation of our facilities may be disrupted by civil unrest, acts of sabotage or terrorism, and other local security concerns. such events may require us to incur greater costs for security or to shut down operations for a period of time. our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover all of our significant risks or our insurers may deny coverage of material losses we incur, which could adversely affect our profitability and financial position. we seek to negotiate and enter into insurance agreements to cover our significant risks and potential liabilities, including, among others, natural disasters, product liability, and business interruption resulting from an insured property loss. in some circumstances, we may be indemnified for losses by the u.s. government, subject to the availability of appropriated funds. not every risk or liability can be protected by insurance, and, for insurable risks, the limits of coverage reasonably obtainable in the market may not be sufficient to cover the full amount of actual losses or liabilities incurred, including, for example, in the case of a catastrophic hurricane. in addition, the nature of our business makes it difficult to quantify the disruptive impact of such events. such limitations on the availability of insurance coverage may result in us bearing substantial costs for uninsured losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. even in cases where we have insurance coverage, disputes with insurance carriers over coverage may affect the timing of cash flows, and, if litigation with the insurance carrier becomes necessary, an outcome unfavorable to us may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. our business could suffer if we are unsuccessful in negotiating new collective bargaining agreements. approximately 50% of our employees are covered by a total of eight collective bargaining agreements and two doe site stabilization agreements. newport news has three collective bargaining agreements covering represented employees, which expire in july 2017, august 2018, and december 2018. newport news craft workers employed at the kesselring site near saratoga springs, new york are represented under an indefinite doe site agreement. newport news will begin negotiations in early 2016 with iam, which was recently determined to be the exclusive representative for approximately 200 newport news radiological control, calibration, and laboratory technicians. ingalls has five collective bargaining agreements covering represented employees, all of which expire in march 2018. approximately 35 sn3 craft employees at the hanford site near richland, washington are represented under an indefinite doe site stabilization agreement. 18 collective bargaining agreements generally expire after three to five years, and we negotiate successor agreements as each of our collective bargaining agreements expires. while we believe we maintain good relationships with our represented workers, it is possible that we may experience difficulties renegotiating expiring collective bargaining agreements. we have, in the past, experienced work stoppages, strikes, and other labor disruptions associated with the collective bargaining of new labor agreements. if we experience such events in the future, we could incur additional expenses or work delays that could adversely affect programs served by employees who are covered by collective bargaining agreements. changes in key estimates and assumptions, such as discount rates and assumed long-term returns on assets, actual investment returns on our pension plan assets, and legislative and regulatory actions could significantly affect our earnings, equity, and contributions to our defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans in future periods. our pension and retiree health care costs are dependent on significant judgment regarding various estimates and assumptions, particularly with respect to the discount rate and expected long-term rates of return on plan assets. changes to these estimates and assumptions could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. differences between actual investment returns and our assumed long-term returns on assets will result in future changes in pension expense and the funded status of our plans, and could increase future funding of the plans. timing differences exist among the accrual of pension costs under accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america ("gaap"), pension funding requirements, and the recovery of pension costs that are allowable under our government contracts. such timing differences could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. on december 27, 2011, the u.s. cost accounting standards ("cas") board issued its final cas harmonization rule. the rule impacted pension costs on contracts beginning in 2013 and was effective for forward pricing purposes for contracts negotiated on or after february 27, 2012. although we believe contractors are entitled to an equitable adjustment on cas-covered contracts awarded prior to the february 27, 2012 effective date, the application of this rule could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows if we are unable to successfully recover such equitable adjustment. for a complete discussion regarding how our consolidated financial statements can be affected by pension plan accounting policies and regulatory changes, see critical accounting policies, estimates, and judgments in item 7. unforeseen environmental costs could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. our operations are subject to and affected by a variety of existing federal, state, and local environmental protection laws and regulations. in addition, we could be affected by future laws or regulations, including those imposed in response to concerns over climate change, other aspects of the environment, or natural resources. we expect to incur future capital and operating costs to comply with current and future environmental laws and regulations, and such costs could be substantial, depending on the future proliferation of environmental rules and regulations and the extent to which we discover currently unknown environmental conditions. shipbuilding operations require the use of hazardous materials. our shipyards also generate significant quantities of wastewater, which we treat before discharging pursuant to various permits. to handle these materials, our shipyards have an extensive network of aboveground and underground storage tanks, some of which have leaked and required remediation in the past. in addition, our handling of hazardous materials has sometimes resulted in spills in our shipyards and occasionally in adjacent rivers and waterways in which we operate. our shipyards maintain extensive waste handling programs that we periodically modify, consistent with changes in applicable laws and regulations. see environmental, health and safety in item 1. various federal, state, and local environmental laws and regulations impose restrictions on the discharge of pollutants into the environment and establish standards for the transportation, storage, and disposal of toxic and hazardous wastes. substantial fines, penalties, and criminal sanctions may be imposed for noncompliance, and certain environmental laws impose joint and several "strict liability" for remediation of spills and releases of oil and hazardous substances. such laws and regulations render a party liable for environmental cleanup and remediation costs and damage without regard to negligence or fault on the part of such party and could expose us to liability for the conduct of or conditions caused by third parties. 19 in addition to fines, penalties, and criminal sanctions, environmental laws and regulations may require the installation of costly pollution control equipment or operational changes to limit pollution emissions or discharges and/or to decrease the likelihood of accidental hazardous material releases. we have incurred, and expect to incur in the future, costs to comply with federal and state environmental laws and regulations related to the cleanup of pollutants released into the environment. in addition, if we are found to be in violation of the clean air act or the clean water act, the facility or facilities involved in the violation could be placed by the epa on the "excluded parties list" maintained by the general services administration, which would continue until the epa concluded that the cause of the violation was cured. facilities on the "excluded parties list" are prohibited from working on any u.s. government contract. the adoption of new environmental laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, imposition of new cleanup requirements, discovery of previously unknown or more extensive contamination, litigation involving environmental impacts, our inability to recover related costs under our government contracts, or the financial insolvency of other responsible parties could cause us to incur costs that could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. we ceased shipbuilding construction at our avondale, louisiana shipyard in 2014. our wind down of operations at this shipyard may result in environmental costs, the amount of which we cannot currently estimate. such costs could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. market volatility and adverse capital or credit market conditions may affect our ability to access cost-effective sources of funding and may expose us to risks associated with the financial viability of suppliers and subcontractors and the ability of counterparties to perform on financial agreements. the financial markets can experience high levels of volatility and disruption, reducing the availability of credit for certain issuers. we may access these markets from time to time to support certain business activities, including funding acquisitions and capital expansion projects and refinancing existing indebtedness. we also access these markets to obtain credit support for our workers' compensation self-insurance program and arrange for letters of credit. a number of factors could cause us to incur increased borrowing costs and to have greater difficulty accessing public and private markets for debt. these factors include disruptions or declines in the global capital markets and/or a decline in our financial performance, outlook, or credit ratings. the occurrence of any or all of these events may adversely affect our ability to fund our operations, meet contractual or financing commitments, make future investments or desirable acquisitions, or respond to competitive challenges. tightening credit markets could also adversely affect our suppliers' and subcontractors' ability to obtain financing. delays in suppliers' or subcontractors' ability to obtain financing, or the unavailability of financing, could negatively affect their ability to perform their contracts with us and cause our inability to perform our contracts. the inability of our suppliers and subcontractors to obtain financing could also result in the need for us to transition to alternate suppliers and subcontractors, which could result in significant incremental costs and delays. we have existing agreements with counterparties in the financial markets, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, and other institutional parties, and may in the future enter into agreements with such parties. these transactions expose us to potential credit risk in the event of default of a counterparty. in addition, our credit risk may be increased when collateral held by us to secure performance of a counterparty cannot be liquidated upon a sale or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount due to us under the related contract. our reputation and our ability to do business may be impacted by the improper conduct of employees, agents, or business partners. our compliance program includes detailed compliance plans and related compliance controls, policies, procedures, and training designed to prevent and detect misconduct by employees, agents, or business partners that would violate the laws of the jurisdictions in which we operate, including laws governing payments to government officials, the protection of export controlled or classified information, cost accounting and billing, competition, and data privacy. we may not, however, prevent all such misconduct committed by our employees, agents, or business partners, and the risk of improper conduct may be expected to increase as we expand into commercial markets and foreign jurisdictions. any improper actions by our employees, agents, or business partners could subject us to administrative, civil, or criminal investigations and monetary and non-monetary penalties, including suspension or 20 debarment, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. any such improper actions could also cause us significant reputational harm. our business could be negatively impacted by security threats, including cyber security threats, and related disruptions. as a defense contractor, we rely on our information technology infrastructure to process, transmit, and store electronic information, including classified and other sensitive information of the u.s. government. while we maintain stringent information security policies and protocols, we face cyber security and other security threats to our information technology infrastructure, including threats to our and the u.s. government's proprietary and classified information. we face unauthorized and unlawful attempts to gain access to our information technology infrastructure, including coordinated attacks from groups of hackers, and we could also face attempts to gain physical access to classified and other sensitive information located at our facilities. our information technology infrastructure is critical to the efficient operation of our business and essential to our ability to perform day-to-day operations. breaches of our information technology infrastructure or physical facilities could cause us to incur significant recovery and restoration expenses; degrade performance on existing contracts; and expose us to reputational damage, potential liability, or the loss of current or future contracts, including work on sensitive or classified systems for the u.s. government, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. our nuclear operations subject us to various environmental, regulatory, financial, and other risks. the design, construction, refueling and overhaul, repair, and inactivation of nuclear-powered aircraft carriers and nuclear-powered submarines, our nuclear facilities used to support such activities, our nuclear operations at doe sites, and our activities in the commercial nuclear market subject us to various risks, including: potential liabilities relating to harmful effects on the environment and human health resulting from nuclear operations and the storage, handling, and disposal of radioactive materials, including nuclear assemblies and their components; unplanned expenditures relating to maintenance, operation, security, and repair, including repairs required by the u.s. navy, the nuclear regulatory commission or the doe; reputational harm; potential liabilities arising out of a nuclear incident whether or not it is within our control; and regulatory noncompliance and loss of authorizations or indemnifications necessary for our operations. failure to properly handle nuclear materials could pose a health risk to humans or wildlife and could cause personal injury and property damage, including environmental contamination. if a nuclear accident were to occur, its severity could be significantly affected by the volume of the materials and the speed of corrective action taken by us and emergency response personnel, as well as other factors beyond our control, such as weather and wind conditions. actions we might take in response to an accident could result in significant costs. our nuclear operations are subject to various safety related requirements imposed by the u.s. navy, doe, and nuclear regulatory commission. in the event of noncompliance, these agencies may increase regulatory oversight, impose fines, or shut down our operations, depending on their assessment of the severity of the noncompliance. in addition, new or revised security and safety requirements imposed by the u.s. navy, doe, and nuclear regulatory commission could necessitate substantial capital and other expenditures. subject to certain requirements and limitations, our contracts with the u.s. navy and doe generally provide for indemnity by the u.s. government for costs arising out of or resulting from our nuclear operations. we may not, however, be indemnified for all liabilities we may incur in connection with our nuclear operations. to mitigate risks related to our commercial nuclear operations, we rely primarily on insurance carried by nuclear facility operators and our own limited insurance for losses in excess of the coverage of facility operators. such insurance, however, may not be sufficient to cover our costs in the event of an accident or business interruption relating to our commercial nuclear operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. 21 changes in future business conditions could cause business investments, recorded goodwill, and/or purchased intangible assets to become impaired, resulting in substantial losses and write-downs that would reduce our operating income. as part of our business strategy, we acquire non-controlling and controlling interests in businesses. we make acquisitions and investments following careful analysis and due diligence processes designed to achieve a desired return or strategic objective. business acquisitions generally involve estimates, assumptions and judgments in determining acquisition prices, which prices are allocated among acquired assets, including goodwill, based upon fair market values. notwithstanding our analyses, due diligence processes and business integration efforts, actual operating results of acquired businesses may vary significantly from initial estimates. in such events, we may be required to write down our carrying value of the related goodwill and/or purchased intangible assets. in addition, declines in the trading price of our common stock or the market as a whole can result in goodwill and/or purchased intangible asset impairment charges. as of december 31, 2015 , goodwill and purchased intangible assets generated from prior business acquisitions accounted for approximately 16% and 8% , respectively, of our total assets. we evaluate goodwill values for impairment annually on november 30, or when evidence of potential impairment exists. we also evaluate the values of purchased intangible assets when evidence of potential impairment exists. the impairment tests are based on several factors requiring judgment. as a general matter, a significant decrease in expected cash flows or changes in market conditions may indicate potential impairment of recorded goodwill or purchased intangible assets. in the fourth quarter of 2015, the second quarter of 2015, and the fourth quarter of 2014, we recorded goodwill impairment charges at our other segment of $16 million , $59 million , and $47 million , respectively. the other segment, established in the second quarter of 2014 following the acquisition of upi, is sensitive to developments in the oil and gas industry. the goodwill impairment charges were primarily driven by continuing declines in oil prices and the resulting decreases in industry market multiples. in the fourth quarter of 2015, we recorded an intangible asset impairment of $27 million at our other segment as a result of declining market conditions and updated expectations. adverse equity market conditions that result in a decline in market multiples and the trading price of our common stock, or other events such as reductions in future contract awards or significant adverse changes in our operating margins or operating results of acquired businesses that vary significantly from projected results on which purchase prices are based, could result in an impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets. any such impairments that result in us recording additional goodwill impairment charges could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. unanticipated changes in our tax provisions or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability and cash flow. we are subject to income taxes in various jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of business, the ultimate tax determination of many of our transactions and calculations is uncertain. in addition, timing differences in the recognition of contract income for financial statement purposes and for income tax purposes can cause uncertainty with respect to the timing of income tax payments, which can have a significant impact on cash flow in a particular period. changes in applicable income tax laws and regulations, or their interpretation, could result in higher or lower income tax rates or changes in the taxability of certain transactions or the deductibility of certain expenses, thereby affecting our income tax expense and profitability. in addition, the final results of any tax audits or related litigation could be materially different from our related historical income tax provisions and accruals. changes in our tax rate as a result of changes in our overall profitability, changes in tax legislation, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in differences between financial statement income and taxable income, the examination of previously filed tax returns by taxing authorities, and continuing assessments of our tax exposures can also impact our tax liabilities and affect our income tax expense, profitability, and cash flow. 22 we conduct a portion of our operations through joint ventures and strategic alliances. we may have limited control over such arrangements and experience returns that are not proportional to the risks and resources we contribute. we conduct some of our operations through joint ventures with business partners. in any joint venture arrangement, differences in views among the joint venture participants may result in delayed decisions or in failures to reach agreement on major issues. we and our joint venture partners may, in certain instances, fail to reach agreement on significant decisions on a timely basis, or at all. we also cannot control the actions of our joint venture partners, including any non-performance, default, or bankruptcy of our joint venture partners, and we typically share liability or have joint and/or several liability with our joint venture partners for joint venture matters. any of these factors could potentially have a material adverse effect on our joint venture operations and the profitability of our joint ventures. in joint ventures in which we hold a minority interest, we have limited control over many decisions relating to joint venture projects and internal controls relating to operations. these joint ventures may not be subject to the same requirements regarding internal controls and internal control reporting that apply to us. as a result, internal control issues may arise that could have a material adverse effect on the joint venture. in addition, in order to establish or preserve relationships with our joint venture partners, we may agree to assume risks and contribute resources that are proportionately greater than the returns we expect to receive in the related joint venture. such agreements may reduce our income and returns on these investments compared to what we would have received if our assumed risks and contributed resources were proportionate to our returns. strategic acquisitions and investments we pursue involve risks and uncertainties. in pursuing our business strategy, we review, evaluate, and consider potential acquisitions and investments. in evaluating such transactions, we have to make difficult judgments regarding the value of business opportunities, technologies, and other assets, the risks and costs of potential liabilities, and the future prospects of business opportunities. in addition, acquisitions and investments involve other risks and uncertainties, including the difficulty of integrating acquired businesses, challenges achieving strategic objectives and other benefits anticipated from acquisitions or investments, the diversion of management attention and resources from our existing operations and other initiatives, the potential impairment of acquired assets, and the potential loss of key employees of acquired businesses. our financial results, business, and future prospects could be adversely affected by unanticipated performance issues at acquired businesses, transaction-related charges, liabilities, amortization of expenses related to purchased intangible assets, and charges for impairment of purchased intangible assets. we are subject to various claims and litigation that could ultimately be resolved against us, requiring material future cash payments and/or future material charges against our operating income, materially impairing our financial position or cash flows. the size, nature, and complexity of our business make it highly susceptible to claims and litigation. we are currently, and may in the future become, subject to various administrative, civil, or criminal litigation, environmental claims, income tax matters, compliance matters, claims, and investigations, which could divert financial and management resources and result in fines, penalties, compensatory, treble or other damages, or nonmonetary relief. government regulations also provide that certain allegations against a contractor may lead to suspension or debarment from government contracts or suspension of export privileges. suspension or debarment could have a material adverse effect on us because of our reliance on government contracts and authorizations. litigation, claims, or investigations, if ultimately resolved against us, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. any litigation, claim, or investigation, even if fully indemnified or insured, could negatively impact our reputation among our customers and the public and make it more difficult for us to compete effectively or obtain adequate insurance in the future. 23 we may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, which could affect our ability to compete. we own certain patents, trademarks, copyrights, and other forms of intellectual property, and we license certain intellectual property rights to and from third parties. the u.s. government generally holds licenses to certain intellectual property we develop in performance of government contracts, and it may use or authorize others to use such intellectual property. more recently, the u.s. government has asserted or sought to obtain more extensive rights in intellectual property associated with its contracts. the u.s. government's efforts could result in a decrease in our ability to control the use of certain of our intellectual property rights in a government contracting environment. our intellectual property is also subject to challenge, invalidation, misappropriation, or circumvention by third parties. we also rely upon proprietary technology, information, processes, and know-how that are not protected by patents. we seek to protect this information through trade secret or confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, subcontractors, and other parties, as well as through other measures. these agreements and other measures may not, however, provide meaningful protection for our unpatented proprietary information. in the event of infringement of our intellectual property rights, breach of a confidentiality agreement, or unauthorized disclosure of proprietary information, we may not have adequate legal remedies to maintain our rights in our intellectual property. litigation to determine the scope of our rights, even if successful, could be costly and a diversion of management's attention from other aspects of our business. in addition, trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. if we are unable adequately to protect our intellectual property rights, our business could be adversely affected. we have the right to use certain intellectual property licensed to us by third parties. in instances where third parties have licensed to us the right to use their intellectual property, we may be unable in the future to secure the necessary licenses to use such intellectual property on commercially reasonable terms. our debt exposes us to certain risks. as of december 31, 2015, we had $1,273 million of debt and $1,223 million of additional borrowing capacity under our second amended and restated credit agreement (the amended credit facility ). our current level of debt could have important consequences, including: increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic or industry conditions; requiring us to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, strategic initiatives, and general corporate purposes; increasing our vulnerability to, and limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or the industries in which we operate; exposing us to the risk of higher interest rates, to the extent borrowings under our amended credit facility are subject to variable rates of interest; placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and limiting our ability to borrow additional funds. because we use a portion of our cash flow from operations to service our debt, we could fail to generate sufficient cash to fund our liquidity needs or fail to satisfy the restrictive covenants and borrowing limitations to which we are subject under our various debt arrangements. moreover, we have significant additional borrowing capacity and may be able to incur significant additional debt in the future. to the extent new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we face could be increased. restrictive covenants in the indentures governing our senior notes and our amended credit facility may restrict our ability to pursue our business strategies. the terms of our amended credit facility limit our ability, among other things, to: incur additional debt; pay dividends or make other distributions on, or repurchase or redeem, our stock; prepay, redeem, or repurchase certain of our debt; 24 make investments; consolidate, merge, sell, or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and incur liens. the indentures governing our two tranches of 5.000% senior notes limit our ability, among other things, to: consolidate, merge, sell, or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and incur liens. in addition, the terms of our amended credit facility require us to maintain a maximum leverage ratio. these covenants may restrict our financial flexibility, limit our strategic initiatives, restrict our ability to grow, or limit our ability to respond to competitive changes. these covenants may affect how we conduct our business, and we may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or capital needs. these covenants may, therefore, affect our ability to successfully execute our business strategy and operate our business. our spin-off from northrop grumman exposes us to potential liabilities, including u.s. federal income tax liabilities. our spin-off from northrop grumman was structured to minimize the likelihood that northrop grumman, northrop grumman's stockholders, and we would be required to recognize any taxable income, gain, or loss for u.s. federal income tax purposes as a result of the spin-off, except with respect to cash received by northrop grumman's stockholders in lieu of fractional shares. if all or a portion of the spin-off does not qualify as a tax-free transaction, northrop grumman would recognize a substantial gain for u.s. federal income tax purposes. in such case, under irs regulations, each member of northrop grumman's consolidated group at the time of the spin-off, including us and our subsidiaries, would be severally liable for the resulting u.s. federal income tax liability. in connection with the spin-off, northrop grumman and we agreed that each of us would be responsible for the debts, liabilities, and other obligations related to the respective business or businesses that we own and operate following the spin-off. although we do not expect to be liable for any such obligations not expressly assumed by us, it is possible that a court would disregard the agreed allocation and require that we assume responsibility for obligations allocated to northrop grumman, such as certain tax and/or environmental liabilities, particularly if northrop grumman were to refuse or be unable to pay or perform its allocated obligations. anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and delaware law, as well as regulatory requirements, could delay or prevent a change in control. certain provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws may delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that stockholders may consider favorable. for example, our restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws currently provide for a classified board of directors, require advance notice for stockholder proposals and director nominations, and authorize our board of directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock. these provisions may discourage acquisition proposals or delay or prevent a change in control, which could harm our stock price. delaware law also imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock and us. our nuclear shipbuilding operations are considered vitally important to the u.s. navy. consequently, the u.s. navy has required us to include in our contracts with the navy provisions regarding notice and approval rights in the event of a change of control of our nuclear shipbuilding operations and regarding the navy's obligations to indemnify us for losses relating to our nuclear work for the navy. such provisions require us to provide the u.s. navy with notice of any potential change of control of our nuclear shipbuilding operations and obtain the navy's consent for transferring certain related licenses, to facilitate the navy's ability to ensure that a potential buyer would continue to conduct our operations in a satisfactory manner. we have included such provisions in solicitations for future u.s. navy nuclear work, and we expect them to be included in future contracts with the navy for nuclear work. provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and our restated bylaws and our existing contracts with the u.s. navy may have the effect of discouraging, delaying, or preventing a change of control of our company that may be beneficial to our stockholders. 25 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 62 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk, primarily related to interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. interest rates - our financial instruments subject to interest rate risk include floating rate borrowings under our amended credit facility. our $1,250 million revolving facility under our amended credit facility was undrawn as of december 31, 2015 . foreign currency - we currently have, and in the future may enter into, foreign currency forward contracts to manage foreign currency exchange rate risk related to payments to suppliers denominated in foreign currencies. as of december 31, 2015 , the fair values of our outstanding foreign currency forward contracts were not significant. 62risk factors 11 we operate in a heavily regulated environment and are routinely audited and reviewed by the u.s. government and its agencies, including the u.s. navy's supervisor of shipbuilding, the defense contract audit agency ("dcaa"), and the defense contract management agency ("dcma"). these agencies evaluate our contract performance, cost structures, and compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and standards, as well as the adequacy of, and our compliance with, our internal control systems and policies. systems subject to audit or review include our accounting systems, purchasing systems, billing systems, property management and control systems, cost estimating systems, earned value management systems, compensation systems, and management information systems. if an audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to administrative, civil, or criminal proceedings, which could result in fines, penalties, repayments, or compensatory, treble, or other damages. certain u.s. government findings against a contractor can also lead to suspension or debarment from future u.s. government contracts or the loss of export privileges . in addition, any costs we incur that are determined to be unallowable or improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be recovered or must be refunded if already reimbursed. the u.s. government has the ability to decrease or withhold contract payments if it determines significant deficiencies exist in one or more business systems subject to its review. the u.s. government has, in certain instances, withheld contract payments upon its assessment that deficiencies exist with one or more of our business systems. when appropriate, we modify our affected business systems to address the u.s. government's concerns. the u.s. government generally has the ability to terminate contracts, in whole or in part, with little to no prior notice, for convenience or for default based on performance. in the event of termination for convenience, contractors are normally able to recover costs already incurred on the contracts and receive profit on those costs up to the amount authorized under the contract, but not the anticipated profit that would have been earned had the contract been completed. such a termination could also result in the cancellation of future work on the related program. termination resulting from our default could expose us to various liabilities, including excess reprocurement costs, and could have a material effect on our ability to compete for future contracts. government contractors must comply with significant regulatory requirements, including those related to procurement. our contracts with the u.s. government may result in requests for equitable adjustments ("reas"), 6 which represent requests for the u.s. government to make appropriate adjustments to contract terms, including pricing, delivery schedule, technical requirements, or other affected terms, due to changes in the original contract requirements and resulting delays and disruption in contract performance for which the u.s. government is responsible. we prepare, submit, and negotiate reas in the ordinary course of business, and large reas are not uncommon at the conclusion of both new construction and rcoh activities. such reas are not considered claims under the contract disputes act of 1978, although they may be converted to such claims if good faith negotiations to resolve the reas are not satisfactory. in cases where there are multiple suppliers, contracts for the construction and conversion of u.s. navy ships and submarines are generally subject to competitive bidding. in evaluating proposed prices, the u.s. navy sometimes requires that each bidder submit information on pricing, estimated costs of completion, and anticipated profit margins in order to assess cost realism. the u.s. navy uses this information and other data to determine an estimated cost for each bidder. under u.s. government regulations, certain costs, including certain financing costs and marketing expenses, are not allowable contract costs and, therefore, are not recoverable. the u.s. government also regulates the methods by which all allowable costs, including overhead, are allocated to government contracts. our business, our contracts with various agencies of the u.s. government, and our subcontracts with other prime contractors are subject to a variety of laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, the federal acquisition regulation ("far"), the truth in negotiations act, the procurement integrity act, the false claims act, cost accounting standards, the international traffic in arms regulations promulgated under the arms export control act, the close the contractor fraud loophole act, and the foreign corrupt practices act. a noncompliance determination by a government agency may result in reductions in contract values, contract modifications or terminations, penalties, fines, repayments, compensatory, treble, or other damages, or suspension or debarment. competition in our primary business of designing, building, overhauling, and repairing military ships, we primarily compete with general dynamics and, to a lesser extent, smaller shipyards, one or more of which could team with a large defense contractor. intense competition related to programs, resources, and funding, and long operating cycles are key characteristics of both our business and the shipbuilding defense industry in general. it is common industry practice to share work on major programs among a number of companies. a company competing to be a prime contractor may, upon ultimate award of the contract to another party, become a subcontractor for the prime contracting party. it is not uncommon to compete for a contract award with a peer company and, simultaneously, perform as a supplier to or a customer of such competitor on other contracts. the nature of major defense programs, conducted under binding long-term contracts, allows companies that perform well to benefit from a level of program continuity not common in many industries. we believe we are well-positioned in our markets. because we are the only company currently capable of building, refueling, and inactivating the u.s. navy's nuclear-powered aircraft carriers, we believe we are in a strong competitive position to be awarded each contract to perform such activities. even so, the government periodically revisits whether refueling of nuclear-powered aircraft carriers should be performed in private or public facilities. if a u.s. government owned shipyard were to become capable and engaged in the refueling of nuclear-powered aircraft carriers, our market position could be significantly and adversely affected. although we recently competed with another large defense contractor for the first time to construct a large deck amphibious ship which was awarded to us, we are currently the only builder of large deck amphibious assault and expeditionary warfare ships for the u.s. navy, including lhas and lpds. we are also the sole builder of nscs for the u.s. coast guard and well positioned to be awarded future contracts for these types of vessels. we are one of only two companies currently designing and building nuclear-powered submarines for the u.s. navy, and we are party to a long-term teaming agreement with the other company for the production of such vessels. we are one of only two companies that builds the u.s. navy's current fleet of arleigh burke class (ddg 51) destroyers and are well positioned to be awarded future contracts for these types of ships as well. our success in the shipbuilding defense industry depends upon our ability to develop, market, and produce our products and services at a cost consistent with the u.s. navy's budget, as well as our ability to provide the workforce, technologies, facilities, equipment, and financial capacity needed to deliver those products and services with maximum efficiency. 7 we compete with a variety of companies in the provision of services to the government, energy, and oil and gas markets. environmental, health, and safety our manufacturing operations are subject to and affected by federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. we accrue estimated costs to complete environmental remediation when we determine it is probable we will incur expenses in the future, in amounts we can reasonably estimate, to address environmental conditions at currently or formerly owned or leased operating facilities, or at sites where we are named a potentially responsible party ("prp") by the u.s. environmental protection agency ("epa") or similarly designated by another environmental agency. the inherent difficulties in estimating future environmental remediation costs, resulting from uncertainties regarding the extent of required remediation, determination of legally responsible parties, and the status of laws and regulations and their interpretations, can cause our estimated remediation costs to change. we assess the potential impact on our financial statements of future environmental remediation costs by estimating, on a site-by-site basis, the range of reasonably possible remediation costs that we could incur, taking into account currently available information at each site, the current state of technology, and our prior experience in remediating contaminated sites. we review our estimates periodically and adjust them to reflect changes in facts, technology, and legal circumstances. we record accruals for environmental remediation costs on an undiscounted basis in the accounting period in which it becomes probable we have incurred a liability and the costs can be reasonably estimated. we would record related insurance recoveries only when we determine that collection is probable, and we do not include any litigation costs related to environmental matters in our environmental remediation accrual. we either expense or capitalize environmental expenditures as appropriate. capitalized expenditures relate to long-lived improvements in current operating facilities. we accrue environmental remediation costs at sites involving multiple parties based upon our expected share of liability, taking into account the financial viability of other jointly liable parties. we may incur remediation costs exceeding our accrued amount if other prps do not pay their allocable share of remediation costs, which could have a material effect on our business, financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. as of december 31, 2016 , our probable future costs for environmental remediation were approximately $1 million , which were accrued in other current liabilities in the consolidated statement of financial position. although information gained as projects progress may materially affect our accrued liability, we do not anticipate that future remediation expenditures will have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. we may incur additional environmental costs in the future related to our wind down of shipbuilding at avondale. any additional costs are not reasonably estimable at this time due to insufficient information about the nature, timing, and extent of any potential environmental remediation we may be required to perform or the related costs that we may incur. accordingly, such potential environmental costs associated with the wind down of avondale are not included in our $1 million accrual for environmental remediation costs or our $276 million estimate of avondale restructuring costs, or otherwise reflected in our consolidated financial statements. we expect that a significant portion of any future environmental remediation costs we might incur at avondale would be recoverable in accordance with government accounting practices under the far. we believe that we are in material compliance with environmental laws and regulations, and historical environmental compliance costs have not been material to our business. we could be affected by new environmental laws or regulations, including any enacted in response to concerns over climate change, other aspects of the environment, or natural resources. we have made investments we believe are necessary to comply with environmental laws, but we expect to continue to incur capital and operating costs in the future to comply with current and future environmental laws and regulations. at this time, we do not believe such costs will have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. with regard to occupational health and safety, the shipbuilding and ship repair industry involves work with hazardous materials and processes and remains one of the most hazardous industries. according to the bureau of labor statistics, the shipbuilding and ship repair industry (naics 336611) ranks among the highest in several injury metrics. we have experienced one industrial related fatality in the past seven years. we strive to keep our occupational safety and health administration ("osha") compliance programs strong. in 1995, our newport news shipyard became the first shipyard to be awarded the star award from osha's voluntary protection program 8 ("osha vpp"). to earn this award, we joined efforts with our unions and supported participation in the osha vpp, in which all parties assist each other to make our shipyard a safer place to work. our cmsd facility has also been certified as an osha vpp star site. the u.s. navy, nuclear regulatory commission, and doe each regulate and control various matters relating to nuclear materials we handle. subject to certain requirements and limitations, our contracts with the u.s. navy and doe generally provide for indemnity by the u.s. government for losses resulting from our nuclear operations. for our commercial nuclear operations, we rely primarily on insurance carried by nuclear facility operators for risk mitigation, and we maintain limited insurance coverage for losses in excess of the coverage of facility operators. employees we have approximately 37,000 employees. we are the largest industrial employer in virginia and the largest private employer in mississippi. we employ individuals specializing in 19 crafts and trades, with approximately 5,000 engineers and designers and approximately 2,500 employees with advanced degrees. our workforce contains many third-, fourth-, and fifth-generation employees, and approximately 1,000 employees have 40 or more years of continuous service. employees in our shipbuilding divisions with more than 40 years of service achieve the honor of master shipbuilder. as of december 31, 2016 , there were 911 master shipbuilders at newport news and 298 at ingalls. we employ more than 5,500 veterans across the enterprise. more than 1,600 apprentices are trained by our two shipbuilding units each year in more than 27 crafts and advanced programs. from nuclear pipe welders to senior executives, approximately 4,500 apprentice alumni, 3,000 at newport news and 1,500 at ingalls, continue to work with us. approximately 50% of our employees are covered by a total of eight collective bargaining agreements and two doe site stabilization agreements. newport news has three collective bargaining agreements covering represented employees, one of which covers approximately 50% of newport news employees and expires in july 2017. the remaining two collective bargaining agreements at newport news expire in august 2018 and december 2018. newport news craft workers employed at the kesselring site near saratoga springs, new york are represented under an indefinite doe site agreement. newport news is currently negotiating with the international association of machinist and aerospace workers ("iam"), which was recently determined to be the exclusive representative for approximately 200 newport news radiological control, calibration, and laboratory technicians. ingalls has five collective bargaining agreements covering represented employees, all of which expire in march 2018. approximately 35 technical solutions craft employees at the hanford site near richland, washington are represented under an indefinite doe site stabilization agreement. we believe that our relationship with our employees is satisfactory. available information our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, and current reports on form 8-k, as well as any amendments to those reports, are available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we file them with the securities and exchange commission ("sec"). you can learn more about us by reviewing our sec filings on the investor relations page on our website at www.huntingtoningalls.com. our sec filings are also available at the public reference room of the sec at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. you may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling 1-800-sec-0330. the sec also maintains a website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy statements, and other information about sec registrants, including us. executive officers of the registrant see executive officers of the registrant in item 4a for information about our executive officers. forward-looking statements statements in this annual report on form 10-k and in our other filings with the sec, as well as other statements we may make from time to time, other than statements of historical fact, may constitute "forward-looking 9 statements" within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in these statements. factors that may cause such differences include: changes in government and customer priorities and requirements (including government budgetary constraints, shifts in defense spending, and changes in customer short-range and long-range plans); our ability to estimate our future contract costs and perform our contracts effectively; changes in procurement processes and government regulations and our ability to comply with such requirements; our ability to deliver our products and services at an affordable life cycle cost and compete within our markets; natural and environmental disasters and political instability; adverse economic conditions in the united states and globally; changes in key estimates and assumptions regarding our pension and retiree health care costs; security threats, including cyber security threats, and related disruptions; and other risk factors discussed herein and in our other filings with the sec. there may be other risks and uncertainties that we are unable to predict at this time or that we currently do not expect to have a material adverse effect on our business, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements. you should not place undue reliance on any forward looking statements that we may make. 10 item 1a. risk factors an investment in our common stock or debt securities involves risks and uncertainties. we seek to identify, manage, and mitigate risks to our business, but risk and uncertainty cannot be eliminated or necessarily predicted. you should consider the following factors carefully, in addition to the other information contained in this annual report on form 10-k, before deciding to purchase our securities. we depend heavily on a single customer, the u.s. government, for substantially all of our business, and changes affecting this customer's priorities and spending could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. our business consists primarily of the design, construction, repair, and maintenance of nuclear-powered ships, such as aircraft carriers and submarines, and non-nuclear ships, such as surface combatants and expeditionary warfare and amphibious assault ships, for the u.s. navy and coastal defense surface ships for the u.s. coast guard, as well as the refueling and overhaul and inactivation of nuclear-powered ships for the u.s. navy. substantially all of our revenues in 2016 were derived from products and services ultimately sold to the u.s. government, and we expect this to continue in the foreseeable future. in addition, most of our backlog was u.s. government related as of december 31, 2016 . our u.s. government contracts are subject to various risks, including our customers' political and budgetary constraints and processes, changes in customers' short-range and long-range strategic plans, the timing of contract awards, significant changes in contract scheduling, intense contract and funding competition, difficulty in forecasting costs and schedules for bids on developmental and sophisticated technical work, and contractor suspension or debarment in the event of certain violations of legal or regulatory requirements. any of these factors could affect our ability to do business with the u.s. government, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. significant delays or reductions in appropriations for our programs, changes in customer priorities, and potential contract terminations could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. we are directly dependent upon congressional allocation of defense funds to the u.s. navy and the u.s. coast guard. the funding of u.s. government programs is subject to congressional budget authorization and appropriation processes. for certain programs, congress appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis even though a program may be performed over several fiscal years. consequently, programs are often partially funded initially and receive additional funding only as congress makes additional appropriations. if we incur costs in excess of existing funding on a contract, we may be at risk for recovery of those costs unless and until additional funds are appropriated. we cannot predict the extent to which total funding or funding for individual programs will be included, increased, or reduced as part of the annual budget process, in continuing resolutions, or in individual supplemental appropriations. the impact of congressional actions to reduce the federal debt and resulting pressures on federal spending could adversely affect the total funding of individual ships or funding for individual programs and delay purchasing or payment decisions by our customers. in august 2011, the budget control act (the "bca") established limits on u.s. government discretionary spending, including a reduction of defense spending by approximately $487 billion from fiscal years 2012 through 2021, representing approximately 8% of planned defense spending. the bca also provided that the defense budget would face sequestration cuts of up to an additional $500 billion during that same period to the extent that discretionary spending limits are exceeded, representing approximately 9% of planned defense spending, and $500 billion for non-defense discretionary spending, including the u.s. coast guard. the bipartisan budget act of 2015 (the "bba 2015") provided sequestration relief for fiscal years 2016 and 2017, but sequestration remains in effect for fiscal years 2018 through 2021. long-term uncertainty remains with respect to overall levels of defense spending, and it is likely that u.s. government discretionary spending levels will continue to be subject to significant pressure. for additional information relating to the u.s. defense budget, see the business environment section of management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in item 7. demand for our products and services can also be affected by potential changes in customer priorities due to changes in military strategy and planning. in response to the need for cheaper alternatives and the proliferation of "smart weapons," future strategy reassessments by the dod may result in decreased demand for our shipbuilding 11 programs, including our aircraft carrier programs. for the year ended december 31, 2016, our aircraft carrier programs accounted for approximately 31% of our consolidated revenue. we cannot predict the impact of changes in customer priorities on existing, follow-on, replacement, or future programs. a shift of priorities to programs in which we do not participate and related reductions in funding for or the termination of programs in which we do participate could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. the u.s. government generally has the ability to terminate contracts, in whole or in part, with little to no prior notice, for convenience or for default based on performance. in the event of termination for the u.s. government's convenience, contractors are normally able to recover costs already incurred on the contracts and receive profit on those costs up to the amount authorized under the contract, but not the anticipated profit that would have been earned had the contract been completed. such a termination could also result in the cancellation of future work on the related program. termination resulting from our default can expose us to various liabilities, including excess re-procurement costs, and could negatively affect our ability to compete for future contracts. any contract termination could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. cost growth on fixed price and other contracts that cannot be justified as increases in contract value due from customers exposes us to reduced profitability and to the potential loss of future business. our operating income is adversely affected when we incur certain contract costs or certain increases in contract costs that cannot be billed to customers. cost growth can occur if expenses to complete a contract increase due to technical challenges, manufacturing difficulties, delays, workforce-related issues, or inaccurate initial estimates used for calculating contract costs. reasons may include unavailability or reduced productivity of labor, the nature and complexity of the work performed, the timeliness and availability of materials, major subcontractor performance or product quality issues, performance delays, availability and timing of funding from the customer, and natural disasters. the process of estimating contract costs requires significant judgment and expertise. a significant increase in contract costs from our original cost estimates on one or more programs could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. our ability to recover the costs we incur and realize profits on contracts with our u.s. government customers depends on the type of contract under which we are performing. our u.s. government business is currently performed under firm fixed price ("ffp"), fixed price incentive ("fpi"), cost plus incentive fee ("cpif"), cost plus fixed fee ("cpff"), and cost plus award fee ("cpaf") contracts. under ffp contracts, we retain all cost savings on completed contracts but are responsible for the full amount of all expenditures in excess of the contract price. fpi contracts, on the other hand, are flexibly priced agreements under which cost overruns and underruns to an agreed target cost are shared between the u.s. government and us. the u.s. government is liable for its share of allowable costs up to a ceiling price, and we are responsible for all costs incurred in excess of such ceiling price, typically 125-135% of target cost. our profit on fpi contracts varies according to a contract formula that generally compares the amount of costs incurred to the contract target cost. under cpif, cpff, and cpaf contracts, we are generally required to perform the contract only to the extent the u.s. government makes funds available, and we recover all allowable costs incurred in the performance of the contract. under cpif contracts, our profit is determined by a contractually specified formula that compares allowable incurred costs to the contract target cost, subject in some instances to a maximum or minimum fee percentage. under cpff contracts, the dollar amount of profit received is the same without regard to the amount of costs incurred. under cpaf contracts, the dollar amount of profit received is determined by the award fee provisions in the contract. of ingalls' revenues in 2016 , approximately 91% were generated from fpi contracts, approximately 5% were generated from cpaf contracts, approximately 2% were generated from cpff contracts, and approximately 2% were generated from ffp contracts. of newport news' 2016 revenues, approximately 39% were generated from cpff contracts, approximately 38% were generated from fpi contracts, consisting primarily of submarine construction contracts, approximately 22% were generated from cpif contracts, consisting primarily of aircraft carrier construction and rcoh contracts, and approximately 1% were generated from ffp contracts. of technical solutions' revenues in 2016 , approximately 34% were generated from time and material contracts, approximately 26% were generated from cpff contracts, approximately 26% were generated from ffp contracts, approximately 10% were generated from cpaf contracts, approximately 3% were generated from fpi contracts, and approximately 1% were generated from cpif contracts. to the extent our mix of contract types changes in the future, our ability to recover our costs and realize profits on our contracts could be negatively affected. 12 our earnings and profitability depend upon our ability to perform under contracts. when agreeing to contract terms, we make assumptions and projections about future conditions and events, many of which extend over long periods. our assumptions and projections are based upon our assessments of the productivity and availability of labor, the complexity of the work to be performed, the cost and availability of materials, the impact of delayed performance, and the timing of product deliveries. we may experience significant variances from our assumptions and projections, delays in our contract performance, and variances in the timing of our product deliveries. if our actual experience differs significantly from our assumptions or projections, or, if we incur unanticipated contract costs, the profitability of the related contracts may be adversely affected. our earnings and profitability depend, in part, upon subcontractor performance and raw material and component availability and pricing. we rely on third parties to provide raw materials and major components and sub-systems for our products and to produce hardware elements and sub-assemblies and perform certain services that we provide to our customers, and to do so in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. disruptions and performance problems caused by our suppliers and subcontractors, or a misalignment between our contractual obligations to our customers and our agreements with our subcontractors and suppliers, could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our commitments to customers. our ability to perform our obligations on a timely basis could be adversely affected if one or more of our suppliers or subcontractors are unable to provide the agreed-upon products or materials or perform the agreed-upon services in a timely, compliant and cost-effective manner or otherwise fail to satisfy contractual requirements. the inability of our suppliers or subcontractors to perform could also result in the need for us to transition to alternate parties, which could result in significant incremental cost and delay or the need for us to provide other supplemental means to support our existing suppliers and subcontractors. our costs to manufacture our products can increase over the terms of our contracts. we may be protected from increases in material costs through cost escalation provisions contained in some of our u.s. government contracts, to the extent that such increases are consistent with industry indices. even with these provisions, however, the difference in basis between our actual material costs and these indices may expose us to cost uncertainty. in addition, significant delays in deliveries of key raw materials, which may occur as a result of availability or price, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. in connection with our u.s. government contracts, we are required to procure certain raw materials, components, and parts from supply sources approved by the customer. in some cases, only one supplier may exist for certain components and parts required to manufacture our products. the inability of a sole source supplier to provide a necessary component or part in a timely, compliant, or cost-effective manner could affect our ability to perform our contract. our procurement practices are intended to reduce the likelihood of our procurement of unauthorized or non-compliant parts and materials. we rely on our subcontractors and suppliers to comply with applicable laws and regulations regarding the parts and materials we procure from them, and, in some circumstances, we rely on certifications from our subcontractors and suppliers regarding their compliance. notwithstanding the actions we take to mitigate the risk of receiving parts and materials that fail to meet specifications, subcontractors and suppliers have in the past provided us with non-compliant parts and materials. our inability to procure or significant delay in acquiring necessary raw materials, components, or parts, the failure of our subcontractors or suppliers to comply with applicable laws and regulations, inaccurate certifications from our subcontractors and suppliers regarding their compliance, or noncompliant materials, components, or parts we acquire from our subcontractors and suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. 13 changes to department of defense business practices could have a material effect on dod's procurement process and adversely impact our current programs and potential new awards. the defense industry has experienced, and we expect will continue to experience, significant changes to business practices resulting from an increased focus by dod on affordability, efficiencies, business systems, recovery of costs, and a reprioritization of available defense funds to key areas for future defense spending. the dod continues to adjust its procurement practices, requirements criteria, and source selection methodology in an ongoing effort to reduce costs, gain efficiencies, and enhance program management and control. we expect dod's focus on business practices to impact the contracting environment in which we operate as we and others in the industry adjust our practices to address the dod's initiatives and the reduced level of spending by the dod. depending on how these initiatives are implemented, they could have an impact on our current programs, as well as new business opportunities with the dod. in addition to dod's business practice iniatives, the dcma and dcaa have implemented cost recovery/cost savings initiatives to prioritize efforts to recover costs. as a result of certain of these initiatives, we have experienced and may continue to experience a higher number of audits and/or lengthened periods of time required to close open audits. in addition, the thresholds for certain allowable costs, including compensation costs, have been significantly reduced, and other thresholds are being challenged, debated, and, in certain cases, modified. significant changes to the thresholds for allowable costs could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. our future success depends, in part, on our ability to deliver our products and services at an affordable life cycle cost, requiring us to develop and maintain technologies, facilities, equipment, and a qualified workforce to meet the needs of current and future customers. shipbuilding is a long cycle business, and our success depends on quality, cost, and schedule performance on our contracts. we must develop and maintain the workforce, technologies, facilities, equipment, and financial capacity needed to deliver our products and services at an affordable life cycle cost. if we fail to maintain our competitive position in these areas, we could lose future contracts to our competitors, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. our operating results are heavily dependent upon our ability to attract and retain at competitive costs a sufficient number of engineers and workers with the necessary skills and/or security clearances. at the same time, stable future revenues and costs are important for us to maintain a qualified workforce. development and maintenance of the necessary nuclear expertise and the challenges of hiring and training a qualified workforce can be a limitation on our business. if qualified personnel become scarce, we could experience higher labor, recruiting, or training costs to attract and retain qualified employees, or, if we fail to attract and retain qualified personnel, we could incur difficulties in performing our contracts and attracting new contract awards. competition within our markets or an increase in bid protests may reduce our revenues and market share. u.s. defense spending levels are uncertain and difficult to predict. the reduction in shipbuilding activity by the u.s. navy, as evidenced by the reduction in fleet size from 566 ships in 1989 to 274 ships as of december 31, 2016, has resulted in workforce reductions in the industry but little infrastructure consolidation. the general result has been fewer contracts awarded to the same fixed number of shipyards. six major private united states shipyards, three of which we own, plus many other smaller private shipyards compete for contracts to construct, overhaul, repair, and convert naval vessels. additionally, our products, such as aircraft carriers, submarines, amphibious assault ships, surface combatants, and other ships, compete for funding with each other, as well as with other defense products and services. we expect competition for future shipbuilding programs to be intense. we compete with another large defense contractor for construction contracts to build surface combatants and submarines. we also recently competed with the same contractor for the first time to build a large deck amphibious ship, which was awarded to us. we may in the future compete with the same and other defense contractors to build other ships for which we are currently the sole source, including expeditionary warfare and other amphibious assault ships. moreover, reductions in u.s. defense spending that reduce the demand for the types of ships we build and services we provide increase our risk exposure to market competition. if we are unable to continue to compete successfully against our current or future competitors, we may experience lower revenues and market share, which could negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. 14 although we are the only company currently capable of refueling nuclear-powered aircraft carriers, two existing u.s. government-owned shipyards may be able to refuel nuclear-powered aircraft carriers if substantial investments in facilities, personnel, and training were made. u.s. government-owned shipyards currently engage in the refueling, overhaul, and inactivation of los angeles class (ssn 688) submarines and are capable of repairing and overhauling non-nuclear ships. if a u.s. government-owned shipyard were to become capable and engaged in the refueling of nuclear-powered aircraft carriers, our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows could be adversely affected. we also compete in the shipbuilding engineering, planning, and design market with other companies that provide engineering support services. such competition increases the risk that we may not be the successful bidder on future u.s. navy engineering proposals, including aircraft carrier research and development, submarine design, and surface combatant and amphibious assault ship program contracts. our competitive environment is also affected by bid protests from unsuccessful bidders on new program awards. as the competitive environment intensifies, the number of bid protests may increase. bid protests can result in an award decision being overturned, requiring a re-bid of the contract. even when a bid protest does not result in a re-bid, resolution of the matter typically extends the time until contract performance can begin, which may reduce our earnings in the period in which the contract would otherwise be performed. as a u.s. government contractor, we are heavily regulated and could be adversely affected by changes in regulations or negative findings from a u.s. government audit or investigation. as a u.s. government contractor, we must comply with significant regulatory requirements, including those relating to procurement, cyber security, and nuclear operations. government contracting requirements increase our contract performance and compliance costs and risks and change on a consistent basis. in addition, our nuclear operations are subject to an enhanced regulatory environment, which results in increased performance and compliance efforts and costs. new laws, regulations, or procurement requirements, or changes to existing ones (including, for example, regulations related to recovery of compensation costs, cyber security, counterfeit parts, specialty metals, and conflict minerals), can increase our performance and compliance costs and risks and reduce our profitability. we operate in a heavily regulated environment and are routinely audited and reviewed by the u.s. government and its various agencies, including the u.s. navy's supervisor of shipbuilding, the dcaa, and the dcma. these agencies review our contract performance, cost structures, and compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and standards, as well as the adequacy of our systems and processes relative to u.s. government requirements. if an audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to administrative, civil, or criminal proceedings, which could result in fines, penalties, repayments, or compensatory, treble, or other damages. certain u.s. government findings against a contractor can also lead to suspension or debarment from future u.s. government contracts or the loss of export privileges . allegations of impropriety can also cause us significant reputational harm. whether or not illegal activities are alleged, the u.s. government has the ability to decrease or withhold contract payments if it determines significant deficiencies exist in business systems subject to its review. the u.s. government has, in certain instances, withheld contract payments upon its assessment that deficiencies exist with one or more of our business systems. when appropriate, we will modify our affected business systems to address the u.s. government's concerns. the u.s. government has, from time to time, recommended that certain of our contract prices be reduced, or that certain costs allocated to our contracts be disallowed. these recommendations sometimes involve substantial dollar amounts. in response to u.s. government audits, investigations, and inquiries, we have also in the past made adjustments to our contract prices and the costs allocated to our government contracts. such audits, investigations, and inquiries may result in future reductions of our contract prices. any costs we incur that are determined to be unallowable or improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be recovered or must be refunded if previously reimbursed. we must comply with a variety of federal laws and regulations, including the far, the truth in negotiations act, the false claims act, the procurement integrity act, the international traffic in arms regulations promulgated under the arms export control act, the close the contractor fraud loophole act, the foreign corrupt practices act, and cost accounting standards, and we are subject, from time to time, to u.s. government investigations relating to our operations. if we are convicted or otherwise found to have engaged in illegal activities, or are found not to have acted responsibly as defined by the law, we may be subject to reductions in contract values, contract modifications 15 or terminations, penalties, fines, repayments, compensatory, treble, or other damages, or suspension or debarment, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. many of our contracts contain performance obligations that require innovative design capabilities or state-of-the-art manufacturing expertise, include technological complexity, or are dependent upon factors not wholly within our control, and failure to meet these obligations could adversely affect our profitability and future prospects. we design, develop, and manufacture products and provide services applied by our customers in a variety of environments. problems and delays in product development or with delivery of subcontractor components or services as a result of issues with respect to design, technology, licensing and intellectual property rights, labor, learning curve assumptions, or materials and parts could prevent us from satisfying contractual requirements. first-in-class ships, also known as lead ships, usually include new technology that is supplied by the u.s. navy, other contractors, or us. problems developing these new technologies or design changes in the construction process can lead to delays in the design schedule for construction. the risks associated with new technology or mid-construction design changes can both increase the cost of a ship and delay delivery. late delivery of information can also cause inefficiencies in the construction process, increase costs, and put the delivery schedule at risk, which could adversely affect our profitability and future prospects. our products cannot always be tested and proven and are otherwise subject to unforeseen problems, including premature failure of products that cannot be accessed for repair or replacement, substandard quality or workmanship, and unplanned degradation of product performance. these failures could result in loss of life or property and could negatively affect our results of operations by causing unanticipated expenses not covered by insurance or indemnification from the customer, diversion of management focus to respond to unforeseen problems, loss of follow-on work, and, in the case of certain contracts, repayment to the customer of contract costs and fee payments previously received. we periodically experience quality issues with respect to products and services that we sell to our u.s. government customers. these issues can and have required significant resources to analyze the source of the deficiencies and implement corrective actions. we may discover quality issues in the future related to our products and services that require analysis and corrective action. such issues and our responses and corrective actions could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. we may not recover all of our costs related to the wind down of shipbuilding at our avondale shipyard. in october 2014, we ceased shipbuilding construction operations at our avondale, louisiana shipyard and consolidated all ingalls shipbuilding into our pascagoula shipyard. in connection with and as a result of the wind down of shipbuilding at avondale, we have incurred substantial restructuring costs and asset write-downs, which we currently estimate at $276 million . we have engaged in communications and negotiations with the u.s. navy since 2010 regarding the amount and recovery of our restructuring and shutdown costs. in june 2016, we filed a request with the contracting officer seeking a final decision regarding our recovery of the avondale restructuring and shutdown costs. in december 2016, the contracting officer denied our claim, on the purported basis that we had not adequately shown savings and other benefits that would accrue to the u.s. government from the closing of avondale and consolidation of ingalls shipbuilding to the pascagoula facility. while we intend to pursue our claim pursuant to the contract disputes act, any inability to recover our restructuring expenses substantially in accordance with our cost recovery expectations could result in a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. in addition to restructuring costs and asset write-downs associated with winding down shipbuilding operations at avondale, we may incur environmental costs in connection with the wind down. such costs, which we cannot reasonably estimate at this time, could be significant. the actual restructuring expenses we have and may incur in the future in connection with our wind down of avondale, including potential environmental costs, may be greater than our current estimate. 16 we use estimates when accounting for contracts. changes in estimates could affect our profitability and our overall financial position. contract accounting requires judgment relative to assessing risks, estimating contract revenues and costs, and making assumptions regarding schedule and technical issues. the size and nature of many of our contracts make the estimation of total revenues and costs at completion complicated and subject to many variables. for new shipbuilding programs, we estimate, negotiate, and contract for construction of ships that are not completely designed. assessing risks, estimating contract revenues and costs, and making assumptions regarding schedule and technical issues for these ships are subject to the variability of the final ship design and evolving scope of work. our assumptions on ship contracts include the length of time to complete the contract, because total costs include expected increases in wages and material prices. similarly, our assumptions include the future impact of our efficiency initiatives and cost reduction efforts. we consider incentives, awards, and penalties related to contract performance when we estimate revenues and profit rates, and we record them when sufficient information exists to assess anticipated contract performance. the judgment and estimation processes described above are significant to our contract accounting, and materially different amounts can be generated if different assumptions are used or if actual events differ from our assumptions. future changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances, or estimates may have a material adverse effect on our future financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. see critical accounting policies, estimates, and judgments in item 7. our business is subject to disruption caused by natural disasters, environmental disasters, and other events that could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. we have significant operations located in regions of the united states that have been and may in the future be exposed to damaging storms, such as hurricanes, floods, and environmental disasters, such as oil spills. the damage and disruption resulting from natural and environmental disasters may be significant. natural disasters can disrupt our facilities, systems, or projects, which can interrupt operational processes and performance on our contracts. should insurance or other risk transfer mechanisms be unavailable or insufficient to recover material costs associated with natural or environmental disasters, we could experience a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. see our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover all of our significant risks or our insurers may deny coverage of material losses we incur, which could adversely affect our profitability and financial position. natural disasters can disrupt our workforce, electrical and other power distribution networks, computer and internet operations and accessibility, and the critical industrial infrastructure needed for normal business operations. these disruptions could adversely affect our contract performance and financial results. environmental disasters, particularly oil spills in waterways and bodies of water used for the transport and testing of our ships, can disrupt the timing of performance under our contracts with the u.s. navy and the u.s. coast guard. our suppliers and subcontractors are also subject to natural and environmental disasters that could affect their ability to deliver products or services or otherwise perform their contracts. performance failures by our subcontractors due to natural or environmental disasters may adversely affect our ability to perform our contracts, which could reduce our profitability in the event damages or other costs are not recoverable from the subcontractor, the customer, or insurers. such events could also result in a termination of the prime contract and have an adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts. in addition to the types of events described above, operation of our facilities may be disrupted by civil unrest, acts of sabotage or terrorism, and other local security concerns. such events may require us to incur greater costs for security or to shut down operations for a period of time. our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover all of our significant risks or our insurers may deny coverage of material losses we incur, which could adversely affect our profitability and financial position. we seek to negotiate and enter into insurance agreements to cover our significant risks and potential liabilities, including, among others, natural disasters, product liability, and business interruption resulting from an insured property loss. in some circumstances, we may be indemnified for losses by the u.s. government, subject to the availability of appropriated funds. not every risk or liability can be protected by insurance, and, for insurable risks, 17 the limits of coverage reasonably obtainable in the market may not be sufficient to cover the full amount of actual losses or liabilities incurred, including, for example, in the case of a catastrophic hurricane. in addition, the nature of our business makes it difficult to quantify the disruptive impact of such events. such limitations on the availability of insurance coverage may result in us bearing substantial costs for uninsured losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. even in cases where we have insurance coverage, disputes with insurance carriers over coverage may affect the timing of cash flows, and, if litigation with the insurance carrier becomes necessary, an outcome unfavorable to us may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. our business could suffer if we are unsuccessful in negotiating new collective bargaining agreements. approximately 50% of our employees are covered by a total of eight collective bargaining agreements and two doe site stabilization agreements. newport news has three collective bargaining agreements covering represented employees, one of which covers approximately 50% of newport news employees and expires in july 2017. the remaining two collective bargaining agreements at newport news expire in august 2018 and december 2018. newport news craft workers employed at the kesselring site near saratoga springs, new york are represented under an indefinite doe site agreement. newport news is currently negotiating with iam, which was recently determined to be the exclusive representative for approximately 200 newport news radiological control, calibration, and laboratory technicians. ingalls has five collective bargaining agreements covering represented employees, all of which expire in march 2018. approximately 35 technical solutions craft employees at the hanford site near richland, washington are represented under an indefinite doe site stabilization agreement. collective bargaining agreements generally expire after three to five years, and we negotiate successor agreements as each of our collective bargaining agreements expires. while we believe we maintain good relationships with our represented workers, it is possible that we may experience difficulties renegotiating expiring collective bargaining agreements. we have, in the past, experienced work stoppages, strikes, and other labor disruptions associated with the collective bargaining of new labor agreements. if we experience such events in the future, we could incur additional expenses or work delays that could adversely affect programs served by employees who are covered by collective bargaining agreements. changes in key estimates and assumptions, such as discount rates and assumed long-term returns on assets, actual investment returns on our pension plan assets, and legislative and regulatory actions could significantly affect our earnings, equity, and contributions to our defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans in future periods. our pension and retiree health care costs are dependent upon significant judgment regarding various estimates and assumptions, particularly with respect to the discount rate and expected long-term rates of return on plan assets. changes to these estimates and assumptions could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. differences between actual investment returns and our assumed long-term returns on assets will result in future changes in pension expense and the funded status of our plans, and could increase future funding of the plans. timing differences exist among the accrual of pension costs under accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america ("gaap"), pension funding requirements, and the recovery of pension costs that are allowable under our government contracts. such timing differences could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. on december 27, 2011, the u.s. cost accounting standards ("cas") board issued its final cas harmonization rule. the rule impacted pension costs on contracts beginning in 2013 and was effective for forward pricing purposes for contracts negotiated on or after february 27, 2012. although we believe contractors are entitled to an equitable adjustment on cas-covered contracts awarded prior to the february 27, 2012 effective date, the application of this rule could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows if we are unable to successfully recover such equitable adjustment. for a complete discussion regarding how our consolidated financial statements can be affected by pension plan accounting policies and regulatory changes, see critical accounting policies, estimates, and judgments in item 7. 18 unforeseen environmental costs could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. our operations are subject to and affected by a variety of existing federal, state, and local environmental protection laws and regulations. in addition, we could be affected by future laws or regulations, including those imposed in response to concerns over climate change, other aspects of the environment, or natural resources. we expect to incur future capital and operating costs to comply with current and future environmental laws and regulations, and such costs could be substantial, depending on the future proliferation of environmental rules and regulations and the extent to which we discover currently unknown environmental conditions. shipbuilding operations require the use of hazardous materials. our shipyards also generate significant quantities of wastewater, which we treat before discharging pursuant to various permits. to handle these materials, our shipyards have an extensive network of aboveground and underground storage tanks, some of which have leaked and required remediation in the past. in addition, our handling of hazardous materials has sometimes resulted in spills in our shipyards and occasionally in adjacent rivers and waterways in which we operate. our shipyards maintain extensive waste handling programs that we periodically modify, consistent with changes in applicable laws and regulations. see environmental, health and safety in item 1. various federal, state, and local environmental laws and regulations impose restrictions on the discharge of pollutants into the environment and establish standards for the transportation, storage, and disposal of toxic and hazardous wastes. substantial fines, penalties, and criminal sanctions may be imposed for noncompliance, and certain environmental laws impose joint and several "strict liability" for remediation of spills and releases of oil and hazardous substances. such laws and regulations render a party liable for environmental cleanup and remediation costs and damage without regard to negligence or fault on the part of such party and could expose us to liability for the conduct of or conditions caused by third parties. in addition to fines, penalties, and criminal sanctions, environmental laws and regulations may require the installation of costly pollution control equipment or operational changes to limit pollution emissions or discharges and/or to decrease the likelihood of accidental hazardous material releases. we have incurred, and expect to incur in the future, costs to comply with federal and state environmental laws and regulations related to the cleanup of pollutants released into the environment. in addition, if we are found to be in violation of the clean air act or the clean water act, the facility or facilities involved in the violation could be placed by the epa on the "excluded parties list" maintained by the general services administration, which would continue until the epa concluded that the cause of the violation was cured. facilities on the "excluded parties list" are prohibited from working on any u.s. government contract. the adoption of new environmental laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, imposition of new cleanup requirements, discovery of previously unknown or more extensive contamination, litigation involving environmental impacts, our inability to recover related costs under our government contracts, or the financial insolvency of other responsible parties could cause us to incur costs that could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. we ceased shipbuilding construction at our avondale, louisiana shipyard in 2014. our wind down of operations at this shipyard may result in environmental costs, the amount of which we cannot currently estimate. such costs could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. market volatility and adverse capital or credit market conditions may affect our ability to access cost-effective sources of funding and may expose us to risks associated with the financial viability of suppliers and subcontractors and the ability of counterparties to perform on financial agreements. the financial markets can experience high levels of volatility and disruption, reducing the availability of credit for certain issuers. we may access these markets from time to time to support certain business activities, including funding acquisitions and capital expansion projects and refinancing existing indebtedness. we also access these markets to obtain credit support for our workers' compensation self-insurance program and arrange for letters of credit. a number of factors could cause us to incur higher borrowing costs and to have greater difficulty accessing public and private markets for debt. these factors include disruptions or declines in the global capital markets and/or a decline in our financial performance, outlook, or credit ratings. the occurrence of any or all of these events may 19 adversely affect our ability to fund our operations, meet contractual or financing commitments, make future investments or desirable acquisitions, or respond to competitive challenges. tightening credit markets could also adversely affect our suppliers' and subcontractors' ability to obtain financing. delays in suppliers' or subcontractors' ability to obtain financing, or the unavailability of financing, could negatively affect their ability to perform their contracts with us and cause our inability to perform our contracts. the inability of our suppliers and subcontractors to obtain financing could also result in the need for us to transition to alternate suppliers and subcontractors, which could result in significant incremental costs and delays. we have existing agreements with counterparties in the financial markets, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, and other institutional parties, and may in the future enter into agreements with such parties. these transactions expose us to potential credit risk in the event of default of a counterparty. in addition, our credit risk may be increased when collateral held by us to secure performance of a counterparty cannot be liquidated upon a sale or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount due to us under the related contract. our reputation and our ability to do business may be impacted by the improper conduct of employees, agents, or business partners. our compliance program includes detailed compliance plans and related compliance controls, policies, procedures, and training designed to prevent and detect misconduct by employees, agents, business partners, and others working on our behalf, including suppliers and subcontractors, that would violate the laws of the jurisdictions in which we operate, including laws governing payments to government officials, the protection of export controlled or classified information, cost accounting and billing, competition, and data privacy. we may not, however, prevent all such misconduct committed by our employees, agents, business partners, and others working on our behalf, including suppliers and subcontractors, and the risk of improper conduct may be expected to increase as we expand into commercial markets and foreign jurisdictions. any improper actions by our employees, agents, business partners, and others working on our behalf, including suppliers and subcontractors, could subject us to administrative, civil, or criminal investigations and monetary and non-monetary penalties, including suspension or debarment, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. any such improper actions could also cause us significant reputational harm. our business could be negatively impacted by security threats, including cyber security threats, and related disruptions. as a defense contractor, we rely on our information technology infrastructure to process, transmit, and store electronic information, including classified and other sensitive information of the u.s. government. while we maintain stringent information security policies and protocols, we face cyber security and other security threats to our information technology infrastructure, including threats to our and the u.s. government's proprietary and classified information. we face unauthorized and unlawful attempts to gain access to our information technology infrastructure, including coordinated attacks from groups of hackers, and we could also face attempts to gain physical access to classified and other sensitive information located at our facilities. our information technology infrastructure is critical to the efficient operation of our business and essential to our ability to perform day-to-day operations. breaches of our information technology infrastructure or physical facilities could cause us to incur significant recovery and restoration expenses; degrade performance on existing contracts; and expose us to reputational damage, potential liability, or the loss of current or future contracts, including work on sensitive or classified systems for the u.s. government, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. in addition, our suppliers, subcontractors, and other business partners face cyber security and other security threats. although we work cooperatively with our customers, suppliers, subcontractors, and other business partners to seek to minimize the impact of cyber threats, other security threats, or business disruptions, we must rely on the safeguards put in place by these entities, which may affect the security of our information. these entities have varying levels of cyber security expertise and safeguards, and their relationships with u.s. government contractors may increase the likelihood that they are targeted by the same cyber security threats we face. 20 our nuclear operations subject us to various environmental, regulatory, financial, and other risks. the design, construction, refueling and overhaul, repair, and inactivation of nuclear-powered aircraft carriers and nuclear-powered submarines, our nuclear facilities used to support such activities, our nuclear operations at doe sites, and our activities in the commercial nuclear market subject us to various risks, including: potential liabilities relating to harmful effects on the environment and human health resulting from nuclear operations and the storage, handling, and disposal of radioactive materials, including nuclear assemblies and their components; unplanned expenditures relating to maintenance, operation, security, and repair, including repairs required by the u.s. navy, the nuclear regulatory commission, or the doe; reputational harm; potential liabilities arising out of a nuclear incident whether or not it is within our control; and regulatory noncompliance and loss of authorizations or indemnifications necessary for our operations. failure to properly handle nuclear materials could pose a health risk to humans or wildlife and could cause personal injury and property damage, including environmental contamination. if a nuclear accident were to occur, its severity could be significantly affected by the volume of the materials and the speed of corrective action taken by us and emergency response personnel, as well as other factors beyond our control, such as weather and wind conditions. actions we might take in response to an accident could result in significant costs. our nuclear operations are subject to various safety related requirements imposed by the u.s. navy, doe, and nuclear regulatory commission. in the event of noncompliance, these agencies may increase regulatory oversight, impose fines, or shut down our operations, depending on their assessment of the severity of the noncompliance. in addition, new or revised security and safety requirements imposed by the u.s. navy, doe, and nuclear regulatory commission could necessitate substantial capital and other expenditures. subject to certain requirements and limitations, our contracts with the u.s. navy and doe generally provide for indemnity by the u.s. government for costs arising out of or resulting from our nuclear operations. we may not, however, be indemnified for all liabilities we may incur in connection with our nuclear operations. to mitigate risks related to our commercial nuclear operations, we rely primarily on insurance carried by nuclear facility operators and our own limited insurance for losses in excess of the coverage of facility operators. such insurance, however, may not be sufficient to cover our costs in the event of an accident or business interruption relating to our commercial nuclear operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. changes in future business conditions could cause business investments, recorded goodwill, and/or purchased intangible assets to become impaired, resulting in substantial losses and write-downs that would reduce our operating income. as part of our business strategy, we acquire non-controlling and controlling interests in businesses. we make acquisitions and investments following careful analysis and due diligence processes designed to achieve a desired return or strategic objective. business acquisitions generally involve estimates, assumptions, and judgments to determine acquisition prices, which prices are allocated among acquired assets, including goodwill, based upon fair market values. notwithstanding our analyses, due diligence processes, and business integration efforts, actual operating results of acquired businesses may vary significantly from initial estimates. in such events, we may be required to write down our carrying value of the related goodwill and/or purchased intangible assets. in addition, declines in the trading price of our common stock or the market as a whole can result in goodwill and/or purchased intangible asset impairment charges. as of december 31, 2016 , goodwill and purchased intangible assets generated from prior business acquisitions accounted for approximately 19% and 9% , respectively, of our total assets. we evaluate goodwill values for impairment annually on november 30, or when evidence of potential impairment exists. we also evaluate the values of purchased intangible assets when evidence of potential impairment exists. the impairment tests are based on several factors requiring judgment. as a general matter, a significant decrease in expected cash flows or changes in market conditions may indicate potential impairment of recorded goodwill or purchased intangible assets. 21 in the fourth quarter of 2015, the second quarter of 2015, and the fourth quarter of 2014, we recorded goodwill impairment charges at our technical solutions segment of $16 million , $59 million , and $47 million , respectively. the oil and gas reporting unit within our technical solutions segment is sensitive to developments in the oil and gas industry. the goodwill impairment charges were primarily driven by continuing declines in oil prices and the resulting decreases in industry market multiples. in the fourth quarter of 2015, we also recorded an intangible asset impairment of $27 million at our technical solutions segment as a result of declining market conditions and updated expectations. adverse equity market conditions that result in a decline in market multiples and the trading price of our common stock, or other events, such as reductions in future contract awards or significant adverse changes in our operating margins or operating results of acquired businesses that vary significantly from projected results on which purchase prices are based, could result in an impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets. any such impairments that result in us recording additional goodwill impairment charges could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. unanticipated changes in our tax provisions or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability and cash flow. we are subject to income taxes in various jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of business, the ultimate tax determination of many of our transactions and calculations is uncertain. in addition, timing differences in the recognition of contract income for financial statement purposes and for income tax purposes can cause uncertainty with respect to the timing of income tax payments, which can have a significant impact on cash flow in a particular period. changes in applicable income tax laws and regulations, or their interpretation, could result in higher or lower income tax rates or changes in the taxability of certain transactions or the deductibility of certain expenses, thereby affecting our income tax expense and profitability. both the incoming administration and the new congress have offered plans to reform the federal income tax code, along with other significant policy initiatives, some of which could have a material impact on the company. in addition, the final results of any tax audits or related litigation could be materially different from our related historical income tax provisions and accruals. changes in our tax rate as a result of changes in our overall profitability, changes in tax legislation, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in differences between financial statement income and taxable income, the examination of previously filed tax returns by taxing authorities, and continuing assessments of our tax exposures can also impact our tax liabilities and affect our income tax expense, profitability, and cash flow. we conduct a portion of our operations through joint ventures and strategic alliances. we may have limited control over such arrangements and experience returns that are not proportional to the risks and resources we contribute. we conduct a portion of our operations through joint ventures with business partners. in any joint venture arrangement, differences in views among the joint venture participants may result in delayed decisions or in failures to reach agreement on major issues. we and our joint venture partners may, in certain instances, fail to reach agreement on significant decisions on a timely basis, or at all. we also cannot control the actions of our joint venture partners, including any non-performance, default, or bankruptcy of our joint venture partners, and we typically share liability or have joint and/or several liability with our joint venture partners for joint venture matters. any of these factors could potentially have a material adverse effect on our joint venture operations and the profitability of our joint ventures. in joint ventures in which we hold a minority interest, we have limited control over many decisions relating to joint venture operations and internal controls relating to operations. these joint ventures may not be subject to the same requirements regarding internal controls and internal control reporting that apply to us. as a result, internal control issues may arise that could have a material adverse effect on the joint venture. in addition, in order to establish or preserve relationships with our joint venture partners, we may agree to assume risks and contribute resources that are proportionately greater than the returns we expect to receive in the related joint venture. such agreements may reduce our income and returns on these investments compared to what we would have received if our assumed risks and contributed resources were proportionate to our returns. 22 strategic acquisitions and investments we pursue involve risks and uncertainties. as part of our business strategy, we review, evaluate, and consider potential acquisitions and investments. in evaluating such transactions, we make difficult judgments regarding the value of business opportunities, technologies, and other assets, the risks and costs of potential liabilities, and the future prospects of business opportunities. in addition, acquisitions and investments involve other risks and uncertainties, including the difficulty of integrating acquired businesses, challenges achieving strategic objectives and other benefits anticipated from acquisitions or investments, the diversion of management attention and resources from our existing operations and other initiatives, the potential impairment of acquired assets, and the potential loss of key employees of acquired businesses. our financial results, business, and future prospects could be adversely affected by unanticipated performance issues at acquired businesses, transaction-related charges, unexpected liabilities, amortization of expenses related to purchased intangible assets, and charges for impairments of purchased intangible assets. we are subject to various claims and litigation that could ultimately be resolved against us, requiring material future cash payments and/or future material charges against our operating income, materially impairing our financial position or cash flows. the size, nature, and complexity of our business make it highly susceptible to claims and litigation. we are subject to various administrative, civil, and criminal litigation, environmental claims, income tax matters, compliance matters, claims, and investigations, which could divert financial and management resources and result in fines, penalties, compensatory, treble or other damages, or nonmonetary relief. government regulations also provide that certain allegations against a contractor may lead to suspension or debarment from government contracts or suspension of export privileges. suspension or debarment could have a material adverse effect on us because of our reliance on government contracts and authorizations. litigation, claims, or investigations, if ultimately resolved against us, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. any litigation, claim, or investigation, even if fully indemnified or insured, could negatively impact our reputation among our customers and the public and make it more difficult for us to compete effectively or obtain adequate insurance in the future. we may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, which could affect our ability to compete. we own patents, trademarks, copyrights, and other forms of intellectual property related to our business, and we license intellectual property rights to and from third parties. the u.s. government generally receives non-exclusive licenses to certain intellectual property we develop in the performance of u.s. government contracts, and the u.s. government may use or authorize others to use such intellectual property. more recently, the u.s. government has asserted or sought to obtain more extensive rights in intellectual property associated with its contracts. the u.s. government's efforts could result in a decrease in our ability to control the use of certain of our intellectual property rights in a government contracting environment. our intellectual property is also subject to challenge, invalidation, misappropriation, or circumvention by third parties. we also rely upon proprietary technology, information, processes, and know-how that are not protected by patents. we seek to protect this information through trade secret or confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, subcontractors, and other parties, as well as through other measures. these agreements and other measures may not, however, provide meaningful protection for our unpatented proprietary information. in the event of infringement of our intellectual property rights, breach of a confidentiality agreement, or unauthorized disclosure of proprietary information, we may not have adequate legal remedies to maintain our rights in our intellectual property. litigation to determine the scope of our rights, even if successful, could be costly and a diversion of management's attention from other aspects of our business. in addition, trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. if we are unable adequately to protect our intellectual property rights, our business could be adversely affected. we have the right to use certain intellectual property licensed to us by third parties. in instances where third parties have licensed to us the right to use their intellectual property, we may be unable in the future to secure the necessary licenses to use such intellectual property on commercially reasonable terms. 23 our debt exposes us to certain risks. as of december 31, 2016, we had $1,278 million of debt under senior notes and $1,225 million of additional borrowing capacity under our second amended and restated credit agreement (the amended credit facility ). our current level of debt could have important consequences, including: increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic or industry conditions; requiring us to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, strategic initiatives, and general corporate purposes; increasing our vulnerability to, and limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or the industries in which we operate; exposing us to the risk of higher interest rates, to the extent borrowings under our amended credit facility are subject to variable rates of interest; placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and limiting our ability to borrow additional funds. because we use a portion of our cash flow from operations to service our debt, we could fail to generate sufficient cash to fund our liquidity needs or fail to satisfy the restrictive covenants and borrowing limitations to which we are subject under our various debt arrangements. moreover, we have significant additional borrowing capacity and may be able to incur significant additional debt in the future. to the extent new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we face could be increased. restrictive covenants in the indentures governing our senior notes and our amended credit facility may restrict our ability to pursue our business strategies. the terms of our amended credit facility limit our ability, among other things, to: incur additional debt; pay dividends or make other distributions on, or repurchase or redeem, our stock; prepay, redeem, or repurchase certain of our debt; make investments; consolidate, merge, sell, or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and incur liens. in addition, the terms of our amended credit facility require us to maintain a maximum leverage ratio. the indentures governing our two tranches of 5.000% senior notes limit our ability, among other things, to: consolidate, merge, sell, or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and incur liens. these covenants may restrict our financial flexibility, limit our strategic initiatives, restrict our ability to grow, or limit our ability to respond to competitive changes. these covenants may affect how we conduct our business, and we may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or capital needs. these covenants may, therefore, affect our ability to successfully execute our business strategy and operate our business. anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and delaware law, as well as regulatory requirements, could delay or prevent a change in control. certain provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws may delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that stockholders may consider favorable. for example, our restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws currently provide for a partially classified board of directors, require advance notice for stockholder proposals and director nominations, and authorize our board of directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock. these provisions may discourage acquisition proposals or delay or prevent a change in control, which could harm our stock price. delaware law also imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock and us. 24 our nuclear shipbuilding operations are considered vitally important to the u.s. navy. consequently, the u.s. navy requires us to include in our contracts with the navy provisions regarding notice and approval rights in the event of a change of control of our nuclear shipbuilding operations and regarding the navy's obligations to indemnify us for losses relating to our nuclear operations for the navy. such provisions require us to provide the u.s. navy with notice of any potential change of control of our nuclear shipbuilding operations and obtain the navy's consent for transferring certain related licenses, to facilitate the navy's ability to ensure that a potential buyer would continue to conduct our operations in a satisfactory manner. we have included such provisions in solicitations for future u.s. navy nuclear work, and we expect them to be included in future contracts with the navy for nuclear work. provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and our restated bylaws and our existing contracts with the u.s. navy may have the effect of discouraging, delaying, or preventing a change of control of our company that may be beneficial to our stockholders. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 61 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to certain market risks, primarily related to interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. interest rates - our financial instruments potentially subject to interest rate risk include floating rate borrowings under our amended credit facility. our $1,250 million revolving facility under our amended credit facility was undrawn as of december 31, 2016 . foreign currency - we currently have, and in the future may enter into, foreign currency forward contracts to manage foreign currency exchange rate risk related to payments to suppliers denominated in foreign currencies. as of december 31, 2016 , the fair values of our outstanding foreign currency forward contracts were not significant. 61risk factors 11 we operate in a heavily regulated environment and are routinely audited and reviewed by the u.s. government and its agencies, including the u.s. navy's supervisor of shipbuilding, the defense contract audit agency ("dcaa"), and the defense contract management agency ("dcma"). these agencies evaluate our contract performance, cost structures, and compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and standards, as well as the adequacy of our business systems and processes relative to u.s. government requirements. business systems subject to audit or review include our accounting systems, purchasing systems, billing systems, property management and control systems, cost estimating systems, earned value management systems, compensation systems, and management information systems. if an audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to administrative, civil, or criminal proceedings, which could result in fines, penalties, repayments, or compensatory, treble, or other damages. certain u.s. government findings against a contractor can also lead to suspension or debarment from future u.s. government contracts or the loss of export privileges . in addition, any costs we incur that are determined to be unallowable or improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be recovered or must be refunded if already reimbursed. the u.s. government has the ability to decrease or withhold contract payments if it determines significant deficiencies exist in business systems subject to its review. in the past, the u.s. government has, in certain instances, withheld contract payments upon its assessment that significant deficiencies existed with one or more of our business systems. when appropriate, we must modify our affected business systems to address the u.s. government's determinations. the u.s. government generally has the ability to terminate contracts, in whole or in part, with little or no prior notice, for convenience or for default based on performance. in the event of termination of a contract for convenience, a contractor is normally able to recover costs already incurred on the contract and receive profit on those costs up to the amount authorized under the contract, but not the anticipated profit that would have been earned had the contract been completed. such a termination could also result in the cancellation of future work on 6 the related program. termination resulting from our default could expose us to various liabilities, including excess reprocurement costs, and could have a material effect on our ability to compete for future contracts. government contractors must comply with significant regulatory requirements, including those related to procurement. our contracts with the u.s. government may result in requests for equitable adjustments ("reas"), which represent requests for the u.s. government to make appropriate adjustments to contract terms, including pricing, delivery schedule, technical requirements, or other affected terms, due to changes in the original contract requirements and resulting delays and disruption in contract performance for which the u.s. government is responsible. we prepare, submit, and negotiate reas in the ordinary course of business, and large reas are not uncommon at the conclusion of both new construction and rcoh activities. such reas are not considered claims under the contract disputes act of 1978, although they may be converted to such claims if good faith negotiations to resolve the reas are not satisfactory. in cases where there are multiple suppliers, contracts for the construction and conversion of u.s. navy ships and submarines are generally subject to competitive bidding. in evaluating proposed prices, the u.s. navy sometimes requires that each bidder submit information on pricing, estimated costs of completion, and anticipated profit margins to enable the navy to assess cost realism. the u.s. navy uses this information and other data to determine an estimated cost for each bidder. under u.s. government regulations, certain costs, including certain financing costs and marketing expenses, are not allowable contract costs and, therefore, are not recoverable. the u.s. government also regulates the methods by which all allowable costs, including overhead, are allocated to government contracts. our business, our contracts with various agencies of the u.s. government, and our subcontracts with other prime contractors are subject to a variety of laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, the federal acquisition regulation ("far"), the truth in negotiations act, the procurement integrity act, the false claims act, cost accounting standards, the international traffic in arms regulations promulgated under the arms export control act, the close the contractor fraud loophole act, and the foreign corrupt practices act. a noncompliance determination by a government agency may result in reductions in contract values, contract modifications or terminations, penalties, fines, repayments, compensatory, treble, or other damages, or suspension or debarment. competition in our primary business of designing, building, overhauling, and repairing military ships, we primarily compete with general dynamics and, to a lesser extent, smaller shipyards, one or more of which could team with a large defense contractor. intense competition related to programs, resources, and funding, and long operating cycles are key characteristics of both our business and the shipbuilding defense industry in general. it is common industry practice to share work on major programs among a number of companies. a company competing to be a prime contractor may, upon ultimate award of the contract to another party, become a subcontractor for the prime contracting party. it is not uncommon to compete for a contract award with a peer company and, simultaneously, perform as a supplier to or a customer of such competitor on other contracts. the nature of major defense programs, conducted under binding long-term contracts, allows companies that perform well to benefit from a level of program continuity not common in many industries. we believe we are well-positioned in our markets. because we are the only company currently capable of building, refueling, and inactivating the u.s. navy's nuclear-powered aircraft carriers, we believe we are in a strong competitive position to be awarded each contract to perform such activities. even so, the government periodically revisits whether refueling of nuclear-powered aircraft carriers should be performed in private or public facilities. if a u.s. government owned shipyard were to become capable and engaged in the refueling of nuclear-powered aircraft carriers, our market position could be significantly and adversely affected. although we have competed with another large defense contractor to construct a large deck amphibious ship, which was awarded to us, we are currently the only builder of large deck amphibious assault and expeditionary warfare ships for the u.s. navy, including lhas and lpds. we are also the sole builder of nscs for the u.s. coast guard and strongly positioned to be awarded future contracts for these types of vessels. we are one of only two companies currently designing and building nuclear-powered submarines for the u.s. navy, and we are party to a long-term teaming agreement with the other company for the production of such vessels. we are one of only two companies that builds the u.s. navy's current fleet of arleigh burke class (ddg 51) destroyers and are strongly positioned to be awarded future contracts for these types of ships as well. 7 our success in the shipbuilding defense industry depends upon our ability to develop, market, and produce our products and services at a cost consistent with the u.s. navy's budget, as well as our ability to provide the workforce, technologies, facilities, equipment, and financial capacity needed to deliver those products and services with maximum efficiency. we compete with a variety of companies in the provision of services to the government, energy, and oil and gas markets. environmental, health, and safety our manufacturing operations are subject to and affected by federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. we accrue estimated costs to complete environmental remediation when we determine it is probable we will incur expenses in the future, in amounts we can reasonably estimate, to address environmental conditions at currently or formerly owned or leased operating facilities, or at sites where we are named a potentially responsible party ("prp") by the u.s. environmental protection agency ("epa") or similarly designated by another environmental agency. the inherent difficulties in estimating future environmental remediation costs, resulting from uncertainties regarding the extent of required remediation, determination of legally responsible parties, and the status of laws and regulations and their interpretations, can cause our estimated remediation costs to change. we assess the potential impact on our financial statements of future environmental remediation costs by estimating, on a site-by-site basis, the range of reasonably possible remediation costs that we could incur, taking into account currently available information at each site, the current state of technology, and our prior experience in remediating contaminated sites. we review our estimates periodically and adjust them to reflect changes in facts, technology, and legal circumstances. we record accruals for environmental remediation costs on an undiscounted basis in the accounting period in which it becomes probable we have incurred a liability and the costs can be reasonably estimated. we would record related insurance recoveries only when we determine that collection is probable, and we do not include any litigation costs related to environmental matters in our environmental remediation accrual. we either expense or capitalize environmental expenditures as appropriate. capitalized expenditures relate to long-lived improvements in current operating facilities. we accrue environmental remediation costs at sites involving multiple parties based upon our expected share of liability, taking into account the financial viability of other jointly liable parties. we may incur remediation costs exceeding our accrued amount if other prps do not pay their allocable share of remediation costs, which could have a material effect on our business, financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. as of december 31, 2017 , our probable future costs for environmental remediation were approximately $1 million , which were accrued in other current liabilities in the consolidated statement of financial position. although information gained as projects progress may materially affect our accrued liability, we do not anticipate that future remediation expenditures will have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. in october 2014, we ceased shipbuilding construction operations at our avondale, louisiana shipyard ("avondale"). we may incur additional environmental costs in the future related to our wind down of shipbuilding at avondale. any additional costs are not reasonably estimable at this time due to insufficient information about the nature, timing, and extent of any potential environmental remediation we may be required to perform or the related costs that we may incur. accordingly, such potential environmental costs associated with the wind down of avondale are not included in our $1 million accrual for environmental remediation costs or otherwise reflected in our consolidated financial statements. we expect that a significant portion of any future environmental remediation costs we might incur at avondale would be recoverable in accordance with government accounting practices under the far. we believe we are in material compliance with environmental laws and regulations, and historical environmental compliance costs have not been material to our business. we could be affected by new environmental laws or regulations, including any enacted in response to concerns over climate change, other aspects of the environment, or natural resources. we have made investments we believe are necessary to comply with environmental laws, but we expect to continue to incur capital and operating costs in the future to comply with current and future environmental laws and regulations. at this time, we do not believe such costs will have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. 8 with regard to occupational health and safety, the shipbuilding and ship repair industry involves work with hazardous materials and processes and remains one of the most hazardous industries. according to the bureau of labor statistics, the shipbuilding and ship repair industry (naics 336611) ranks among the highest in several injury metrics. we have experienced one fatality in the past seven years. we strive to keep our occupational safety and health administration ("osha") compliance programs strong. in 1995, our newport news shipyard became the first shipyard to be awarded the star award from osha's voluntary protection program ("osha vpp"). to earn this award, we joined efforts with our unions and supported participation in the osha vpp, in which all parties assist each other to make our shipyard a safer place to work. our cmsd facility has also been certified as an osha vpp star site. the u.s. navy, nuclear regulatory commission, and doe each regulate and control various matters relating to nuclear materials we handle. subject to certain requirements and limitations, our contracts with the u.s. navy and doe generally provide for indemnity by the u.s. government for losses resulting from our nuclear operations. for our commercial nuclear operations, we rely primarily on insurance carried by nuclear facility operators for risk mitigation, and we maintain limited insurance coverage for losses in excess of the coverage of facility operators. employees we have approximately 38,000 employees. we are the largest industrial employer in virginia and the largest private employer in mississippi. we employ individuals specializing in 19 crafts and trades, with approximately 5,400 engineers and designers and approximately 2,400 employees with advanced degrees. our workforce contains many third-, fourth-, and fifth-generation employees, and approximately 1,450 employees have 40 or more years of continuous service. employees in our shipbuilding divisions with more than 40 years of service achieve the honor of master shipbuilder. as of december 31, 2017 , we had 1,091 master shipbuilders at newport news and 355 at ingalls. we employ more than 6,000 veterans across the enterprise. more than 1,500 apprentices are trained by our two shipbuilding units each year in more than 27 crafts and advanced programs. from nuclear pipe welders to senior executives, we employ approximately 4,500 apprentice alumni, 3,000 at newport news and 1,500 at ingalls. approximately 50% of our employees are covered by a total of nine collective bargaining agreements and two site stabilization agreements. newport news has four collective bargaining agreements covering represented employees, one of which covers approximately 50% of newport news employees and was renewed in july 2017. the remaining collective bargaining agreements at newport news expire in august 2018, december 2018, and november 2020. newport news craft workers employed at the kesselring site near saratoga springs, new york are represented under an indefinite doe site agreement. ingalls has five collective bargaining agreements covering represented employees, all of which expire in march 2022. approximately 35 technical solutions craft employees at the hanford site near richland, washington are represented under an indefinite doe site stabilization agreement. we believe our relationship with our employees is satisfactory. available information our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, and current reports on form 8-k, as well as any amendments to those reports, are available free of charge through our website after we file them with the securities and exchange commission ("sec"). you can learn more about us by reviewing our sec filings on the investor relations page on our website at www.huntingtoningalls.com. our sec filings are also available at the public reference room of the sec at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. you may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling 1-800-sec-0330. the sec also maintains a website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy statements, and other information about sec registrants, including us. executive officers of the registrant see executive officers of the registrant in item 4a for information about our executive officers. 9 forward-looking statements statements in this annual report on form 10-k and in our other filings with the sec, as well as other statements we may make from time to time, other than statements of historical fact, constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in these statements. factors that may cause such differences include: changes in government and customer priorities and requirements (including government budgetary constraints, shifts in defense spending, and changes in customer short-range and long-range plans); our ability to estimate our future contract costs and perform our contracts effectively; changes in procurement processes and government regulations and our ability to comply with such requirements; our ability to deliver our products and services at an affordable life cycle cost and compete within our markets; natural and environmental disasters and political instability; our ability to execute our strategic plan, including with respect to share repurchases, dividends, capital expenditures, and strategic acquisitions; adverse economic conditions in the united states and globally; changes in key estimates and assumptions regarding our pension and retiree health care costs; security threats, including cyber security threats, and related disruptions; and other risk factors discussed herein and in our other filings with the sec. there may be other risks and uncertainties that we are unable to predict at this time or that we currently do not expect to have a material adverse effect on our business, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements. you should not place undue reliance on any forward looking statements that we may make. 10 item 1a. risk factors an investment in our common stock or debt securities involves risks and uncertainties. we seek to identify, manage, and mitigate risks to our business, but risk and uncertainty cannot be eliminated or necessarily predicted. you should consider the following factors carefully, in addition to the other information contained in this annual report on form 10-k, before deciding to purchase our securities. we depend heavily on a single customer, the u.s. government, for substantially all of our business, and changes affecting this customer's priorities and spending could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. our business consists primarily of the design, construction, repair, and maintenance of nuclear-powered ships, such as aircraft carriers and submarines, and non-nuclear ships, such as surface combatants and expeditionary warfare and amphibious assault ships, for the u.s. navy and coastal defense surface ships for the u.s. coast guard, as well as the refueling and overhaul and inactivation of nuclear-powered ships for the u.s. navy. substantially all of our revenues in 2017 were derived from products and services sold to the u.s. government, and we expect this to continue in the foreseeable future. in addition, most of our backlog as of december 31, 2017 , was u.s. government related. our u.s. government contracts are subject to various risks, including our customers' political and budgetary constraints and processes, changes in customers' short-range and long-range strategic plans, the timing of contract awards, significant changes in contract scheduling, intense contract and funding competition, difficulty in forecasting costs and schedules for bids on developmental and sophisticated technical work, and contractor suspension or debarment in the event of certain violations of legal or regulatory requirements. any of these factors could affect our business with the u.s. government, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. significant delays or reductions in appropriations for our programs, changes in customer priorities, and potential contract terminations could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. we are directly dependent upon congressional funding of u.s. navy and u.s. coast guard programs . the funding of u.s. government programs is subject to congressional budget authorization and appropriation processes. for certain programs, congress appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis even though a program may be performed over several fiscal years. consequently, programs are often partially funded initially and receive additional funding only as congress makes additional appropriations. if we incur costs in excess of existing funding on a contract, we may be at risk for recovery of those costs unless and until additional funds are appropriated. we cannot predict the extent to which total funding or funding for individual programs will be included, increased, or reduced as part of the annual budget process or through continuing resolutions or individual supplemental appropriations. the impact of congressional actions to reduce the federal debt and resulting pressures on federal spending could adversely affect the total funding of individual contracts or funding for individual programs and delay purchasing or payment decisions by our customers. in august 2011, the budget control act (the "bca") established limits on u.s. government discretionary spending, including a reduction of defense spending by approximately $487 billion from fiscal years 2012 through 2021, representing approximately 8% of planned defense spending. the bca also provided that the defense budget would face sequestration cuts of up to an additional $500 billion during that same period to the extent that discretionary spending limits are exceeded, representing approximately 9% of planned defense spending, and $500 billion for non-defense discretionary spending, including the u.s. coast guard. the bipartisan budget act of 2018 (the bba 2018 ) provided sequestration relief for fiscal years 2018 and 2019. sequestration remains in effect, however, for fiscal years 2020 and 2021. long-term uncertainty is continuing with respect to overall levels of defense spending across the future years defense plan, and it is likely that u.s. government discretionary spending levels will continue to be subject to significant pressure. for additional information relating to the u.s. defense budget, see the business environment section of management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in item 7. demand for our products and services can also be affected by potential changes in customer priorities due to changes in military strategy and planning. in response to the need for cheaper alternatives and the proliferation of "smart weapons," future strategy reassessments by the dod may result in decreased demand for our shipbuilding programs, including our aircraft carrier programs. for the year ended december 31, 2017 , our aircraft carrier 11 programs accounted for approximately 31% of our consolidated revenue. we cannot predict the impact of changes to customer priorities on existing, follow-on, replacement, or future programs. a shift of priorities to programs in which we do not participate and related reductions in funding for or the termination of programs in which we do participate could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. the u.s. government generally has the ability to terminate contracts, in whole or in part, with little or no prior notice, for convenience or for default based on performance. in the event of termination of a contract for the u.s. government's convenience, a contractor is normally able to recover costs already incurred on the contract and receive profit on those costs up to the amount authorized under the contract, but not the anticipated profit that would have been earned had the contract been completed. such a termination could also result in the cancellation of future work on the related program. termination resulting from our default can expose us to various liabilities, including excess re-procurement costs, and could negatively affect our ability to compete for future contracts. any contract termination could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. cost growth on flexibly priced contracts that cannot be justified as increases in contract value due from customers exposes us to reduced profitability and to the potential loss of future business. our operating income is adversely affected when we incur certain contract costs or certain increases in contract costs that cannot be billed to customers. cost growth can occur if expenses to complete a contract increase due to technical challenges, manufacturing difficulties, delays, workforce-related issues, or inaccurate estimates used to calculate contract costs initially. reasons may include unavailability or reduced productivity of labor, the nature and complexity of the work performed, the timeliness and availability of materials, major subcontractor performance or product quality issues, performance delays, availability and timing of funding from the customer, and natural disasters. the process of estimating contract costs requires significant judgment and expertise. a significant increase in contract costs from our original cost estimates on one or more contracts could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. our ability to recover the costs we incur and realize profits on contracts with our u.s. government customers depends on the type of contract under which we are performing. our u.s. government business is currently performed under firm fixed price ("ffp"), fixed price incentive ("fpi"), cost plus incentive fee ("cpif"), cost plus fixed fee ("cpff"), and cost plus award fee ("cpaf") contracts. under ffp contracts, we retain all cost savings on completed contracts but are responsible for the full amount of all expenditures in excess of the contract price. fpi contracts, on the other hand, are flexibly priced agreements under which cost overruns and underruns to an agreed target cost are shared between the u.s. government and us. the u.s. government is liable for its share of allowable costs up to a ceiling price, and we are responsible for all costs incurred in excess of such ceiling price, typically 125-135% of target cost. our profit on fpi contracts varies according to a contract formula that generally compares the amount of costs incurred to the contract target cost. under cpif, cpff, and cpaf contracts, we are generally required to perform the contract only to the extent the u.s. government makes funds available, and we recover all allowable costs incurred in the performance of the contract. under cpif contracts, our profit is determined by a contractually specified formula that compares allowable incurred costs to the contract target cost, subject in some instances to a maximum or minimum fee percentage. under cpff contracts, the dollar amount of profit received is the same without regard to the amount of costs incurred. under cpaf contracts, the dollar amount of profit received is determined by the award fee provisions in the contract. of ingalls' revenues in 2017, approximately 89% were generated from fpi contracts, approximately 5% were generated from cpaf contracts, approximately 3% were generated from cpff contracts, and approximately 3% were generated from ffp contracts. of newport news' 2017 revenues, approximately 50% were generated from cpff contracts, approximately 41% were generated from fpi contracts, and approximately 9% were generated from cpif contracts. of technical solutions' revenues in 2017, approximately 33% were generated from time and material contracts, approximately 28% were generated from cpff contracts, approximately 29% were generated from ffp contracts, approximately 7% were generated from cpaf contracts, approximately 1% were generated from fpi contracts, and approximately 2% were generated from cpif contracts. to the extent our mix of contract types changes in the future, our ability to recover our costs and realize profits on our contracts could be negatively affected. 12 our earnings and profitability depend upon our ability to perform our contracts. when agreeing to contract terms, we make assumptions and projections about future conditions and events, many of which extend over long periods. our assumptions and projections are based, among other matters, upon our assessments of the productivity and availability of labor, the complexity of the work to be performed, the cost and availability of materials, the impact of delayed performance, and the timing of product deliveries. we may experience significant variances from our assumptions and projections, delays in our contract performance, and variances in the timing of our product deliveries. if our actual experience differs significantly from our assumptions or projections or we incur unanticipated contract costs, the profitability of the related contracts may be adversely affected. our earnings and profitability depend, in part, upon subcontractor performance and raw material and component availability and pricing. we rely on third parties to provide raw materials , major components and sub-systems , hardware elements , and sub-assemblies for our products and to perform certain services we provide to our customers, and to do so in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. disruptions and performance problems caused by our suppliers and subcontractors, or a misalignment between our contractual obligations to our customers and our agreements with our subcontractors and suppliers, could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our commitments to customers. our ability to perform our obligations on a timely basis could be adversely affected if one or more of our suppliers or subcontractors are unable to provide the agreed-upon products or materials or perform the agreed-upon services in a timely, compliant and cost-effective manner or otherwise fail to satisfy contractual requirements. the inability of our suppliers or subcontractors to perform could also result in the need for us to transition to alternate parties, which could result in significant incremental cost and delay, or the need for us to provide other supplemental means to support our existing suppliers and subcontractors. our costs to manufacture our products can increase over the terms of our contracts, including as a result of increases in material costs. we may be protected from increases in material costs through cost escalation provisions in some of our contracts, to the extent that such increases are consistent with industry indices. even with these provisions, however, the difference in basis between our actual material costs and these indices may expose us to cost uncertainty. in addition, significant delays in deliveries of key raw materials, which may occur as a result of availability or price, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. in some cases, only one supplier may exist for certain components and parts required to manufacture our products. the inability of a sole source supplier to provide a necessary component or part in a timely, compliant, or cost-effective manner could increase our contract cost and affect our ability to perform our contract. our procurement practices are intended to provide quality materials and services to support our programs and to reduce the likelihood of our procurement of unauthorized, non-compliant, or deficient materials and services. we rely on our subcontractors and suppliers to comply with applicable laws, regulations, and the expectations set forth in the hii supplier code of conduct regarding the materials and services we procure from them. in some circumstances, we rely on representations and certifications from our subcontractors and suppliers regarding their compliance. we also work with subcontractors and suppliers to conduct technical assessments, inspections, and audits, as necessary. notwithstanding the actions we take to mitigate the risk of receiving materials and services that fail to meet specifications or requirements, subcontractors and suppliers have in the past provided us with unauthorized, non-compliant, or deficient materials and services. our inability to procure, or a significant delay in acquiring, necessary raw materials, components, or parts, the failure of our subcontractors or suppliers to comply with applicable laws and regulations, inaccurate certifications from our subcontractors and suppliers regarding their compliance, or noncompliant materials, components, or parts we acquire from our subcontractors and suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. 13 changes to department of defense business practices could have a material effect on dod's procurement process and adversely impact our current programs and potential new awards. the defense industry has experienced, and we expect will continue to experience, significant changes to business practices resulting from an increased focus by dod on affordability, efficiencies, business systems, recovery of costs, and a reprioritization of available defense funds to key areas for future defense spending. the dod continues to adjust its procurement practices, requirements criteria, and source selection methodology in an ongoing effort to reduce costs, gain efficiencies, and enhance program management and control. we expect dod's focus on business practices to impact the contracting environment in which we operate as we and others in the industry adjust our practices to address the dod's initiatives and the reduced level of spending by the dod. depending on how these initiatives are implemented, they could have an impact on our current programs, as well as new business opportunities with the dod. in addition to dod's business practice initiatives, the dcma and dcaa have implemented cost recovery/cost savings initiatives to prioritize efforts to recover costs. as a result of certain of these initiatives, we have experienced and may continue to experience a higher number of audits and/or lengthened periods of time required to close open audits. in addition, the thresholds for certain allowable costs, including compensation costs, have been significantly reduced, and other thresholds are being challenged, debated, and, in certain cases, modified. significant changes to the thresholds for allowable costs could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. our future success depends, in part, on our ability to deliver our products and services at an affordable life cycle cost, requiring us to develop and maintain technologies, facilities, equipment, and a qualified workforce to meet the needs of current and future customers. shipbuilding is a long cycle business, and our success depends on quality, cost, and schedule performance on our contracts. our success depends upon our ability to develop and maintain the workforce, technologies, facilities, equipment, and financial capacity needed to deliver our products and services at an affordable life cycle cost. if we fail to maintain our competitive position in these areas, we could lose future contracts to our competitors, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. our operating results are heavily dependent upon our ability to attract and retain at competitive costs a sufficient number of engineers and workers with the necessary skills and security clearances. at the same time, stable future revenues and costs are important for us to maintain a qualified workforce. development and maintenance of the necessary nuclear expertise and the challenges of hiring and training a qualified workforce can be a limitation on our business. if qualified personnel become scarce, we could experience higher labor, recruiting, or training costs to attract and retain qualified employees, or, if we fail to attract and retain qualified personnel, we could incur difficulties performing our contracts and attracting new contract awards. competition within our markets or an increase in bid protests may reduce our revenues and market share. u.s. defense spending levels are uncertain and difficult to predict. the reduction in shipbuilding activity by the u.s. navy, evidenced by the reduction in fleet size from 566 ships in 1989 to 280 ships as of december 31, 2017 , has resulted in workforce reductions in the industry but little infrastructure consolidation. the general result has been fewer contracts awarded to the same fixed number of shipyards. six major private united states shipyards, three of which we own, plus many other smaller private shipyards compete for contracts to construct, overhaul, repair, and convert naval vessels. additionally, our products, such as aircraft carriers, submarines, amphibious assault ships, surface combatants, and other ships, compete for funding with each other, as well as with other defense products and services. we expect competition for future shipbuilding programs to be intense. we compete with another large defense contractor for construction contracts to build surface combatants , submarines, and large deck amphibious ships. we may in the future compete with the same and other defense contractors to build other ships for which we are currently the sole source, including expeditionary warfare and other amphibious assault ships. moreover, reductions in u.s. defense spending that reduce the demand for the types of ships we build and services we provide increase our risk exposure to market competition. if we are unable to continue to compete successfully against our current or future competitors, we may experience lower revenues and market share, which could negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. 14 although we are the only company currently capable of refueling nuclear-powered aircraft carriers, two existing u.s. government-owned shipyards may be able to refuel nuclear-powered aircraft carriers if substantial investments in facilities, personnel, and training were made. u.s. government-owned shipyards currently engage in the refueling, overhaul, and inactivation of los angeles class (ssn 688) submarines and are capable of repairing and overhauling non-nuclear ships. if a u.s. government-owned shipyard became capable and engaged in the refueling of nuclear-powered aircraft carriers, our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows could be adversely affected. we also compete in the shipbuilding engineering, planning, and design market with other companies that provide engineering support services. such competition increases the risk we may not be the successful bidder on future u.s. navy engineering proposals, including aircraft carrier research and development, submarine design, and surface combatant and amphibious assault ship program contracts. our competitive environment is also affected by bid protests from unsuccessful bidders on new program awards. as the competitive environment intensifies, the number of bid protests may increase. bid protests can result in an award decision being overturned, requiring a re-bid of the contract. even when a bid protest does not result in a re-bid, resolution of the matter typically extends the time until contract performance can begin, which may reduce our earnings in the period in which the contract would otherwise be performed. as a u.s. government contractor, we are heavily regulated and could be adversely affected by changes in regulations or negative findings from a u.s. government audit or investigation. as a u.s. government contractor, we must comply with significant regulatory requirements, including those relating to procurement, cyber security, and nuclear operations. government contracting requirements increase our contract performance and compliance costs and risks and change on a routine basis. in addition, our nuclear operations are subject to an enhanced regulatory environment, which results in increased performance and compliance efforts and costs. new laws, regulations, or procurement requirements, or changes to existing ones (including, for example, regulations related to recovery of compensation costs, cyber security, counterfeit parts, specialty metals, and conflict minerals), can increase our performance and compliance costs and risks and reduce our profitability. we are routinely audited and reviewed by the u.s. government and its various agencies, including the u.s. navy's supervisor of shipbuilding, the dcaa, and the dcma. these agencies review our contract performance, cost structures, and compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and standards, as well as the adequacy of our business systems and processes relative to u.s. government requirements. if an audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to administrative, civil, or criminal proceedings, which could result in fines, penalties, repayments, or compensatory, treble, or other damages. certain u.s. government findings against a contractor can also lead to suspension or debarment from future u.s. government contracts or the loss of export privileges . allegations of impropriety can also cause us significant reputational harm. whether or not illegal activities are alleged, the u.s. government has the ability to decrease or withhold contract payments if it determines significant deficiencies exist in business systems subject to its review. in the past the u.s. government has, in certain instances, withheld contract payments upon its assessment that deficiencies existed with one or more of our business systems. when appropriate, we must modify our affected business systems to address the u.s. government's determinations. the u.s. government has, from time to time, recommended that certain of our contract prices be reduced, or that certain costs allocated to our contracts be disallowed. these recommendations sometimes involve substantial dollar amounts. in response to u.s. government audits, investigations, and inquiries, we have also in the past made adjustments to our contract prices and the costs allocated to our government contracts. such audits, investigations, and inquiries may result in future reductions of our contract prices. any costs we incur that are determined to be unallowable or improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be recovered or must be refunded if previously reimbursed. we must comply with a variety of federal laws and regulations, including the far, the truth in negotiations act, the false claims act, the procurement integrity act, the international traffic in arms regulations promulgated under the arms export control act, the close the contractor fraud loophole act, the foreign corrupt practices act, and cost accounting standards. if a determination is made that we engaged in illegal activities or did not act responsibly , as defined by the law, we may be subject to reductions in contract values, contract modifications or terminations, 15 penalties, fines, repayments, compensatory, treble, or other damages, or suspension or debarment, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. many of our contracts contain performance obligations that require innovative design capabilities or state-of-the-art manufacturing expertise, include technological complexity, or are dependent upon factors not wholly within our control, and failure to meet these obligations could adversely affect our profitability and future prospects. we design, develop, and manufacture products and provide services applied by our customers in a variety of environments. problems and delays in product development or with delivery of subcontractor components or services as a result of issues with respect to design, technology, licensing and intellectual property rights, labor, learning curve assumptions, or materials and parts could prevent us from satisfying contractual requirements. first-in-class ships, also known as lead ships, usually include new technology that is supplied by the u.s. navy, other contractors, or us. problems developing these new technologies or design changes in the construction process can lead to delays in the design schedule for construction. the risks associated with new technology or mid-construction design changes can both increase the cost of a ship and delay delivery. late delivery of information can also cause inefficiencies in the construction process, increase costs, and put the delivery schedule at risk, which could adversely affect our profitability and future prospects. our products cannot always be tested and proven and are otherwise subject to unforeseen problems, including premature failure of products that cannot be accessed for repair or replacement, substandard quality or workmanship, and unplanned degradation of product performance. these failures could result in loss of life or property and could negatively affect our results of operations by causing unanticipated expenses not covered by insurance or indemnification from the customer, diversion of management focus to respond to unforeseen problems, loss of follow-on work, and, in the case of certain contracts, repayment to the customer of contract costs and fee payments previously received. we periodically experience quality issues with respect to products and services that we sell to our u.s. government customers. these issues can and have required significant resources to analyze the source of the deficiencies and implement corrective actions. we may discover quality issues in the future related to our products and services that require analysis and corrective action. such issues and our responses and corrective actions could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. we use estimates when accounting for contracts. changes in estimates could affect our profitability and our overall financial position. contract accounting requires judgment relative to assessing risks, estimating contract revenues and costs, and making assumptions regarding schedule and technical issues. the size and nature of many of our contracts make the estimation of total revenues and costs at completion complicated and subject to many variables. for new shipbuilding programs, we estimate, negotiate, and contract for construction of ships that are not completely designed, which subjects our risk assessments, revenue and cost estimates, and assumptions regarding schedule and technical issues to the variability of the final ship design and evolving scope of work. our judgment , estimation , and assumption processes are significant to our contract accounting, and materially different amounts can be generated if different assumptions are used or if actual events differ from our assumptions. future changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances, or estimates may have a material adverse effect on our future financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. see critical accounting policies, estimates, and judgments in item 7. our business is subject to disruption caused by natural disasters, environmental disasters, and other events that could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. we have significant operations located in regions of the united states that have been and may in the future be exposed to damaging storms, such as hurricanes and floods, and environmental disasters, such as oil spills. natural disasters can disrupt our workforce, electrical and other power distribution networks, computer and internet operations and accessibility, and the critical industrial infrastructure needed for normal business operations, which could adversely affect our contract performance and financial results. environmental disasters, particularly oil spills in waterways and bodies of water used for the transport and testing of our ships, can disrupt the timing of performance under our contracts with the u.s. navy and the u.s. coast guard. 16 damage and disruption resulting from natural and environmental disasters may be significant. should insurance or other risk transfer mechanisms be unavailable or insufficient to recover material costs associated with natural or environmental disasters or other events, we could experience a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. see our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover all of our significant risks or our insurers may deny coverage of material losses we incur, which could adversely affect our profitability and financial position. our suppliers and subcontractors are also subject to natural and environmental disasters that could affect their ability to deliver products or services or otherwise perform their contracts. performance failures by our subcontractors due to natural or environmental disasters may adversely affect our ability to perform our contracts, which could reduce our profitability in the event damages or other costs are not recoverable from the subcontractor, the customer, or insurers. such events could also result in a termination of the prime contract and have an adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts. in addition to the types of events described above, operation of our facilities may be disrupted by civil unrest, acts of sabotage or terrorism, and other local security concerns. such events may require us to incur greater costs for security or to shut down operations for a period of time. our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover all of our significant risks or our insurers may deny coverage of material losses we incur, which could adversely affect our profitability and financial position. we seek to negotiate and enter into insurance agreements to cover our significant risks and potential liabilities, including, among others, property loss from natural disasters, product liability, and business interruption resulting from an insured property loss. in some circumstances, we may be indemnified for losses by the u.s. government, subject to the availability of appropriated funds. not every risk or liability can be protected by insurance, and, for insurable risks, the limits of coverage reasonably obtainable in the market may not be sufficient to cover the full amount of actual losses or liabilities incurred, including, for example, in the case of a catastrophic hurricane. in addition, the nature of our business makes it difficult to quantify the disruptive impact of such events. limitations on the availability of insurance coverage may result in us bearing substantial costs for uninsured losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. even in cases where we have insurance coverage, disputes with insurance carriers over coverage may affect the timing of cash flows, and, in the event of litigation with an insurance carrier, an outcome unfavorable to us may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. our business could suffer if we are unsuccessful in negotiating new collective bargaining agreements. approximately 50% of our employees are covered by a total of nine collective bargaining agreements and two doe site stabilization agreements. newport news has four collective bargaining agreements covering represented employees, one of which covers approximately 50% of newport news employees and was renewed in july 2017. the remaining collective bargaining agreements at newport news expire in august 2018, december 2018, and november 2020. newport news craft workers employed at the kesselring site near saratoga springs, new york are represented under an indefinite doe site agreement. ingalls has five collective bargaining agreements covering represented employees, all of which expire in march 2022. approximately 35 technical solutions craft employees at the hanford site near richland, washington are represented under an indefinite doe site stabilization agreement. collective bargaining agreements generally expire after three to five years, and we negotiate successor agreements as each of our collective bargaining agreements expires. while we believe we maintain good relationships with our represented workers, it is possible we may experience difficulties renegotiating expiring collective bargaining agreements. we have, in the past, experienced work stoppages, strikes, and other labor disruptions associated with the collective bargaining of new labor agreements. if we experience such events in the future, we could incur additional expenses or work delays that could adversely affect programs served by employees who are covered by collective bargaining agreements. 17 changes in key estimates and assumptions, such as discount rates and assumed long-term returns on assets, actual investment returns on our pension plan assets, and legislative and regulatory actions could significantly affect our earnings, financial condition, and contributions to our defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans in future periods. our pension and retiree health care costs are dependent upon significant judgment regarding various estimates and assumptions, particularly with respect to the discount rate and expected long-term rates of return on plan assets. changes to these estimates and assumptions could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. differences between actual investment returns and our assumed long-term returns on assets will result in future changes in pension expense and the funded status of our plans, and could increase future funding of the plans. unforeseen environmental costs could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. our operations are subject to and affected by a variety of existing federal, state, and local environmental protection laws and regulations. in addition, we could be affected by future laws or regulations, including those imposed in response to concerns over climate change, other aspects of the environment, or natural resources. we expect to incur future capital and operating costs to comply with current and future environmental laws and regulations, and such costs could be substantial, depending on the future proliferation of environmental rules and regulations and the extent to which we discover currently unknown environmental conditions. shipbuilding operations require the use of hazardous materials. our shipyards also generate significant quantities of wastewater, which we treat before discharging pursuant to various permits. to handle these materials, our shipyards have an extensive network of aboveground and underground storage tanks, some of which have leaked and required remediation in the past. in addition, our handling of hazardous materials has sometimes resulted in spills in our shipyards and occasionally in adjacent rivers and waterways in which we operate. our shipyards maintain extensive waste handling programs that we periodically modify, consistent with changes in applicable laws and regulations. see environmental, health and safety in item 1. various federal, state, and local environmental laws and regulations impose restrictions on the discharge of pollutants into the environment and establish standards for the transportation, storage, and disposal of toxic and hazardous wastes. substantial fines, penalties, and criminal sanctions may be imposed for noncompliance, and certain environmental laws impose joint and several "strict liability" for remediation of spills and releases of oil and hazardous substances. such laws and regulations render a party liable for environmental cleanup and remediation costs and damage without regard to negligence or fault on the part of such party and could expose us to liability for the conduct of or conditions caused by third parties. in addition to fines, penalties, and criminal sanctions, environmental laws and regulations may require the installation of costly pollution control equipment or operational changes to limit pollution emissions or discharges and/or to decrease the likelihood of accidental hazardous material releases. we expect to continue to incur costs to comply with federal and state environmental laws and regulations related to the cleanup of pollutants released into the environment. in addition, if we are found to be in violation of the clean air act or the clean water act, the facility or facilities involved in the violation could be placed by the epa on the "excluded parties list" maintained by the general services administration, which would continue until the epa concluded that the cause of the violation was cured. facilities on the "excluded parties list" are prohibited from working on any u.s. government contract. the adoption of new environmental laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, imposition of new cleanup requirements, discovery of previously unknown or more extensive contamination, litigation involving environmental impacts, our inability to recover related costs under our government contracts, or the financial insolvency of other responsible parties could cause us to incur costs that could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. we ceased shipbuilding construction at our avondale, louisiana shipyard in 2014. our wind down of operations at this shipyard may result in environmental costs, the amount of which we cannot currently estimate. such costs could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. 18 market volatility and adverse capital market conditions may affect our ability to access cost-effective sources of funding and may expose us to risks associated with the financial viability of suppliers and subcontractors. the financial markets can experience high levels of volatility and disruption, reducing the availability of credit for certain issuers. we may access these markets from time to time to support certain business activities, including funding acquisitions and capital expansion projects and refinancing existing indebtedness. we also access these markets to obtain credit support for our workers' compensation self-insurance program and arrange for letters of credit. a number of factors could cause us to incur higher borrowing costs and to have greater difficulty accessing public and private markets for debt. these factors include disruptions or declines in the global capital markets and/or a decline in our financial performance, outlook, or credit ratings. the occurrence of any or all of these events may adversely affect our ability to fund our operations, meet contractual commitments, make future investments or desirable acquisitions, or respond to competitive challenges. tightening capital markets could also adversely affect our suppliers' and subcontractors' ability to obtain financing. delays in suppliers' or subcontractors' ability to obtain financing, or the unavailability of financing, could negatively affect their ability to perform their contracts with us and cause our inability to perform our contracts. the inability of our suppliers and subcontractors to obtain financing could also result in the need for us to transition to alternate suppliers and subcontractors, which could result in significant incremental costs and delays. our reputation and our ability to do business may be impacted by the improper conduct of employees, agents, or business partners. our compliance program includes detailed compliance plans and related compliance controls, policies, procedures, and training designed to prevent and detect misconduct by employees, agents, business partners, and others working on our behalf, including suppliers and subcontractors, that would violate the laws of the jurisdictions in which we operate, including laws governing payments to government officials, the protection of export controlled or classified information, cost accounting and billing, competition, and data privacy. our business has been impacted in the past by the improper misconduct of employees and business partners, and we may not prevent all such misconduct in the future by our employees, agents, business partners, and others working on our behalf, including suppliers and subcontractors. moreover, the risk of improper conduct may be expected to increase as we expand into commercial markets and foreign jurisdictions. any improper actions by our employees, agents, business partners, and others working on our behalf, including suppliers and subcontractors, could subject us to administrative, civil, or criminal investigations and monetary and non-monetary penalties, including suspension or debarment, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. any such improper actions could also cause us significant reputational damage. our business could be negatively impacted by security threats, including cyber security threats, and related disruptions. as a defense contractor, we rely on our information technology infrastructure to process, transmit, and store electronic information, including classified and other sensitive information of the u.s. government. while we maintain stringent information security policies and protocols, we face cyber security and other security threats to our information technology infrastructure, including threats to our and the u.s. government's proprietary and classified information. we face unauthorized and unlawful attempts to gain access to our information technology infrastructure, including coordinated attacks from groups of hackers, and we could also face attempts to gain physical access to classified and other sensitive information located at our facilities. our information technology infrastructure is critical to the efficient operation of our business and essential to our ability to perform day-to-day operations. breaches of our information technology infrastructure or physical facilities could cause us to incur significant recovery and restoration expenses; degrade performance on existing contracts; and expose us to reputational damage, potential liability, or the loss of current or future contracts, including work on sensitive or classified systems for the u.s. government, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. in addition, our suppliers, subcontractors, and other business partners face cyber security and other security threats. although we work cooperatively with our customers, suppliers, subcontractors, and other business partners to seek to minimize the impact of cyber threats, other security threats, and business disruptions, we must rely on the safeguards put in place by these entities, which may affect the security of our information. these entities have 19 varying levels of cyber security expertise and safeguards, and their relationships with u.s. government contractors may increase the likelihood that they are targeted by the same cyber security threats we face. our nuclear operations subject us to various environmental, regulatory, financial, and other risks. the design, construction, refueling and overhaul, repair, and inactivation of nuclear-powered aircraft carriers and nuclear-powered submarines, our nuclear facilities used to support such activities, our nuclear operations at doe sites, and our activities in the commercial nuclear market subject us to various risks, including: potential liabilities relating to harmful effects on the environment and human health resulting from nuclear operations and the storage, handling, and disposal of radioactive materials, including nuclear assemblies and their components; unplanned expenditures relating to maintenance, operation, security, and repair, including repairs required by the u.s. navy, the nuclear regulatory commission, or the doe; reputational harm; potential liabilities arising out of a nuclear incident whether or not it is within our control; and regulatory noncompliance and loss of authorizations or indemnifications necessary for our operations. failure to properly handle nuclear materials could pose a health risk to humans or wildlife and could cause personal injury and property damage, including environmental contamination. if a nuclear accident were to occur, its severity could be significantly affected by the volume of the materials and the speed of corrective action taken by us and emergency response personnel, as well as other factors beyond our control, such as weather and wind conditions. actions we might take in response to an accident could result in significant costs. our nuclear operations are subject to various safety related requirements imposed by the u.s. navy, doe, and nuclear regulatory commission. in the event of noncompliance, these agencies may increase regulatory oversight, impose fines, or shut down our operations, depending on their assessment of the severity of the noncompliance. in addition, new or revised security and safety requirements imposed by the u.s. navy, doe, and nuclear regulatory commission could necessitate substantial capital and other expenditures. subject to certain requirements and limitations, our contracts with the u.s. navy and doe generally provide for indemnity by the u.s. government for costs arising out of or resulting from our nuclear operations. we may not, however, be indemnified for all liabilities we may incur in connection with our nuclear operations. to mitigate risks related to our commercial nuclear operations, we rely primarily on insurance carried by nuclear facility operators and our own limited insurance for losses in excess of the coverage of facility operators. such insurance, however, may not be sufficient to cover our costs in the event of an accident or business interruption relating to our commercial nuclear operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. changes in future business conditions could cause business investments, recorded goodwill, and/or purchased intangible assets to become impaired, resulting in substantial losses and write-downs that would reduce our operating income. as part of our business strategy, we acquire non-controlling and controlling interests in businesses. we make acquisitions and investments following careful analysis and due diligence processes designed to achieve a desired return or strategic objective. business acquisitions generally involve estimates, assumptions, and judgments to determine acquisition prices, which prices are allocated among acquired assets, including goodwill, based upon fair market values. notwithstanding our analyses, due diligence processes, and business integration efforts, actual operating results of acquired businesses may vary significantly from initial estimates. in such events, we may be required to write down our carrying value of the related goodwill and/or purchased intangible assets. in addition, declines in the trading price of our common stock or the market as a whole can result in goodwill and/or purchased intangible asset impairment charges. as of december 31, 2017 , goodwill and purchased intangible assets generated from prior business acquisitions accounted for approximately 19% and 8% , respectively, of our total assets. we evaluate goodwill values for impairment annually on november 30, or when evidence of potential impairment exists. we also evaluate the values of purchased intangible assets when evidence of potential impairment exists. the impairment tests are 20 based on several factors requiring judgment. as a general matter, a significant decrease in expected cash flows or changes in market conditions may indicate potential impairment of recorded goodwill or purchased intangible assets. in 2015, we recorded goodwill impairment charges of $75 million at our technical solutions segment within the oil and gas reporting unit. the oil and gas reporting unit is sensitive to developments in the oil and gas industry. the goodwill impairment charges were primarily driven by continuing declines in oil prices and the resulting decreases in industry market multiples. in 2015, we also recorded an intangible asset impairment charge of $27 million at our technical solutions segment as a result of declining market conditions and updated expectations. adverse equity market conditions that result in a decline in market multiples and the trading price of our common stock, or other events, such as reductions in future contract awards or significant adverse changes in our operating margins or the operating results of acquired businesses that vary significantly from projected results on which purchase prices are based, could result in an impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets. any such impairments that result in us recording additional goodwill or intangible asset impairment charges could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. unanticipated changes in our tax provisions or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability and cash flow. we are subject to income taxes in various jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of business, the ultimate tax determination of many of our transactions and calculations is uncertain. in addition, timing differences in the recognition of contract income for financial statement purposes and for income tax purposes can cause uncertainty with respect to the timing of income tax payments, which can have a significant impact on cash flow in a particular period. changes in applicable income tax laws and regulations, or their interpretation, could result in higher or lower income tax rates or changes in the taxability of certain transactions or the deductibility of certain expenses, thereby affecting our income tax expense and profitability. on december 22, 2017, the tax cuts and jobs act (the "tax act") was signed into law. the tax act provides for significant changes to the u.s. internal revenue code of 1986, as amended, that impact corporations, including a reduction of the statutory federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% and changes or limitations to certain deductions. while our accounting for elements of the tax act is incomplete, we were able to make reasonable estimates of the effects of certain provisions of the tax act and recorded corresponding provisional adjustments. there remain certain elements for which we cannot yet make reasonable estimates, however, and we cannot determine at this time the full effects in future years of the tax act on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. see note 13: income taxes in item 8. in addition, the final results of any tax audits or related litigation could be materially different from our related historical income tax provisions and accruals. changes in our tax rate as a result of changes in our overall profitability, changes in tax legislation, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in differences between financial statement income and taxable income, the examination of previously filed tax returns by taxing authorities, and continuing assessments of our tax exposures can also impact our tax liabilities and affect our income tax expense, profitability, and cash flow. we conduct a portion of our operations through joint ventures and strategic alliances. we may have limited control over such arrangements and experience returns that are not proportional to the risks and resources we contribute. we conduct a portion of our operations through joint ventures with business partners. in any joint venture arrangement, differences in views among the joint venture participants may result in delayed decisions or in failures to reach agreement on major issues. we and our joint venture partners may, in certain instances, fail to reach agreement on significant decisions on a timely basis, or at all. we also cannot control the actions of our joint venture partners, including any non-performance, default, or bankruptcy of our joint venture partners, and we typically share liability or have joint and/or several liability with our joint venture partners for joint venture matters. any of these factors could potentially have a material adverse effect on our joint venture operations and the profitability of our joint ventures. in joint ventures in which we hold a minority interest, we have limited control over many decisions relating to joint venture operations and internal controls relating to operations. these joint ventures may not be subject to the same 21 requirements regarding internal controls and internal control reporting that apply to us. as a result, internal control issues may arise that could have a material adverse effect on the joint venture. in addition, in order to establish or preserve relationships with our joint venture partners, we may agree to assume risks and contribute resources that are proportionately greater than the returns we expect to receive in the related joint venture. such agreements may reduce our income and returns on these investments compared to what we would have received if our assumed risks and contributed resources were proportionate to our returns. strategic acquisitions and investments we pursue involve risks and uncertainties. as part of our business strategy, we review, evaluate, and consider potential acquisitions and investments. in evaluating such transactions, we make difficult judgments regarding the value of business opportunities, technologies, and other assets, the risks and costs of potential liabilities, and the future prospects of business opportunities. in addition, acquisitions and investments involve other risks and uncertainties, including the difficulty of integrating acquired businesses, challenges achieving strategic objectives and other benefits anticipated from acquisitions or investments, the diversion of management attention and resources from our existing operations and other initiatives, the potential impairment of acquired assets, and the potential loss of key employees of acquired businesses. our financial results, business, and future prospects could be adversely affected by unanticipated performance issues at acquired businesses, transaction-related charges, unexpected liabilities, amortization of expenses related to purchased intangible assets, and charges for impairments of goodwill and purchased intangible assets. we are subject to claims and litigation that could ultimately be resolved against us, requiring future material cash payments and/or future material charges against our operating income, materially impairing our financial position or cash flows. the size, nature, and complexity of our business make it highly susceptible to claims and litigation. we are subject to various administrative, civil, and criminal litigation, environmental claims, income tax matters, compliance matters, claims, and investigations, which could divert financial and management resources and result in fines, penalties, compensatory, treble or other damages, or nonmonetary relief. government regulations also provide that certain allegations against a contractor may lead to suspension or debarment from government contracts or suspension of export privileges. suspension or debarment could have a material adverse effect on us because of our reliance on government contracts and authorizations. litigation, claims, or investigations, if ultimately resolved against us, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. any litigation, claim, or investigation, even if fully indemnified or insured, could negatively impact our reputation among our customers and the public and make it more difficult for us to compete effectively or obtain adequate insurance in the future. we may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, which could affect our ability to compete. we own patents, trademarks, copyrights, and other forms of intellectual property related to our business, and we license intellectual property rights to and from third parties. the u.s. government generally receives non-exclusive licenses to certain intellectual property we develop in the performance of u.s. government contracts, and the u.s. government may use or authorize others to use such intellectual property. the u.s. government has begun asserting or seeking to obtain more extensive rights in intellectual property associated with its contracts. the u.s. government's efforts could reduce our ability to control the use of certain of our intellectual property rights in a government contracting environment. our intellectual property is also subject to challenge, invalidation, misappropriation, or circumvention by third parties. we also rely upon proprietary technology, information, processes, and know-how that are not protected by patents. we seek to protect this information through trade secret or confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, subcontractors, and other parties, as well as through other measures. these agreements and other measures may not, however, provide meaningful protection for our unpatented proprietary information. in the event of infringement of our intellectual property rights, breach of a confidentiality agreement, or unauthorized disclosure of proprietary information, we may not have adequate legal remedies to maintain our rights in our intellectual property. litigation to determine the scope of our rights, even if successful, could be costly and a diversion of management's attention from other aspects of our business. in addition, trade secrets may otherwise 22 become known or be independently developed by competitors. if we are unable adequately to protect our intellectual property rights, our business could be adversely affected. we have the right to use certain intellectual property licensed to us by third parties. in instances where third parties have licensed to us the right to use their intellectual property, we may be unable in the future to secure the necessary licenses to use such intellectual property on commercially reasonable terms. there can be no assurance we will continue to increase our dividends or to repurchase shares of our common stock at current levels. the payment of cash dividends and repurchases of our common stock are subject to limitations under applicable law and the discretion of our board of directors, considered in the context of then current conditions, including our earnings, other operating results and capital requirements. declines in asset values or increases in liabilities, including liabilities associated with benefit plans and assets and liabilities associated with taxes, can reduce stockholders' equity. a deficit in stockholders' equity could limit our ability under delaware law to pay dividends and repurchase shares in the future. in addition, the timing and amount of share repurchases under board approved share repurchase programs is within the discretion of management and will depend upon many factors, including results of operations and capital requirements, as well as applicable law. our debt exposes us to certain risks. as of december 31, 2017 , we had $1,279 million of debt under our senior notes and $1,235 million of additional borrowing capacity under our credit agreement (the credit facility ). our credit facility also allows us to solicit lenders to provide incremental financing in an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000 million, and the indentures governing our senior notes do not limit our incurrence of debt. the amount of our existing debt, combined with our ability to incur significant amounts of debt in the future, could have important consequences, including: increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic or industry conditions; requiring us to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, strategic initiatives, and general corporate purposes; increasing our vulnerability to, and limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or the industries in which we operate; exposing us to the risk of higher interest rates on borrowings under our credit facility, which are subject to variable rates of interest; placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and limiting our ability to borrow additional funds. to the extent new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we face could be increased. anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and delaware law, as well as regulatory requirements, could delay or prevent a change in control. certain provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws may delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that stockholders may consider favorable. for example, our restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws currently require advance notice for stockholder proposals and director nominations, and authorize our board of directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock. these provisions may discourage acquisition proposals or delay or prevent a change in control, which could harm our stock price. delaware law also imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock and us. our nuclear shipbuilding operations are considered vitally important to the u.s. navy. consequently, the u.s. navy requires us to include in our contracts with the navy provisions regarding notice and approval rights for the navy in the event of a change of control of our nuclear shipbuilding operations and regarding the navy's obligations to indemnify us for losses relating to our nuclear operations for the navy. such provisions require us to provide the u.s. navy with notice of any potential change of control of our nuclear shipbuilding operations and obtain the navy's consent for transferring certain related licenses in order to facilitate the navy's ability to ensure that a potential buyer would continue to conduct our operations in a satisfactory manner. we have included such 23 provisions in solicitations for future u.s. navy nuclear work, and we expect them to be included in future contracts with the navy for nuclear work. provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and our restated bylaws and our existing contracts with the u.s. navy may have the effect of discouraging, delaying, or preventing a change of control of our company that may be beneficial to our stockholders. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 61 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to certain market risks, primarily related to interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. interest rates - our financial instruments potentially subject to interest rate risk include floating rate borrowings under our credit facility. our $1,250 million revolving facility under our credit facility was undrawn as of december 31, 2017 . foreign currency - we currently have, and in the future may enter into, foreign currency forward contracts to manage foreign currency exchange rate risk related to payments to suppliers denominated in foreign currencies. as of december 31, 2017 , the fair values of our outstanding foreign currency forward contracts were not significant. 61risk factors 10 we operate in a heavily regulated environment and are routinely audited and reviewed by the u.s. government and its agencies, including the u.s. navy's supervisor of shipbuilding, the defense contract audit agency ("dcaa"), 5 table of contents and the defense contract management agency ("dcma"). these agencies evaluate our contract performance, cost structures, and compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and standards, as well as the adequacy of our business systems and processes relative to u.s. government requirements. business systems subject to audit or review include our accounting systems, purchasing systems, government property management systems, estimating systems, earned value management systems, and material management accounting systems. if an audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to administrative, civil, or criminal proceedings, which could result in fines, penalties, repayments, or compensatory, treble, or other damages. certain u.s. government findings against a contractor can also lead to suspension or debarment from future u.s. government contracts or the loss of export privileges . in addition, any costs we incur that are determined to be unallowable or improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be recovered or must be refunded if already reimbursed. the u.s. government has the ability, pursuant to regulations relating to contractor business systems, to decrease or withhold contract payments if it determines significant deficiencies exist in one or more such systems. in february 2018, we received the findings of an audit conducted by the dcaa citing potentially significant deficiencies in our newport news segment's business system for material management. we submitted a response in june 2018, agreeing in part and disagreeing in part with the audit findings, and we and the u.s. government continue to engage in discussions regarding the accuracy and significance of the dcaa's findings. in the event the u.s. government makes a final determination that there are remaining significant deficiencies and that our proposed corrective actions are inadequate, the u.s. government may withhold up to 5% from our interim billings on cost-reimbursement, labor-hour, and time and materials contracts at newport news containing the contractor business systems clause, until the u.s. government determines all significant deficiencies have been remediated. all u.s. government contracts at the newport news segment contain the relevant business systems provision, and any related withholding could have a material impact on the timing of our cash receipts. the u.s. government generally has the ability to terminate contracts, in whole or in part, with little or no prior notice, for convenience or for default based on performance. in the event of termination of a contract for convenience, a contractor is normally able to recover costs already incurred on the contract and receive profit on those costs up to the amount authorized under the contract, but not the anticipated profit that would have been earned had the contract been completed. such a termination could also result in the cancellation of future work on the related program. termination resulting from our default could expose us to various liabilities, including excess reprocurement costs, and could have a material effect on our ability to compete for future contracts. government contractors must comply with significant regulatory requirements, including those related to procurement. our contracts with the u.s. government may result in requests for equitable adjustments ("reas"), which represent requests for the u.s. government to make appropriate adjustments to contract terms, including pricing, delivery schedule, technical requirements, or other affected terms, due to changes in the original contract requirements and resulting delays and disruption in contract performance for which the u.s. government is responsible. we prepare, submit, and negotiate reas in the ordinary course of business, and large reas are not uncommon at the conclusion of both new construction and rcoh activities. reas are not considered claims under the contract disputes act of 1978, although they may be converted to such claims if good faith negotiations to resolve the reas are not satisfactory. in cases where there are multiple suppliers, contracts for the construction and conversion of u.s. navy ships and submarines are generally subject to competitive bidding. in evaluating proposed prices, the u.s. navy sometimes requires that each bidder submit information on pricing, estimated costs of completion, and anticipated profit margins to enable the navy to assess cost realism. the u.s. navy uses this information and other data to determine an estimated cost for each bidder. under u.s. government regulations, certain costs, including certain financing costs and marketing expenses, are not allowable contract costs and therefore are not recoverable. the u.s. government also regulates the methods by which all allowable costs, including overhead, are allocated to government contracts. our business, our contracts with various agencies of the u.s. government, and our subcontracts with other prime contractors are subject to a variety of laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, the federal acquisition regulation ("far"), the truth in negotiations act, the procurement integrity act, the false claims act, u.s. cost accounting standards ("cas"), the international traffic in arms regulations promulgated under the arms export control act, the close the contractor fraud loophole act, and the foreign corrupt practices act. a noncompliance determination by a government agency may result in reductions in contract values, contract modifications or terminations, penalties, fines, repayments, compensatory, treble, or other damages, or suspension or debarment. 6 table of contents competition in our primary business of designing, building, overhauling, and repairing military ships, we primarily compete with general dynamics and, to a lesser extent, smaller shipyards, one or more of which could team with a large defense contractor. intense competition related to programs, resources, and funding, and long operating cycles are key characteristics of both our business and the shipbuilding defense industry in general. it is common industry practice to share work on major programs among a number of companies. a company competing to be a prime contractor may, upon ultimate award of the contract to another party, become a subcontractor for the prime contracting party. it is not uncommon to compete for a contract award with a peer company and, simultaneously, serve as a supplier to or a customer of such competitor on other contracts. the nature of major defense programs, conducted under binding long-term contracts, allows companies that perform well to benefit from a level of program continuity not common in many industries. we believe we are well-positioned in our markets. because we are the only company currently capable of building, refueling, and inactivating the u.s. navy's nuclear-powered aircraft carriers, we believe we are in a strong competitive position to be awarded each contract to perform such activities. even so, the government periodically revisits whether refueling of nuclear-powered aircraft carriers should be performed in private or public facilities. if a u.s. government owned shipyard were to become capable and engaged in the refueling of nuclear-powered aircraft carriers, our market position could be significantly and adversely affected. we are currently the only builder of large deck amphibious assault ships and expeditionary warfare ships for the u.s. navy, including lhas and lpds. we are also the sole builder of nscs for the u.s. coast guard. we are one of only two companies currently designing and building nuclear-powered submarines for the u.s. navy, and we are party to long-term teaming agreements with the other company for the production of both virginia class (ssn 774) fast attack nuclear submarines and columbia class (ssbn 826) ballistic missile submarines. we are one of only two companies that builds the u.s. navy's current fleet of arleigh burke class (ddg 51) destroyers and are strongly positioned to be awarded future contracts for these types of ships as well. our success in the shipbuilding defense industry depends upon our ability to develop, market, and produce our products and services at costs consistent with the u.s. navy's budget, as well as our ability to provide the workforce, technologies, facilities, equipment, and financial capacity needed to deliver those products and services with maximum efficiency. we compete with a variety of companies in the provision of services to the government, energy, and oil and gas markets. environmental, health, and safety our manufacturing operations are subject to and affected by federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. we accrue estimated costs to perform environmental remediation when we determine it is probable we will incur expenses in the future, in amounts we can reasonably estimate, to address environmental conditions at currently or formerly owned or leased operating facilities, or at sites where we are named a potentially responsible party ("prp") by the u.s. environmental protection agency ("epa") or similarly designated by another environmental agency. the inherent difficulties in estimating future environmental remediation costs, resulting from uncertainties regarding the extent of required remediation, determination of legally responsible parties, and the status of laws and regulations and their interpretations, can cause our estimated remediation costs to change. we assess the potential impact on our financial statements of future environmental remediation costs by estimating, on a site-by-site basis, the range of reasonably possible remediation costs that we could incur, taking into account currently available information at each site, the current state of technology, and our prior experience remediating contaminated sites. we review our estimates periodically and adjust them to reflect changes in facts, technology, and legal circumstances. we record accruals for environmental remediation costs on an undiscounted basis in the accounting period in which it becomes probable we have incurred a liability and the costs can be reasonably estimated. we would record related insurance recoveries only when we determine that collection is probable, and we do not include any litigation costs related to environmental matters in our environmental remediation accrual. we either expense or capitalize environmental expenditures as appropriate. capitalized expenditures relate to long-lived improvements in current operating facilities. we accrue environmental remediation costs at sites involving 7 table of contents multiple parties based upon our expected share of liability, taking into account the financial viability of other jointly liable parties. we may incur remediation costs exceeding our accrued amount if other prps do not pay their allocable share of remediation costs, which could have a material effect on our business, financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. as of december 31, 2018 , our estimable probable future costs for environmental remediation were immaterial. although information gained as remediation progresses may materially affect our accrued liability, we do not anticipate that future remediation expenditures will have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. we believe we are in material compliance with environmental laws and regulations, and historical environmental compliance costs have not been material to our business. we could be affected by new environmental laws or regulations, including any laws and regulations enacted in response to concerns over climate change, other aspects of the environment, or natural resources. we have made investments we believe are necessary to comply with environmental laws, but we expect to incur future capital and operating costs to comply with current and future environmental laws and regulations. we do not currently believe such costs will have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. with regard to occupational health and safety, the shipbuilding and ship repair industry includes exposure to hazardous materials and processes. according to the bureau of labor statistics, the shipbuilding and ship repair industry (naics 336611) ranks among the highest in several injury metrics. we have experienced two fatalities in the past eight years. we strive to keep our occupational safety and health administration ("osha") compliance programs strong. the u.s. navy, nuclear regulatory commission, and doe each regulate and control various matters relating to nuclear materials we handle. subject to certain requirements and limitations, our contracts with the u.s. navy and doe generally provide for indemnity by the u.s. government for losses resulting from our nuclear operations. for our commercial nuclear operations, we rely primarily on insurance carried by nuclear facility operators for risk mitigation, and we maintain limited insurance coverage for losses in excess of the coverage of facility operators. employees we have approximately 40,000 employees. we are the largest industrial employer in virginia and the largest private employer in mississippi. we employ individuals specializing in 19 crafts and trades, with approximately 5,800 engineers and designers and approximately 2,300 employees with advanced degrees. our workforce contains many third-, fourth-, and fifth-generation employees, and approximately 1,240 employees have 40 or more years of continuous service. employees in our shipbuilding divisions with more than 40 years of service achieve the honor of master shipbuilder. as of december 31, 2018 , we had 947 master shipbuilders at newport news and 281 at ingalls. we employ more than 7,000 veterans across the enterprise. more than 1,900 apprentices are trained by our two shipbuilding segments each year in more than 27 crafts and advanced programs. from nuclear pipe welders to senior executives, we employ approximately 4,300 apprentice school alumni, 3,000 at newport news, 1,200 at ingalls, and 100 at technical solutions. approximately 50% of our employees are covered by a total of nine collective bargaining agreements and two site stabilization agreements. newport news has four collective bargaining agreements covering represented employees, which expire in december 2019, november 2020, november 2021, and december 2022. the collective bargaining agreement that expires in november 2021 covers approximately 50% of newport news employees. newport news craft workers employed at the kesselring site near saratoga springs, new york are represented under an indefinite doe site agreement. ingalls has five collective bargaining agreements covering represented employees, all of which expire in march 2022. approximately 35 technical solutions craft employees at the hanford site near richland, washington are represented under an indefinite doe site stabilization agreement. we believe our relationship with our employees is satisfactory. 8 table of contents available information our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, and current reports on form 8-k, as well as any amendments to those reports, are available free of charge through our website after we file them with the securities and exchange commission ("sec"). you can learn more about us by reviewing our sec filings on the investor relations page on our website at www.huntingtoningalls.com. the sec also maintains a website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy statements, and other information about sec registrants, including us. executive officers of the registrant see executive officers of the registrant in item 4a for information about our executive officers. forward-looking statements statements in this annual report on form 10-k and in our other filings with the sec, as well as other statements we may make from time to time, other than statements of historical fact, constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in these statements. factors that may cause such differences include: changes in government and customer priorities and requirements (including government budgetary constraints, shifts in defense spending, and changes in customer short-range and long-range plans); our ability to estimate our future contract costs and perform our contracts effectively; changes in procurement processes and government regulations and our ability to comply with such requirements; our ability to deliver our products and services at an affordable life cycle cost and compete within our markets; natural and environmental disasters and political instability; our ability to execute our strategic plan, including with respect to share repurchases, dividends, capital expenditures, and strategic acquisitions; adverse economic conditions in the united states and globally; changes in key estimates and assumptions regarding our pension and retiree health care costs; security threats, including cyber security threats, and related disruptions; and other risk factors discussed herein and in our other filings with the sec. there may be other risks and uncertainties that we are unable to predict at this time or that we currently do not expect to have a material adverse effect on our business, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements. you should not place undue reliance on any forward looking statements that we may make. 9 table of contents item 1a. risk factors an investment in our common stock or debt securities involves risks and uncertainties. we seek to identify, manage, and mitigate risks to our business, but risk and uncertainty cannot be eliminated or necessarily predicted. you should consider the following factors carefully, in addition to the other information contained in this annual report on form 10-k, before deciding to purchase our securities. we depend heavily on a single customer, the u.s. government, for substantially all of our business, and changes affecting this customer's priorities and spending could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. our business consists primarily of the design, construction, repair, and maintenance of nuclear-powered ships, such as aircraft carriers and submarines, and non-nuclear ships, such as surface combatants and expeditionary warfare and amphibious assault ships, for the u.s. navy and coastal defense surface ships for the u.s. coast guard, as well as the refueling and overhaul and inactivation of nuclear-powered ships for the u.s. navy. substantially all of our revenues in 2018 were derived from products and services sold to the u.s. government, and we expect this to continue in the foreseeable future. in addition, most of our backlog as of december 31, 2018 , was u.s. government related. our u.s. government contracts are subject to various risks, including our customers' political and budgetary constraints and processes, changes in customer short term and long term strategic plans, the timing of contract awards, significant changes in contract scheduling, intense contract and funding competition, difficulty forecasting costs and schedules for bids on developmental and sophisticated technical work, and contractor suspension or debarment in the event of certain violations of legal or regulatory requirements. any of these factors could affect our business with the u.s. government, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. significant delays or reductions in appropriations for our programs, changes in customer priorities, and potential contract terminations could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. we are directly dependent upon congressional funding of u.s. navy, u.s. coast guard, and other government agency programs . the funding of u.s. government programs is subject to congressional budget authorization and appropriation processes. for certain programs, congress appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis even though a program may be performed over several fiscal years. consequently, programs are often partially funded initially and receive additional funding only as congress makes additional appropriations. if we incur costs in excess of existing funding on a contract, we may not recover those costs unless and until additional funds are appropriated. we cannot predict the extent to which total funding or funding for individual programs will be included, increased, or reduced as part of the annual budget process or through continuing resolutions or individual supplemental appropriations. the impact of congressional actions to reduce the federal debt and resulting pressures on federal spending could adversely affect the total funding of individual contracts or funding for individual programs and delay purchasing or payment decisions by our customers. in august 2011, the budget control act (the "bca") established limits on u.s. government discretionary spending, including a reduction of defense spending by approximately $487 billion from fiscal years 2012 through 2021, representing approximately 8% of planned defense spending. the bca also provided that the defense budget would face sequestration cuts of up to an additional $500 billion during that same period to the extent that discretionary spending limits are exceeded, representing approximately 9% of planned defense spending, and $500 billion for non-defense discretionary spending, including the u.s. coast guard. the bipartisan budget act of 2018 (the bba 2018 ) provided sequestration relief for fiscal years 2018 and 2019. sequestration remains in effect, however, for fiscal years 2020 and 2021. long-term uncertainty remains with respect to overall levels of defense spending across the future years defense plan, and it is likely that u.s. government discretionary spending levels will continue to be subject to significant pressure. for additional information relating to the u.s. defense budget, see the business environment section of management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in item 7. demand for our products and services can also be affected by potential changes in customer priorities due to changes in military strategy and planning. in response to the need for cheaper alternatives and the proliferation of "smart weapons," future strategy reassessments by the dod may result in decreased demand for our shipbuilding 10 table of contents programs, including our aircraft carrier programs. for the year ended december 31, 2018 , our aircraft carrier programs accounted for approximately 32% of our consolidated revenue. we cannot predict the impact of changes to customer priorities on existing, follow-on, replacement, or future programs. a shift of priorities to programs in which we do not participate and related reductions in funding for or the termination of programs in which we do participate could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. the u.s. government generally has the ability to terminate contracts, in whole or in part, with little or no prior notice, for convenience or for default based on performance. in the event of termination of a contract for the u.s. government's convenience, a contractor is normally able to recover costs already incurred on the contract and receive profit on those costs up to the amount authorized under the contract, but not the anticipated profit that would have been earned had the contract been completed. such a termination could also result in the cancellation of future work on the related program. termination resulting from our default can expose us to various liabilities, including excess re-procurement costs, and could negatively affect our ability to compete for future contracts. any contract termination could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. cost growth on flexibly priced contracts that cannot be justified as increases in contract value due from customers exposes us to reduced profitability and to the potential loss of future business. our operating income is adversely affected when we incur certain contract costs or certain increases in contract costs that cannot be billed to customers. cost growth can occur if expenses to complete a contract increase due to technical challenges, manufacturing difficulties, delays, workforce-related issues, or inaccurate estimates used to calculate contract costs initially. reasons may include unavailability or reduced productivity of labor, the nature and complexity of the work performed, the timeliness and availability of materials, major subcontractor performance or product quality issues, performance delays, availability and timing of funding from the customer, and natural disasters. the process of estimating contract costs requires significant judgment and expertise. a significant increase in contract costs from our original cost estimates on one or more contracts could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. our ability to recover the costs we incur and realize profits on contracts with our u.s. government customers depends on the type of contract under which we are performing. our u.s. government business is currently performed under firm fixed price ("ffp"), fixed price incentive ("fpi"), cost plus incentive fee ("cpif"), cost plus fixed fee ("cpff"), cost plus award fee ("cpaf") contracts, and time and material contracts. see the contract section under management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in item 7 for descriptions of the types of contracts that comprise our business. of ingalls' revenues in 2018 , approximately 83% were generated from fpi contracts, approximately 9% were generated from cpff contracts, approximately 5% were generated from cpaf contracts, and approximately 3% were generated from ffp contracts. of newport news' 2018 revenues, approximately 40% were generated from fpi contracts, approximately 37% were generated from cpff contracts, and approximately 23% were generated from cpif contracts. of technical solutions' revenues in 2018 , approximately 31% were generated from cpff contracts, approximately 29% were generated from ffp contracts, approximately 26% were generated from time and material contracts, approximately 9% were generated from fpi contracts, approximately 3% were generated from cpif contracts, and approximately 2% were generated from cpaf contracts. to the extent our mix of contract types changes in the future, our ability to recover our costs and realize profits on our contracts could be negatively affected. our earnings and profitability depend upon our ability to perform our contracts. when agreeing to contract terms, we make assumptions and projections about future conditions and events, many of which extend over long periods. our assumptions and projections are based upon our assessments of the productivity and availability of labor, the complexity of the work to be performed, the cost and availability of materials, the impact of delayed performance, the timing of product deliveries, and other matters. we may experience significant variances from our assumptions and projections, delays in our contract performance, and variances in the timing of our product deliveries. if our actual experience differs significantly from our assumptions or projections or we incur unanticipated contract costs, the profitability of the related contracts may be adversely affected. 11 table of contents our earnings and profitability depend, in part, upon subcontractor performance and raw material and component availability and pricing. we rely on third parties to provide raw materials , major components and sub-systems , hardware elements , and sub-assemblies for our products and to perform certain services we provide to our customers, and to do so in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. disruptions and performance problems caused by our suppliers and subcontractors, or a misalignment between our contractual obligations to our customers and our agreements with our subcontractors and suppliers, could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our commitments to customers. our ability to satisfy our obligations on a timely basis could be adversely affected if one or more of our suppliers or subcontractors are unable to provide the agreed-upon products or materials or perform the agreed-upon services in a timely, compliant and cost-effective manner or otherwise fail to satisfy contractual requirements. the inability of our suppliers or subcontractors to perform could also result in the need for us to transition to alternate parties, which could result in significant incremental cost and delay, or the need for us to provide other supplemental means to support our existing suppliers and subcontractors. our costs to manufacture our products can increase over the terms of our contracts, including as a result of increases in material costs. we may be protected from increases in material costs through cost escalation provisions in contracts, to the extent that such increases are consistent with industry indices. even with these provisions, however, the difference in basis between our actual material costs and these indices may expose us to cost recovery risk. in addition, significant delays in deliveries of key raw materials, which may occur as a result of availability or price, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. in some cases, only one supplier may exist for certain components and parts required to manufacture our products. the inability of a sole source supplier to provide a necessary component or part on a timely, compliant, and cost-effective basis could increase our contract cost and affect our ability to perform our contract. our procurement practices are intended to provide quality materials and services to support our programs and to reduce the likelihood of our procurement of unauthorized, non-compliant, or deficient materials and services. we rely on our subcontractors and suppliers to comply with applicable laws, regulations, and the expectations set forth in the hii supplier code of conduct in connection with the materials and services we procure from them. in some circumstances, we rely on representations and certifications from our subcontractors and suppliers regarding their compliance. we also work with subcontractors and suppliers to conduct technical assessments, inspections, and audits, as necessary. notwithstanding the actions we take to mitigate the risk of receiving materials and services that fail to meet specifications or requirements, subcontractors and suppliers have in the past provided us with unauthorized, non-compliant, or deficient materials and services. our inability to procure, or a significant delay in acquiring, necessary raw materials, components, or parts, the failure of our subcontractors or suppliers to comply with applicable laws and regulations, inaccurate certifications from our subcontractors and suppliers regarding their compliance, or noncompliant materials, components, or parts we acquire from our subcontractors and suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. 12 table of contents changes to department of defense business practices could have a material effect on dod's procurement process and adversely impact our current programs and potential new awards. the defense industry has experienced, and we expect will continue to experience, significant changes to business practices resulting from greater dod focus on affordability, efficiencies, business systems, recovery of costs, and a reprioritization of available defense funds to key areas for future defense spending. the dod continues to adjust its procurement practices, requirements criteria, and source selection methodology in an ongoing effort to reduce costs, gain efficiencies, and enhance program management and control. we expect dod's focus on business practices to impact the contracting environment in which we operate as we and others in the industry adjust our practices to address the dod's initiatives and the reduced level of spending by the dod. depending on how these initiatives are implemented, they could have an impact on our current programs, as well as new business opportunities with the dod. in addition to dod's business practice initiatives, the dcma and dcaa have implemented cost recovery/cost savings initiatives to prioritize efforts to recover costs. as a result of certain of these initiatives, we have experienced and may continue to experience a higher number of audits and/or lengthened periods of time required to close open audits. in addition, the thresholds for certain allowable costs, including compensation costs, have been significantly reduced, and other thresholds are being challenged, debated, and, in certain cases, modified. significant changes to the thresholds for allowable costs could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. our future success depends, in part, on our ability to deliver our products and services at an affordable life cycle cost, requiring us to develop and maintain technologies, facilities, equipment, and a qualified workforce to meet the needs of current and future customers. shipbuilding is a long cycle business, and our success depends on quality, cost, and schedule performance on our contracts. our performance depends upon our ability to develop and maintain the workforce, technologies, facilities, equipment, and financial capacity needed to deliver our products and services at an affordable life cycle cost. if we fail to maintain our competitive position in these areas, we could lose future contracts to our competitors, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. our operating results are heavily dependent upon our ability to attract and retain at competitive costs a sufficient number of engineers and other employees with the necessary skills and security clearances. at the same time, future revenues and costs impact our ability to maintain a qualified workforce. development and maintenance of the necessary nuclear related skills and the challenges of hiring and training a qualified workforce can be a limitation on our business. if qualified personnel become scarce, we could experience higher labor, recruiting, or training costs to attract and retain qualified employees, or, if we fail to attract and retain qualified personnel, we could experience difficulties performing our contracts and competing for new contract awards. competition within our markets or an increase in bid protests may reduce our revenues and market share. u.s. defense spending levels are uncertain and difficult to predict. the longer term reduction in shipbuilding activity by the u.s. navy, evidenced by the reduction in fleet size from 566 ships in 1989 to 287 ships as of december 31, 2018 , has resulted in workforce reductions in the industry but little infrastructure consolidation. the general result has been fewer contracts awarded to the same fixed number of shipyards. five major private united states shipyards, two of which we own, plus many other smaller private shipyards compete for contracts to construct, overhaul, repair, and convert naval vessels. additionally, our products, such as aircraft carriers, submarines, amphibious assault ships, surface combatants, and other ships, compete for funding with each other, as well as with other defense products and services. we expect competition for future shipbuilding programs to be intense. we compete with another large defense contractor for construction contracts to build surface combatants , submarines, and large deck amphibious ships. we may in the future compete with the same and other defense contractors to build new and different classes of ships, as well as ships for which we are currently the sole source, including expeditionary warfare and other amphibious assault ships. moreover, reductions in u.s. defense spending that reduce the demand for the types of ships we build and services we provide increase our risk exposure to market competition. if we are unable to continue to compete successfully against our current or future competitors, we may experience lower revenues and market share, which could negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. 13 table of contents although we are the only company currently capable of refueling nuclear-powered aircraft carriers, two existing u.s. government-owned shipyards may be able to refuel nuclear-powered aircraft carriers if substantial investments in facilities, personnel, and training were made. u.s. government-owned shipyards currently engage in the refueling, overhaul, and inactivation of los angeles class (ssn 688) submarines and are capable of repairing and overhauling non-nuclear ships. if a u.s. government-owned shipyard became capable and engaged in the refueling of nuclear-powered aircraft carriers, our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows could be adversely affected. we also compete in the shipbuilding engineering, planning, and design market with other companies that provide engineering support services. such competition increases the risk we may not be the successful bidder on future u.s. navy engineering proposals, including aircraft carrier research and development, submarine design, and surface combatant and amphibious assault ship program contracts. our competitive environment is also affected by bid protests from unsuccessful bidders on new program awards. as the competitive environment intensifies, the number of bid protests may increase. bid protests can result in an award decision being overturned, requiring a re-bid of the contract. even when a bid protest does not result in a re-bid, resolution of the matter typically extends the time until contract performance can begin, which may reduce our earnings in the period in which the contract would otherwise be performed. as a u.s. government contractor, we are heavily regulated and could be adversely affected by changes in regulations or negative findings from a u.s. government audit or investigation. as a u.s. government contractor, we must comply with significant regulatory requirements, including those relating to procurement, cyber security, and nuclear operations. government contracting requirements increase our contract performance and compliance costs and risks and change on a routine basis. in addition, our nuclear operations are subject to an enhanced regulatory environment, which results in additional performance and compliance efforts and higher costs. new laws, regulations, or procurement requirements, or changes to existing ones (including, for example, regulations related to recovery of compensation costs, cyber security, counterfeit parts, specialty metals, and conflict minerals), can increase our performance and compliance costs and risks and reduce our profitability. we are audited and reviewed on a regular basis by the u.s. government and its various agencies, including the u.s. navy's supervisor of shipbuilding, the dcaa, and the dcma. these agencies review our contract performance, cost structures, and compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and standards, as well as the adequacy of our business systems and processes relative to u.s. government requirements. if an audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to administrative, civil, or criminal proceedings, which could result in fines, penalties, repayments, or compensatory, treble, or other damages. certain u.s. government findings against a contractor can also lead to suspension or debarment from future u.s. government contracts or the loss of export privileges . allegations of impropriety can also cause us significant reputational damage. the u.s. government also has the ability, pursuant to regulations relating to contractor business systems, to decrease or withhold contract payments if it determines significant deficiencies exist in one or more such systems. under such regulations, the u.s. government may withhold up to 5% from our interim billings on cost-reimbursement, labor-hour, and time and materials contracts containing the contractor business systems clause, which is a significant majority of our u.s. government customer contracts. in february 2018, we received the findings of an audit conducted by the dcaa citing potentially significant deficiencies in our newport news segment's business system for material management. we submitted a response in june 2018, agreeing in part and disagreeing in part with the audit findings, and we and the u.s. government continue to engage in discussions regarding the accuracy and significance of the dcaa's findings. in the event the u.s. government makes a final determination that there are remaining significant deficiencies and that our proposed corrective actions are inadequate, the u.s. government may withhold up to 5% from our interim billings on all u.s. government contracts at the newport news segment, until the u.s. government determines all significant deficiencies have been remediated, which could have a material impact on the timing of our cash receipts. the u.s. government has, from time to time, recommended that certain of our contract prices be reduced, or that certain costs allocated to our contracts be disallowed. these recommendations sometimes involve substantial dollar amounts. in response to u.s. government audits, investigations, and inquiries, we have also in the past made adjustments to our contract prices and the costs allocated to our government contracts. such audits, investigations, and inquiries may result in future reductions of our contract prices. costs we incur that are 14 table of contents determined to be unallowable or improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be recovered or must be refunded if previously reimbursed. we must comply with a variety of federal laws and regulations, including the far, the truth in negotiations act, the false claims act, the procurement integrity act, the international traffic in arms regulations promulgated under the arms export control act, the close the contractor fraud loophole act, the foreign corrupt practices act, and cas. if a determination is made that we engaged in illegal activities or we are not presently responsible , as defined under the far, we may be subject to reductions in contract values, contract modifications or terminations, penalties, fines, repayments, compensatory, treble, or other damages, or suspension or debarment, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. many of our contracts contain performance obligations that require innovative design capabilities or state-of-the-art manufacturing expertise, include technological complexity, or are dependent upon factors not wholly within our control, and failure to meet these obligations could adversely affect our profitability and future prospects. we design, develop, and manufacture products and provide services utilized by our customers in a variety of environments. problems and delays with product development or delivery of subcontractor components or services as a result of issues with design, technology, licensing and intellectual property rights, labor, learning curve assumptions, or materials and parts could prevent us from satisfying contractual requirements. first-in-class ships, also known as lead ships, usually include new technologies supplied by the u.s. navy, other contractors, or us. problems developing these new technologies or design changes in the construction process can lead to delays in the design schedule for construction. the risks associated with new technologies or mid-construction design changes can both increase the cost of a ship and delay delivery. late delivery of information can also cause inefficiencies in the construction process, increase costs, and put the delivery schedule at risk, which could adversely affect our profitability and future prospects. our products cannot always be tested and proven and are otherwise subject to unforeseen problems, including premature failure of products that cannot be accessed for repair or replacement, substandard quality or workmanship, and unplanned degradation of product performance. these failures could result in loss of life or property and could negatively affect our results of operations by causing unanticipated expenses not covered by insurance or indemnification from the customer, diversion of management attention to respond to unforeseen problems, loss of follow-on work, and, in the case of certain contracts, reimbursement to the customer of contract costs and fee payments previously received. we periodically experience quality issues with respect to products and services that we sell to our u.s. government customers. these issues can and have required significant resources to analyze the source of the deficiencies and implement corrective actions. we may discover quality issues in the future related to our products and services that require analysis and corrective action. such issues and our responses and corrective actions could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. changes in estimates used in accounting for our contracts could affect our profitability and our overall financial position. contract accounting requires judgments relative to assessing risks, estimating contract revenues and costs, and making assumptions regarding schedule and technical issues. the size and nature of many of our contracts make the estimation of total revenues and costs at completion complicated and subject to many variables. for new shipbuilding programs, we estimate, negotiate, and contract for construction of ships that are not completely designed, which subjects our risk assessments, revenue and cost estimates, and assumptions regarding schedule and technical issues to the variability of the final ship design and evolving scope of work. our judgment , estimation , and assumption processes are significant to our contract accounting, and materially different amounts can be generated if different assumptions are used or if actual events differ from our assumptions. future changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances, or estimates may have a material adverse effect on our future financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. see critical accounting policies, estimates, and judgments in item 7. 15 table of contents our business is subject to disruption caused by natural disasters, environmental disasters, and other events that could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. we have significant operations located in regions of the united states that have been and may in the future be exposed to damaging storms, such as hurricanes and floods, and environmental disasters, such as oil spills. natural disasters can disrupt our workforce, electrical and other power distribution networks, computer and internet operations and accessibility, and the critical industrial infrastructure needed for normal business operations, which could adversely affect our contract performance and, as a result, our financial results. environmental disasters, particularly oil spills in waterways and bodies of water used for the transport and testing of our ships, can disrupt the timing of performance under our contracts with the u.s. navy and the u.s. coast guard. damage and disruption resulting from natural and environmental disasters may be significant. should insurance or other risk transfer mechanisms be unavailable or insufficient to recover material costs associated with natural or environmental disasters or other events, we could experience a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. see our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover all of our significant risks or our insurers may deny coverage of material losses we incur, which could adversely affect our profitability and financial position. our suppliers and subcontractors are also subject to natural and environmental disasters that could affect their ability to deliver products or services or otherwise perform their contracts. performance failures by our subcontractors due to natural or environmental disasters may adversely affect our ability to perform our contracts, which could reduce our profitability in the event damages or other costs are not recoverable from the subcontractor, the customer, or insurers. such events could also result in a termination of the prime contract and have an adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts. in addition to the types of events described above, operation of our facilities may be disrupted by civil unrest, acts of sabotage or terrorism, and other local security issues. such events may require us to incur greater costs for security or to shut down operations for a period of time. our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover all of our significant risks or our insurers may deny coverage of material losses we incur, which could adversely affect our profitability and financial position. we seek to negotiate and enter into insurance agreements to cover our significant risks and potential liabilities, including, among others, property loss from natural disasters, product liability, and business interruption resulting from an insured property loss. in some circumstances, we may be indemnified for losses by the u.s. government, subject to the availability of appropriated funds. not every risk or liability can be protected by insurance, and, for insurable risks, the limits of coverage reasonably obtainable in the market may not be sufficient to cover the full amount of actual losses or liabilities incurred, including, for example, in the case of a catastrophic hurricane. in addition, the nature of our business makes it difficult to quantify the disruptive impact of such events. limitations on the availability of insurance coverage may result in us incurring substantial costs for uninsured losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. even in cases for which we have insurance coverage, disputes with insurance carriers over coverage may affect the timing of cash flows, and, in the event of litigation with an insurance carrier, an outcome unfavorable to us may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. our business could suffer if we are unsuccessful in negotiating new collective bargaining agreements. approximately 50% of our employees are covered by a total of nine collective bargaining agreements and two site stabilization agreements. newport news has four collective bargaining agreements covering represented employees, which expire in december 2019, november 2020, november 2021, and december 2022. the collective bargaining agreement that expires in november 2021 covers approximately 50% of newport news employees. newport news craft workers employed at the kesselring site near saratoga springs, new york are represented under an indefinite doe site agreement. ingalls has five collective bargaining agreements covering represented employees, all of which expire in march 2022. approximately 35 technical solutions craft employees at the hanford site near richland, washington are represented under an indefinite doe site stabilization agreement. collective bargaining agreements generally expire after three to five years and are subject to renegotiation at that time. while we believe we maintain good relationships with our represented workers, it is possible we may 16 table of contents experience difficulties renegotiating expiring collective bargaining agreements. we have experienced in the past work stoppages, strikes, and other labor disruptions associated with the collective bargaining of new labor agreements. if we experience such events in the future, we could incur additional expenses or work delays that could adversely affect programs served by employees who are covered by collective bargaining agreements. changes in key estimates and assumptions, such as discount rates and assumed long-term returns on assets, actual investment returns on our pension plan assets, and legislative and regulatory actions could significantly affect our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. our pension and retiree health care costs are dependent upon significant judgment regarding various estimates and assumptions, particularly with respect to the discount rate and expected long-term rates of return on plan assets, which to a large extent are reflective of the financial markets and economic conditions. changes to these estimates and assumptions and differences between expected and actual returns on plan assets could significantly impact our retirement related expense, the funded status of the plans, and contributions to our defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans, which could have material adverse effects on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. additionally, pension cost recoveries under cas for our u.s. government contracts occur in different periods from those in which pension expense is recognized under accounting principles generally accepted in the united states ("gaap") or the periods in which we make contributions to our plans, and changes to estimates and assumptions and differences between expected and actual returns could adversely affect the timing of those pension cost recoveries. unforeseen environmental costs could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. our operations are subject to and affected by a variety of existing federal, state, and local environmental protection laws and regulations. in addition, we could be affected by future laws or regulations, including those imposed in response to concerns over climate change, other aspects of the environment, or natural resources. we expect to incur future capital and operating costs to comply with current and future environmental laws and regulations, and such costs could be substantial, depending on the future proliferation of environmental rules and regulations and the extent to which we discover currently unknown environmental conditions. shipbuilding operations require the use of hazardous materials. our shipyards also generate significant quantities of wastewater, which we treat before discharging pursuant to various permits. to manage these materials, our shipyards have an extensive network of aboveground and underground storage tanks, some of which have leaked and required remediation in the past. in addition, our handling of hazardous materials has sometimes resulted in spills in our shipyards and occasionally in adjacent rivers and waterways in which we operate. our shipyards maintain extensive waste handling programs that we periodically modify, consistent with changes in applicable laws and regulations. see environmental, health and safety in item 1. various federal, state, and local environmental laws and regulations impose restrictions on the discharge of pollutants into the environment and establish standards for the transportation, storage, and disposal of toxic and hazardous wastes. substantial fines, penalties, and criminal sanctions may be imposed for noncompliance, and certain environmental laws impose joint and several "strict liability" for remediation of spills and releases of oil and hazardous substances. such laws and regulations impose liability upon a party for environmental cleanup and remediation costs and damage without regard to negligence or fault on the part of such party and could expose us to liability for the conduct of or conditions caused by third parties. in addition to fines, penalties, and criminal sanctions, environmental laws and regulations may require the installation of costly pollution control equipment or operational changes to limit pollution emissions or discharges and/or to decrease the likelihood of accidental hazardous material releases. we expect to incur future costs to comply with federal and state environmental laws and regulations related to the cleanup of pollutants released into the environment. in addition, if we are found to be in violation of the clean air act or the clean water act, the facility or facilities involved in the violation could be placed by the epa on the "excluded parties list" maintained by the general services administration, which would continue until the epa concluded that the cause of the violation was cured. facilities on the "excluded parties list" are prohibited from working on any u.s. government contract. 17 table of contents the adoption of new environmental laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, imposition of new cleanup requirements, discovery of previously unknown or more extensive contamination, litigation involving environmental impacts, our inability to recover related costs under our government contracts, or the financial insolvency of other responsible parties could cause us to incur costs that could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. market volatility and adverse capital market conditions may affect our ability to access cost-effective sources of funding and may expose us to risks associated with the financial viability of suppliers and subcontractors. the financial markets can experience high levels of volatility and disruption, reducing the availability of credit for certain issuers. we may access these markets from time to time to support certain business activities, including funding acquisitions and capital expansion projects and refinancing existing indebtedness. we may also access these markets to acquire credit support for our workers' compensation self-insurance program and letters of credit. a number of factors could cause us to incur higher borrowing costs and experience greater difficulty accessing public and private markets for debt. these factors include disruptions or declines in the global capital markets and/or a decline in our financial performance, outlook, or credit ratings. the occurrence of any or all of these events may adversely affect our ability to fund our operations, meet contractual commitments, make future investments or desirable acquisitions, or respond to competitive challenges. tightening capital markets could also adversely affect the ability of our suppliers and subcontractors to obtain financing. delays in the ability of our suppliers or subcontractors to obtain financing, or the unavailability of financing, could negatively affect their ability to perform their contracts with us and, as a result, our ability to perform our contracts. the inability of our suppliers and subcontractors to obtain financing could also result in the need for us to transition to alternate suppliers and subcontractors, which could result in significant incremental costs and delays. our reputation and our ability to do business may be impacted by the improper conduct of employees, agents, or business partners. our compliance program includes detailed compliance plans and related compliance controls, policies, procedures, and training designed to prevent and detect misconduct by employees, agents, business partners, and others working on our behalf, including suppliers and subcontractors, that would violate the laws of the jurisdictions in which we operate, including laws governing payments to government officials, the protection of export controlled or classified information, cost accounting and billing, competition, and data privacy. our business has been impacted in the past by the improper misconduct of employees and business partners, and we may not prevent all such misconduct in the future by our employees, agents, business partners, and others working on our behalf, including suppliers and subcontractors. moreover, the risk of improper conduct may be expected to increase as we expand into commercial markets and foreign jurisdictions. any improper actions by our employees, agents, business partners, and others working on our behalf, including suppliers and subcontractors, could subject us to administrative, civil, or criminal investigations and monetary and non-monetary penalties, including suspension or debarment, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. any such improper actions could also cause us significant reputational damage. our business could be negatively impacted by security threats, including cyber security threats, and related disruptions. as a defense contractor, we rely on our information technology infrastructure to process, transmit, and store electronic information, including classified and other sensitive information of the u.s. government. while we maintain stringent information security policies and protocols and implement security controls and complementary cyber security technologies in accordance with industry compliance requirements, we face cyber security threats to our information technology infrastructure, including threats to our and the u.s. government's proprietary and classified information. advanced nation state threat actors, sophisticated cybercrime syndicates, hacktivists, and insiders can pose significant threats to our information technology infrastructure and assets. while we have implemented countermeasures to address the risks posed by these threats, external and internal threat actors continuously seek ways to evade our cyber security countermeasures to gain unauthorized and unlawful access to our information technology infrastructure, assets, and data. 18 table of contents our information technology infrastructure is critical to the efficient operation of our business and essential to our ability to perform day-to-day operations. breaches of our information technology infrastructure or physical facilities could cause us to incur significant recovery and restoration expenses; degrade performance on existing contracts; and expose us to reputational damage, potential liability, or the loss of current or future contracts, including work on sensitive or classified systems for the u.s. government, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. our suppliers, subcontractors, and other business partners also face cyber security and other security threats. although we are undertaking cooperative efforts with our customers, suppliers, subcontractors, and other business partners to assist them with understanding the threats they face and potential cyber security countermeasures to defend against potential cyber-attacks launched by cyber threat actors, other security threats, and business disruptions, we rely substantially on the safeguards put in place by these entities, which may affect the security of our information. these entities have varying levels of cyber security expertise and safeguards, and their relationships with u.s. government contractors may increase the likelihood that they are targeted by the same cyber security threats we face. our nuclear operations subject us to various environmental, regulatory, financial, and other risks. the design, construction, refueling and overhaul, repair, and inactivation of nuclear-powered aircraft carriers and nuclear-powered submarines, our nuclear facilities used to support such activities, our nuclear operations at doe sites, and our activities in the commercial nuclear market subject us to various risks, including: potential liabilities relating to harmful effects on the environment and human health resulting from nuclear operations and the storage, handling, and disposal of radioactive materials, including nuclear assemblies and their components; unplanned expenditures relating to maintenance, operation, security, and repair, including repairs required by the u.s. navy, the nuclear regulatory commission, or the doe; reputational damage; potential liabilities arising out of a nuclear incident whether or not it is within our control; and regulatory noncompliance and loss of authorizations or indemnifications necessary for our operations. failure to properly handle nuclear materials could pose a health risk to humans and wildlife and could cause personal injury and property damage, including environmental contamination. if a nuclear accident were to occur, its severity could be significantly affected by the volume of the materials and the speed of corrective action taken by us and emergency response personnel, as well as other factors beyond our control, such as weather and wind conditions. actions we might take in response to an accident could result in significant costs. our nuclear operations are subject to various safety related requirements imposed by the u.s. navy, the doe, and the nuclear regulatory commission. in the event of noncompliance, these agencies may increase regulatory oversight, impose fines, or shut down our operations, depending on their assessment of the severity of the noncompliance. in addition, new or revised security and safety requirements imposed by the u.s. navy, doe, and nuclear regulatory commission could necessitate substantial capital and other expenditures. subject to certain requirements and limitations, our contracts with the u.s. navy and doe generally provide for indemnity by the u.s. government for costs arising out of or resulting from our nuclear operations. we may not, however, be indemnified for all liabilities we may incur in connection with our nuclear operations. to mitigate risks related to our commercial nuclear operations, we rely primarily on insurance carried by nuclear facility operators and our own limited insurance for losses in excess of the coverage of facility operators. such insurance, however, may not be sufficient to cover our costs in the event of an accident or business interruption relating to our commercial nuclear operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. 19 table of contents changes in future business conditions could cause business investments, recorded goodwill, and/or purchased intangible assets to become impaired, resulting in substantial losses and write-downs that would reduce our operating income. as part of our business strategy, we acquire non-controlling and controlling interests in businesses. we make acquisitions and investments following careful analysis and due diligence processes designed to achieve a desired return or strategic objective. business acquisitions involve estimates, assumptions, and judgments to determine acquisition prices, which are allocated among acquired assets, including goodwill, based upon fair market values. notwithstanding our analyses, due diligence processes, and business integration efforts, actual operating results of acquired businesses may vary significantly from initial estimates. in such events, we may be required to write down our carrying value of the related goodwill and/or purchased intangible assets. in addition, declines in the trading price of our common stock or the market as a whole can result in goodwill and/or purchased intangible asset impairment charges associated with our existing businesses. as of december 31, 2018 , goodwill and purchased intangible assets generated from prior business acquisitions accounted for approximately 20% and 8% , respectively, of our total assets. we evaluate goodwill values for impairment annually on november 30, or when evidence of potential impairment exists. we also evaluate the values of purchased intangible assets when evidence of potential impairment exists. the impairment tests are based on several factors requiring judgments. as a general matter, a significant decrease in expected cash flows or changes in market conditions may indicate potential impairment of recorded goodwill or purchased intangible assets. adverse equity market conditions that result in a decline in market multiples and the trading price of our common stock, or other events, such as reductions in future contract awards or significant adverse changes in our operating margins or the operating results of acquired businesses that vary significantly from projected results on which purchase prices are based, could result in an impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets. any such impairments that result in us recording additional goodwill or intangible asset impairment charges could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. unanticipated changes in our tax provisions or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability and cash flow. we are subject to income taxes in various jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of business, the ultimate taxability of many of our transactions and calculations is uncertain. in addition, timing differences in the recognition of contract income for financial statement purposes and for income tax purposes can cause uncertainty with respect to the timing of income tax payments, which can have a significant impact on cash flow in a particular period. changes in applicable income tax laws and regulations, or their interpretation, could result in higher or lower income tax rates or changes in the taxability of certain transactions or the deductibility of certain expenses, thereby affecting our income tax expense and profitability. on december 22, 2017, the tax cuts and jobs act (the "tax act") was signed into law. the tax act provided for significant changes to the u.s. internal revenue code of 1986, as amended, that impact corporations, including a reduction in the federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% and changes or limitations to certain deductions. while our accounting for provisional adjustments made in the 2017 financial statements for impacts from the tax act was completed in 2018, the internal revenue service ("irs") did not issue guidance on all elements of the tax act in 2018. accordingly, there remain certain elements of the tax act for which we cannot determine the full effects on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows in future years. see note 13: income taxes in item 8. in addition, the final results of any tax audits or related litigation could be materially different from our related historical income tax provisions and accruals. changes in our tax rate as a result of changes in our overall profitability, changes in tax legislation, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in differences between financial statement income and taxable income, the examination of previously filed tax returns by taxing authorities, and continuing assessments of our tax exposures can also impact our tax liabilities and affect our income tax expense, profitability, and cash flow. 20 table of contents we conduct a portion of our operations through joint ventures and strategic alliances. we may have limited control over such arrangements and experience returns that are not proportional to the risks and resources we contribute. we conduct a portion of our operations through joint ventures with business partners. in any joint venture arrangement, differences of opinions among the joint venture participants may result in delayed decisions or failures to reach agreement on major issues. we and our joint venture partners may, in certain instances, fail to reach agreement on significant decisions on a timely basis, or at all. we also cannot control the actions of our joint venture partners, including any non-performance, default, or bankruptcy of our joint venture partners, and we typically share liability or have joint and/or several liability with our joint venture partners for joint venture matters. any of these factors could potentially have a material adverse effect on our joint venture operations and the profitability of our joint ventures. in joint ventures in which we hold a minority interest, we have limited control over many decisions relating to joint venture operations and internal controls relating to operations. these joint ventures may not be subject to the same requirements regarding internal controls and internal control reporting that apply to us. as a result, internal control issues may arise that could have a material adverse effect on the joint venture. in addition, to establish or preserve relationships with our joint venture partners, we may agree to assume risks and contribute resources that are proportionately greater than the returns we expect to receive in the related joint venture. such agreements may reduce our income and returns on these investments compared to what we would have received if our assumed risks and contributed resources were proportionate to our returns. strategic acquisitions and investments we pursue involve risks and uncertainties. as part of our business strategy, we review, evaluate, and consider potential acquisitions and investments. in evaluating such transactions, we make significant judgments regarding the value of business opportunities, technologies, and other assets, the risks and costs of potential liabilities, and the future prospects of business opportunities. acquisitions and investments also involve other risks and uncertainties, including the difficulty of integrating acquired businesses, challenges achieving strategic objectives and other benefits anticipated from acquisitions or investments, the diversion of management attention and resources from our existing operations and other initiatives, the potential impairment of acquired assets, and the potential loss of key employees of acquired businesses. our financial results, business, and future prospects could be adversely affected by unanticipated performance issues at acquired businesses, transaction-related charges, unexpected liabilities, amortization of expenses related to purchased intangible assets, and charges for impairments of goodwill and purchased intangible assets. we are subject to claims and litigation that could ultimately be resolved against us, requiring future material cash payments and/or future material charges against our operating income, materially impairing our financial position or cash flows. the size, nature, and complexity of our business make it highly susceptible to claims and litigation. we are subject to various administrative, civil, and criminal litigation, environmental claims, income tax proceedings, compliance proceedings, claims, and investigations, which could divert financial and management resources and result in fines, penalties, compensatory, treble or other damages, or nonmonetary sanctions. government regulations also provide that certain allegations against a contractor may lead to suspension or debarment from government contracts or suspension of export privileges. suspension or debarment could have a material adverse effect on us because of our reliance on government contracts and authorizations. litigation, claims, or investigations, if ultimately resolved against us, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. any litigation, claim, or investigation, even if fully indemnified or insured, could negatively impact our reputation among our customers and the public and make it more difficult for us to compete effectively or acquire adequate insurance in the future. 21 table of contents we may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, which could affect our ability to compete. we own patents, trademarks, copyrights, and other forms of intellectual property related to our business, and we license intellectual property rights to and from third parties. the u.s. government generally receives non-exclusive licenses to certain intellectual property we develop in the performance of u.s. government contracts, and the u.s. government may use or authorize others to use such intellectual property. the u.s. government has begun asserting or seeking to obtain more extensive rights in intellectual property associated with its contracts, which could reduce our rights in intellectual property we develop and our ability to control the use of certain of our intellectual property rights. our intellectual property is also subject to challenge, invalidation, misappropriation, or circumvention by third parties. we also rely upon proprietary technology, information, processes, and know-how that are not protected by patents. we seek to protect this information through trade secret or confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, subcontractors, and other parties, as well as through other measures. these agreements and other measures may not, however, provide meaningful protection for our unpatented proprietary information. in the event of infringement of our intellectual property rights, breach of a confidentiality agreement, or unauthorized disclosure of proprietary information, we may not have adequate legal remedies to maintain our rights in our intellectual property. litigation to determine the scope of our rights, even if successful, could be costly and a diversion of management's attention from other aspects of our business. in addition, trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. if we are unable adequately to protect our intellectual property rights, our business could be adversely affected. we have the right to use certain intellectual property licensed to us by third parties. in instances where third parties have licensed to us the right to use their intellectual property, we may be unable in the future to secure the necessary licenses to use such intellectual property on commercially reasonable terms. there can be no assurance we will continue to increase our dividends or to repurchase shares of our common stock at current levels. the payment of cash dividends and repurchases of our common stock are subject to limitations under applicable law and the discretion of our board of directors, considered in the context of then current conditions, including our earnings, other operating results, and capital requirements. declines in asset values or increases in liabilities, including liabilities associated with benefit plans and assets and liabilities associated with taxes, can reduce stockholders' equity. a deficit in stockholders' equity could limit our ability under delaware law to pay dividends and repurchase shares in the future. in addition, the timing and amount of share repurchases under board approved share repurchase programs are within the discretion of management and depend upon many factors, including results of operations and capital requirements, as well as applicable law. our debt exposes us to certain risks. as of december 31, 2018 , we had $1.3 billion of debt under our senior notes and $1.2 billion of additional borrowing capacity under our credit agreement (the credit facility ). our credit facility also allows us to solicit lenders to provide incremental financing in an aggregate amount not to exceed $1 billion, and the indentures governing our senior notes do not limit our incurrence of debt. the amount of our existing debt, combined with our ability to incur significant amounts of debt in the future, could have important consequences, including: increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic or industry conditions; requiring us to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, strategic initiatives, and general corporate purposes; increasing our vulnerability to, and limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or the industries in which we operate; exposing us to the risk of higher interest rates on borrowings under our credit facility, which are subject to variable rates of interest; placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and limiting our ability to borrow additional funds. 22 table of contents in addition, the interest rate on variable rate indebtedness under the credit facility is based on the london interbank offered rate ( libor ). libor is the subject of recent national, international, and other regulatory guidance and proposals for reform. in july 2017, the chief executive of the u.k. financial conduct authority (the fca ), which regulates libor, announced that the fca will no longer persuade or compel banks to submit rates for the calculation of the libor benchmark after 2021. this announcement indicates that the continuation of libor on the current basis cannot and will not be guaranteed after 2021, and it appears likely that libor will be discontinued or modified by 2021. the consequences of the discontinuance of the libor benchmark cannot be entirely predicted, but could include an increase in the cost of our variable rate indebtedness. anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and delaware law, as well as regulatory requirements, could delay or prevent a change in control. certain provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws may delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that stockholders may consider favorable. for example, our restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws currently require advance notice for stockholder proposals and director nominations, and authorize our board of directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock. these provisions may discourage acquisition proposals or delay or prevent a change in control, which could harm our stock price. delaware law also imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock and us. our nuclear shipbuilding operations are considered vitally important to the u.s. navy. consequently, the u.s. navy requires us to include in our navy contracts provisions regarding notice and approval rights for the navy in the event of a change of control of our nuclear shipbuilding operations and regarding the navy's obligations to indemnify us for losses relating to our nuclear operations for the navy. such provisions require us to provide the u.s. navy with notice of any potential change of control of our nuclear shipbuilding operations and obtain the navy's consent for transferring certain related licenses to facilitate the navy's ability to ensure that a potential buyer would continue to conduct our operations in a satisfactory manner. we have included such provisions in solicitations for future u.s. navy nuclear work, and we expect them to be included in future contracts with the navy for nuclear work. provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and our restated bylaws and our existing contracts with the u.s. navy may have the effect of discouraging, delaying, or preventing a change of control of our company that may be beneficial to our stockholders. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 58 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to certain market risks, primarily related to interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. interest rates - our financial instruments potentially subject to interest rate risk include floating rate borrowings under our credit facility. our $1,250 million revolving facility under our credit facility was undrawn as of december 31, 2018 . foreign currency - we currently have, and in the future may enter into, foreign currency forward contracts to manage foreign currency exchange rate risk related to payments to suppliers denominated in foreign currencies. as of december 31, 2018 , the fair values of our outstanding foreign currency forward contracts were not significant. 58 table of contentsrisk factors 10 we operate in a heavily regulated environment and are routinely audited and reviewed by the u.s. government and its agencies, including the u.s. navy's supervisor of shipbuilding, the defense contract audit agency ("dcaa"), and the defense contract management agency ("dcma"). these agencies evaluate our contract performance, cost structures, and compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and standards, as well as the adequacy of our 5 table of contents business systems and processes relative to u.s. government requirements. our business systems subject to audit or review include our accounting systems, purchasing systems, government property management systems, estimating systems, earned value management systems, and material management accounting systems. if an audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to administrative, civil, or criminal proceedings, which could result in fines, penalties, repayments, or compensatory, treble, or other damages. certain u.s. government findings against a contractor can also lead to suspension or debarment from future u.s. government contracts or the loss of export privileges . in addition, any costs we incur that are determined to be unallowable or improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be recovered or must be refunded if already reimbursed. the u.s. government has the ability to decrease or withhold contract payments if it determines significant deficiencies exist in one or more of our business systems. the u.s. government has, in certain instances, withheld contract payments upon its assessment that deficiencies exist with one or more of our business systems. although this has not materially impacted the timing of our cash receipts in the past, any such action by the u.s. government in the future could have a material impact on the timing of our cash receipts. the u.s. government generally has the ability to terminate contracts, in whole or in part, with little or no prior notice, for convenience or for default based upon performance. in the event of termination of a contract for convenience, a contractor is normally able to recover costs already incurred on the contract and profit on those costs up to the amount authorized under the contract, but not the remaining profit that would have been earned had the contract been completed. such a termination could also result in the cancellation of future work on the related program. a termination resulting from our default could expose us to various liabilities, including excess reprocurement costs, and could have a material effect on our ability to compete for future contracts. government contractors must comply with significant regulatory requirements, including those related to procurement and cyber security. our contracts with the u.s. government may result in requests for equitable adjustments ("reas"), which represent requests for the u.s. government to make appropriate adjustments to contract terms, including pricing, delivery schedule, technical requirements, or other affected terms, due to changes in the original contract requirements and resulting delays and disruption in contract performance for which the u.s. government is responsible. we submit and negotiate reas in the ordinary course of business, and large reas are not uncommon at the conclusion of both new construction and rcoh activities. reas are not considered claims under the contract disputes act of 1978, although they may be converted to such claims if we cannot reach agreement with the u.s. government. in cases where there are multiple suppliers, contracts for the construction and conversion of u.s. navy ships and submarines are generally subject to competitive bidding. in evaluating proposed prices, the u.s. navy sometimes requires bidders to submit information on pricing, estimated costs of completion, and anticipated profit margins to enable the navy to assess cost realism. the u.s. navy uses this information and other data to determine an estimated cost for each bidder. u.s. government regulations determine the contractor costs that are allowable and therefore recoverable from the government, and certain costs are not allowable and therefore are not recoverable. the u.s. government also regulates the methods by which allowable costs, including overhead, are allocated to government contracts. our business, our contracts with various agencies of the u.s. government, and our subcontracts with other prime contractors are subject to a variety of laws and regulations, including the federal acquisition regulation ("far"), the defense federal acquisition regulation supplement ("dfars"), the truth in negotiations act, the procurement integrity act, the false claims act, u.s. cost accounting standards ("cas"), the international traffic in arms regulations promulgated under the arms export control act, the close the contractor fraud loophole act, and the foreign corrupt practices act. we are also subject to evolving cyber security and data privacy and protection laws and regulations. a noncompliance determination by a government agency may result in reductions in contract values, contract modifications or terminations, penalties, fines, repayments, compensatory, treble, or other damages, or suspension or debarment. 6 table of contents competition in our primary business of designing, building, overhauling, and repairing military ships, we primarily compete with general dynamics and, to a lesser extent, smaller shipyards, one or more of which could team with a large defense contractor. intense competition related to programs, resources, and funding, and long operating cycles are key characteristics of both our business and the shipbuilding defense industry in general. it is common industry practice to share work on major programs among a number of companies. a company competing to be a prime contractor may, upon ultimate award of the contract to another party, become a subcontractor for the prime contracting party. it is not uncommon to compete for a contract award with a peer company and, simultaneously, serve as a supplier to or a customer of such competitor on other contracts. the nature of major defense programs, conducted under binding long-term contracts, allows companies that perform well to benefit from a level of program continuity not common in many industries. we believe we are well-positioned in our markets. because we are the only company currently capable of building, refueling, and inactivating the u.s. navy's nuclear-powered aircraft carriers, we believe we are in a strong competitive position to be awarded each contract to perform such activities. even so, the government periodically revisits whether refueling of nuclear-powered aircraft carriers should be performed in private or public facilities. if a u.s. government owned shipyard were to become capable and engaged in the refueling of nuclear-powered aircraft carriers, our market position could be significantly and adversely affected. while we have competed with another large defense contractor to build large deck amphibious ships, we are currently the only builder of large deck amphibious assault ships and expeditionary warfare ships for the u.s. navy, including lhas and lpds. we are also the sole builder of nscs for the u.s. coast guard. we are one of only two companies currently designing and building nuclear-powered submarines for the u.s. navy, and we are party to long-term teaming agreements with the other company for the production of both virginia class (ssn 774) fast attack nuclear submarines and columbia class (ssbn 826) ballistic missile submarines. we are one of only two companies that builds the u.s. navy's current fleet of arleigh burke class (ddg 51) destroyers and are strongly positioned to be awarded future contracts for these types of ships as well. our success in the shipbuilding defense industry depends upon our ability to develop, market, and produce our products and services at costs consistent with the u.s. navy's budget, as well as our ability to provide the workforce, technologies, facilities, equipment, and financial capacity needed to deliver those products and services with maximum efficiency. we compete with a variety of companies in the provision of services to the government, energy, and oil and gas markets. environmental, health, and safety our manufacturing operations are subject to federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. we accrue estimated costs to perform environmental remediation when we determine it is probable we will incur expenses in the future, in amounts we can reasonably estimate, to address environmental conditions at currently or formerly owned or leased operating facilities, or at sites where we are named a potentially responsible party ("prp") by the u.s. environmental protection agency ("epa") or similarly designated by another environmental agency. the inherent difficulties in estimating future environmental remediation costs, resulting from uncertainties regarding the extent of required remediation, determination of legally responsible parties, and the status of laws and regulations and their interpretations, can cause our estimated remediation costs to change. we assess the potential impact on our financial statements of future environmental remediation costs by estimating, on a site-by-site basis, the range of reasonably possible remediation costs that we could incur, taking into account currently available information at each site, the current state of technology, and our prior experience remediating contaminated sites. we review our estimates periodically and adjust them to reflect changes in facts, technology, and legal circumstances. we record accruals for environmental remediation costs on an undiscounted basis in the accounting period in which it becomes probable we have incurred a liability and the costs can be reasonably estimated. we record related insurance recoveries only when we determine that collection is probable, and we do not include any litigation costs related to environmental matters in our environmental remediation accrual. we either expense or capitalize environmental expenditures as appropriate. capitalized expenditures relate to long-lived improvements in current operating facilities. we accrue environmental remediation costs at sites involving 7 table of contents multiple parties based upon our expected share of liability, taking into account the financial viability of other jointly liable parties. we may incur remediation costs exceeding our accrued amount if other prps do not pay their allocable share of remediation costs, which could have a material effect on our business, financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. as of december 31, 2019, our probable estimable future costs for environmental remediation were immaterial. in addition, we cannot reasonably estimate remediation costs at certain of our potential environmental remediation sites. although information gained as remediation progresses may materially affect our accrued liability, we do not anticipate that future remediation expenditures will have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. we believe we are in material compliance with environmental laws and regulations, and historical environmental compliance costs have not been material to our business. we could be affected by new environmental laws or regulations, including any laws and regulations enacted in response to concerns over climate change, other aspects of the environment, or natural resources. we have made investments we believe are necessary to comply with environmental laws, but we expect to incur future capital and operating costs to comply with current and future environmental laws and regulations. we do not currently believe such costs will have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. with regard to occupational health and safety, the shipbuilding and ship repair industry includes exposure to hazardous materials and processes. according to the bureau of labor statistics, the shipbuilding and ship repair industry (naics 336611) ranks among the highest in several injury metrics. we have experienced three fatalities in the past eight years. we strive to keep our occupational safety and health administration ("osha") compliance programs strong. the u.s. navy, nuclear regulatory commission, and doe each regulate and control various matters relating to our nuclear operations and nuclear materials. subject to certain requirements and limitations, our contracts with the u.s. navy and doe generally provide for indemnity by the u.s. government for losses resulting from our nuclear operations. for our commercial nuclear operations, we rely primarily on insurance carried by nuclear facility operators for risk mitigation, and we maintain limited insurance coverage for losses in excess of the coverage of facility operators. employees we have approximately 42,000 employees. we are the largest industrial employer in virginia and the largest private employer in mississippi. we employ individuals specializing in 19 crafts and trades, with approximately 6,800 engineers and designers and approximately 2,500 employees with advanced degrees. our workforce contains many third-, fourth-, and fifth-generation employees, and approximately 1,380 employees with more than 40 years of continuous service. employees in our shipbuilding divisions with more than 40 years of continuous service achieve the honor of master shipbuilder. as of december 31, 2019, we had 1,057 master shipbuilders at newport news and 303 at ingalls. we employ more than 7,400 veterans across the enterprise. more than 1,900 apprentices are trained by our two shipbuilding segments each year in more than 27 crafts and advanced programs. from nuclear pipe welders to senior executives, we employ approximately 4,300 apprentice school alumni, 2,850 at newport news, 1,400 at ingalls, and 50 at technical solutions. approximately 50% of our employees are covered by a total of nine collective bargaining agreements and two site stabilization agreements. newport news has four collective bargaining agreements covering represented employees, which expire in november 2020, november 2021, december 2022, and april 2024. the collective bargaining agreement that expires in november 2021 covers approximately 50% of newport news employees. newport news craft workers employed at the kesselring site near saratoga springs, new york are represented under an indefinite doe site agreement. ingalls has five collective bargaining agreements covering represented employees, all of which expire in march 2022. approximately 50 technical solutions employees at various locations are represented by unions and perform work under collective bargaining agreements. we believe our relationship with our employees is satisfactory. 8 table of contents available information our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, and current reports on form 8-k, as well as any amendments to those reports, are available free of charge through our website after we file them with the securities and exchange commission ("sec"). you can learn more about us by reviewing our sec filings on the investor relations page on our website at www.huntingtoningalls.com. the sec also maintains a website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy statements, and other information about sec registrants, including us. forward-looking statements statements in this annual report on form 10-k and in our other filings with the sec, as well as other statements we may make from time to time, other than statements of historical fact, constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in these statements. factors that may cause such differences include: changes in government and customer priorities and requirements (including government budgetary constraints, shifts in defense spending, and changes in customer short-range and long-range plans); our ability to estimate our future contract costs and perform our contracts effectively; changes in procurement processes and government regulations and our ability to comply with such requirements; our ability to deliver our products and services at an affordable life cycle cost and compete within our markets; natural and environmental disasters and political instability; our ability to execute our strategic plan, including with respect to share repurchases, dividends, capital expenditures, and strategic acquisitions; adverse economic conditions in the united states and globally; changes in key estimates and assumptions regarding our pension and retiree health care costs; security threats, including cyber security threats, and related disruptions; and other risk factors discussed herein and in our other filings with the sec. there may be other risks and uncertainties that we are unable to predict at this time or that we currently do not expect to have a material adverse effect on our business, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements. you should not place undue reliance on any forward looking statements that we may make. 9 table of contents item 1a. risk factors an investment in our common stock or debt securities involves risks and uncertainties. we seek to identify, manage, and mitigate risks to our business, but risk and uncertainty cannot be eliminated or necessarily predicted. you should consider the following factors carefully, in addition to the other information contained in this annual report on form 10-k, before deciding to purchase our securities. we depend heavily on the u.s. government for substantially all of our business, and risks that arise from conducting business with the u.s. government could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. our business consists primarily of the design, construction, repair, and maintenance of nuclear-powered ships and non-nuclear ships for the u.s. navy and coastal defense surface ships for the u.s. coast guard, as well as the refueling and overhaul and inactivation of nuclear-powered ships for the u.s. navy. we also provide fleet sustainment services to the u.s. navy, it and mission-based solutions for the dod and intelligence and federal civilian customers, and nuclear management and operations and environmental management services for the doe and dod. substantially all of our revenues in 2019 were derived from products and services sold to the u.s. government, and we expect this to continue in the foreseeable future. in addition, substantially all of our backlog as of december 31, 2019, was u.s. government related. our u.s. government contracts are subject to various risks, including customer political and budgetary constraints and processes, changes in customer short term and long term strategic plans, the timing of contract awards, significant changes in contract scheduling, intense contract and funding competition, difficulty forecasting costs and schedules for bids on developmental and sophisticated technical work, and contractor suspension or debarment in the event of certain violations of legal or regulatory requirements. any of these factors could affect our business with the u.s. government, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. significant delays or reductions in appropriations for our programs, changes in customer priorities, and potential contract terminations could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. we are directly dependent upon congressional funding of u.s. navy, u.s. coast guard, and other government agency programs . the funding of u.s. government programs is subject to congressional budget authorization and appropriation processes. for certain programs, congress appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis even though a program may be performed over several fiscal years. as a result, a program may be funded initially on a partial basis and receive additional funding only as congress makes additional appropriations. if we incur costs in excess of existing funding on a contract, we may not recover those costs unless and until additional funds are appropriated. we cannot predict the extent to which total funding or funding for individual programs will be included, increased, or reduced as part of the annual budget process or through continuing resolutions or individual supplemental appropriations. the impact of congressional actions to reduce the federal debt and resulting pressures on federal spending could adversely affect the total funding of individual contracts or funding for individual programs and delay purchasing or payment decisions by our customers. long-term uncertainty exists with respect to overall levels of defense spending across the future years defense plan. it is likely that u.s. government discretionary spending levels, including defense spending, will continue to be subject to significant pressure. for additional information relating to the u.s. defense budget, see the business environment section of management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in item 7. demand for our products and services can also be affected by shifts in customer priorities resulting from changes in military strategy and planning. in response to the need for cheaper alternatives and the proliferation of "smart weapons," future strategy reassessments by the dod may result in decreased demand for our shipbuilding programs, including our aircraft carrier programs. for the year ended december 31, 2019, our aircraft carrier programs accounted for approximately 32% of our consolidated revenue. we cannot predict the impact of changes to customer priorities on existing, follow-on, replacement, or future programs. a shift of priorities to programs in which we do not participate and related reductions in funding for or the termination of programs in which we do participate could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. the u.s. government generally has the ability to terminate contracts, in whole or in part, with little or no prior notice, for convenience or for default based upon performance. in the event of termination of a contract for the 10 table of contents u.s. government's convenience, a contractor is normally able to recover costs already incurred on the contract and profit on those costs up to the amount authorized under the contract, but not the profit that would have been earned had the contract been completed. such a termination could also result in the cancellation of future work on the related program. a termination resulting from our default can expose us to various liabilities, including excess re-procurement costs, and could negatively affect our ability to compete for future contracts. any contract termination could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. cost growth on flexibly priced contracts that does not result in higher contract value due from customers reduces our profit and exposes us to the potential loss of future business. our operating income is adversely affected when we incur certain contract costs or certain increases in contract costs that cannot be billed to customers. cost growth can occur if expenses to complete a contract increase due to technical challenges, manufacturing difficulties, delays, workforce-related issues, or inaccurate estimates used for the initial calculation of contract costs. reasons may include labor unavailability or reduced productivity, the nature and complexity of the work performed, the timeliness and availability of materials, major subcontractor performance or product quality issues, performance delays, availability and timing of funding from the customer, and natural disasters. the process of estimating contract costs requires significant judgment and expertise. a significant increase in contract costs from our original cost estimates on one or more contracts could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. our ability to recover costs and realize profits on contracts with our u.s. government customers depends upon the type of contract under which we are performing. our u.s. government business is currently performed under firm fixed-price, fixed-price incentive, cost-type, and time and material contracts. under firm fixed price contracts, we agree to perform the specified work for a pre-determined price. to the extent our actual costs vary from the estimates upon which the price was negotiated, we will generate more or less profit or could incur a loss. some firm fixed-price contracts have a performance-based component under which we may earn incentive payments or incur financial penalties based upon our performance. fixed-price incentive contracts provide for reimbursement of the contractor's allowable costs incurred in performance of the contract, subject to a cost-share limit that impacts the profit on the contract. cost-type contracts provide for the payment of allowable costs incurred during performance of the contract plus a fee up to a ceiling based on the amount that has been funded. under time and material contracts, we are paid for direct labor hours incurred at specified hourly rates plus material costs. see the contract section under management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in item 7 for descriptions of the types of contracts that comprise our business. approximately 4% of our revenues in 2019 were generated under firm fixed-price contracts, approximately 50% were generated under fixed price incentive contracts, approximately 42% were generated under cost-type contracts, and approximately 4% were generated under time and material contracts. our failure to perform to customer expectations and contract requirements may result in reduced fees or losses and affect our financial performance. under each type of contract, if we are unable to control costs, our operating results could be adversely affected, particularly if we are unable to justify an increase in contract value to our customers. cost overruns or the failure to perform on existing programs also may adversely affect our ability to retain existing programs and win future contract awards. to the extent our mix of contract types changes in the future, our ability to recover our costs and realize profits on our contracts could be negatively affected. our earnings and profitability depend upon our ability to perform our contracts. when agreeing to contract terms, we make assumptions and projections about future conditions and events, many of which extend over long periods. our assumptions and projections are based upon our assessments of the productivity and availability of labor, the complexity of the work to be performed, the cost and availability of materials, the impact of delayed performance, the timing of product deliveries, and other matters. we may experience significant variances from our assumptions and projections, contract performance schedule delays, and variances in the timing of our product deliveries. if our actual experience differs significantly from our assumptions or projections or we incur unanticipated contract costs, the profitability of the related contracts may be adversely affected. 11 table of contents our earnings and profitability depend, in part, upon subcontractor performance and raw material and component availability and pricing. we rely on third parties to provide raw materials , major components and sub-systems , hardware elements , and sub-assemblies for our products and to perform certain services we provide to our customers, and to do so in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. disruptions and performance problems caused by our suppliers and subcontractors, or misalignments between our contractual obligations to our customers and our agreements with our subcontractors and suppliers, could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our commitments to customers. our ability to satisfy our obligations on a timely basis could be adversely affected if one or more of our suppliers or subcontractors are unable to provide agreed-upon products or materials or perform agreed-upon services in a timely, compliant and cost-effective manner or they otherwise fail to satisfy contractual requirements. the inability of our suppliers or subcontractors to meet expectations could also result in the need for us to transition to alternate parties, which could result in significant incremental cost and delay, or the need for us to provide other supplemental support to our existing suppliers and subcontractors. our costs to manufacture our products can increase over the terms of our contracts, including as a result of increases in material costs. although we may be protected from increases in material costs through contract cost escalation provisions, the difference in basis between our actual material costs and industry indices may expose us to cost recovery risk. in addition, significant delays in deliveries of key raw materials, which may occur as a result of availability or pricing, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. in some cases, only one supplier may exist for certain components and parts required to manufacture our products. the inability of a sole source supplier to provide a necessary component or part on a timely, compliant, and cost-effective basis could increase our contract cost and affect our ability to perform our contract. our procurement practices are intended to provide quality materials and services to support our programs and to reduce the likelihood of our procurement of unauthorized, non-compliant, or deficient materials and services. we rely on our subcontractors and suppliers to comply with applicable laws, regulations, and the expectations set forth in the hii supplier code of conduct in connection with the materials and services we procure. in some circumstances, we rely on representations and certifications from our subcontractors and suppliers regarding their compliance. we also conduct technical assessments, inspections, and audits, as necessary, with subcontractors and suppliers. notwithstanding the actions we take to mitigate the risk of receiving materials and services that fail to meet specifications or requirements, subcontractors and suppliers sometimes provide us with unauthorized, non-compliant, or deficient materials and services. our inability to procure, or a significant delay in acquiring, necessary raw materials, components, or parts, the failure of our subcontractors or suppliers to comply with applicable laws and regulations, inaccurate certifications from our subcontractors and suppliers regarding their compliance, or noncompliant materials, components, or parts from our subcontractors and suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. changes to department of defense business practices could have a material effect on dod's procurement process and adversely impact our current programs and potential new awards. our industry has experienced, and we expect will continue to experience, significant changes to business practices resulting from greater focus on affordability, efficiencies, business systems, recovery of costs, and a reprioritization of defense funds to key areas for future defense spending. these initiatives and changes to procurement practices may change the way u.s. government contracts are solicited, negotiated, and managed, which may affect whether and how we pursue opportunities to provide our products and services to the u.s. government, including the terms and conditions under which we do so, which may have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. changes in procurement practices favoring incentive-based fee arrangements, different award fee criteria, non-traditional contract provisions, and government contract negotiation offers that mandate what our costs should be may affect our profitability and predictability of our profit rates. the u.s. government is also pursuing alternatives to shift additional responsibility and performance risks to the contractor. 12 table of contents in addition to dod's business practice initiatives, the dcma and dcaa have implemented cost recovery/cost savings initiatives to prioritize cost recovery/savings. as a result of certain of these initiatives, we have experienced and may continue to experience a higher number of audits and/or lengthened periods of time required to close open audits. moreover, the thresholds for certain allowable costs, including compensation costs, have been significantly reduced, and the allowability of other types of costs are being challenged, debated, and, in certain cases, modified. significant changes to the thresholds for allowable costs or the allowability of certain costs could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. our future success depends, in part, on our ability to deliver our products and services at an affordable life cycle cost, requiring us to develop and maintain technologies, facilities, equipment, and a qualified workforce to meet the needs of current and future customers. shipbuilding is a long cycle business, and our success depends on quality, cost, and schedule performance on our contracts. in turn, our performance depends upon our ability to develop and maintain the workforce, technologies, facilities, equipment, and financial capacity to deliver our products and services at an affordable life cycle cost. if we fail to maintain our competitive position in these areas, we could lose future contracts to our competitors, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. our operating results are heavily dependent upon our ability to attract and retain at competitive costs a sufficient number of engineers and other employees with the necessary skills and security clearances. at the same time, future revenues and costs impact our ability to maintain a qualified workforce. development and maintenance of the necessary nuclear related skills and the challenges of hiring and training a qualified workforce can be a limitation on our business. if qualified personnel become scarce, we could experience higher labor, recruiting, or training costs to attract and retain qualified employees, or, if we fail to attract and retain qualified personnel, we could experience difficulties performing our contracts and competing for new contract awards. competition within our markets or an increase in bid protests may reduce our revenues and market share. u.s. defense spending levels are uncertain and difficult to predict. a longer term reduction in shipbuilding activity by the u.s. navy, evidenced by the reduction in fleet size from 566 ships in 1989 to 293 ships as of december 31, 2019, has resulted in workforce reductions but little infrastructure consolidation. the general result has been fewer contracts awarded to the same fixed number of shipyards. five major private united states shipyards, two of which we own, plus many other smaller private shipyards compete for contracts to construct, overhaul, repair, and convert naval vessels. additionally, our products, such as aircraft carriers, submarines, amphibious assault ships, surface combatants, and other ships, compete for funding with each other, as well as with other defense products and services. we expect competition for future shipbuilding programs to be intense. we compete with another large defense contractor for contracts to build surface combatants , submarines, and large deck amphibious ships. we may compete in the future with the same and other defense contractors to build new and different classes of ships, as well as ships for which we are currently the sole source, including expeditionary warfare and amphibious assault ships. moreover, reductions in u.s. defense spending that reduce the demand for the types of ships we build and services we provide increase our risk exposure to market competition. if we are unable to continue to compete successfully against our current or future competitors, we may experience lower revenues and market share, which could negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. although we are the only company currently capable of refueling nuclear-powered aircraft carriers, two existing u.s. government-owned shipyards may be able to refuel nuclear-powered aircraft carriers if substantial investments in facilities, personnel, and training were made. u.s. government-owned shipyards currently engage in the refueling, overhaul, and inactivation of los angeles class (ssn 688) submarines and are capable of repairing and overhauling non-nuclear ships. if a u.s. government-owned shipyard became capable and engaged in the refueling of nuclear-powered aircraft carriers, our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows could be adversely affected. we also compete in the shipbuilding engineering, planning, and design market with companies that provide engineering support services. such competition increases the risk we may not be the successful bidder on future u.s. navy engineering proposals, including aircraft carrier research and development, submarine design, and surface combatant and amphibious assault ship program contracts. 13 table of contents our competitive environment is also affected by bid protests from unsuccessful bidders on new program awards. as the competitive environment intensifies, the number of bid protests may increase. bid protests can result in an award decision being overturned, requiring a re-bid of the contract. even when a bid protest does not result in a re-bid, resolution of the matter typically extends the time until contract performance can begin, which can reduce our earnings in the period in which the contract would otherwise be performed. as a u.s. government contractor, we are heavily regulated and could be adversely affected by changes in regulations or negative findings from a u.s. government audit or investigation. as a u.s. government contractor, we must comply with significant regulatory requirements, including those relating to procurement, cyber security, and nuclear operations. government contracting requirements increase our contract performance and compliance costs and risks and change on a routine basis. in addition, our nuclear operations are subject to an enhanced regulatory environment, which results in further performance and compliance requirements and higher costs. new laws, regulations, or procurement requirements, or changes to existing ones (including, for example, regulations related to recovery of compensation costs, cyber security, counterfeit parts, specialty metals, and conflict minerals), can increase our performance and compliance costs and risks and reduce our profitability. we are audited and reviewed on a regular basis by the u.s. government and its various agencies, including the u.s. navy's supervisor of shipbuilding, the dcaa, and the dcma. these agencies evaluate our contract performance, cost structures, and compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and standards, as well as the adequacy of our business systems and processes relative to u.s. government requirements. if an audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to administrative, civil, or criminal proceedings, which could result in fines, penalties, repayments, or compensatory, treble, or other damages. certain u.s. government findings against a contractor can also lead to suspension or debarment from future u.s. government contracts or the loss of export privileges . allegations of impropriety can also cause significant reputational damage. the u.s. government also has the ability to decrease or withhold contract payments if it determines significant deficiencies exist in one or more of our business systems. the u.s. government has, in certain instances, withheld contract payments upon its assessment that deficiencies exist with one or more of our business systems, which can have a material impact on the timing of our cash receipts. the u.s. government has, from time to time, recommended that certain of our contract prices be reduced, or that certain costs allocated to our contracts be disallowed, which sometimes involve substantial dollar amounts. in response to u.s. government audits, investigations, and inquiries, we have also in the past made adjustments to our contract prices and costs allocated to our government contracts. such audits, investigations, and inquiries may result in future reductions of our contract prices. costs we incur that are determined to be unallowable or improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be recovered or must be refunded if previously reimbursed. we must comply with a variety of federal laws and regulations, including the far, dfars, the truth in negotiations act, the false claims act, the procurement integrity act, the international traffic in arms regulations promulgated under the arms export control act, the close the contractor fraud loophole act, the foreign corrupt practices act, and cas. if a determination is made that we engaged in illegal activities or we are not presently responsible, as defined under the far, we may be subject to reductions in contract values, contract modifications or terminations, penalties, fines, repayments, compensatory, treble, or other damages, or suspension or debarment, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. in addition, cyber security and data privacy and protection laws and regulations are evolving and present increasing compliance challenges, which increase our costs and may affect our competitiveness, cause reputational harm, and expose us to substantial fines or other penalties. 14 table of contents many of our contracts contain performance obligations that require innovative design capabilities or state-of-the-art manufacturing expertise, include complex technologies, or are dependent upon factors not wholly within our control, and failure to meet performance expectations could adversely affect our profitability and future prospects. we design, develop, and manufacture products and provide services utilized by our customers in a variety of environments. problems and delays with product development, technology implementation, or delivery of subcontractor components or services as a result of issues with design, technology, licensing and intellectual property rights, labor, learning curve assumptions, or materials and parts could prevent us from satisfying contractual requirements. first-in-class ships, also known as lead ships, usually include new technologies supplied by the u.s. navy, other contractors, or us. problems developing or implementing these new technologies or design changes in the construction process can lead to delays in the design schedule for construction. the risks associated with new technologies or mid-construction design changes can both increase the cost of a ship and delay delivery. untimely receipt of customer information can also cause inefficiencies in the construction process, increase costs, and put the delivery schedule at risk, which can adversely affect our profitability and future prospects. our products cannot always be tested and proven and are otherwise subject to unforeseen problems, including premature failure of products that cannot be accessed for repair or replacement, substandard quality or workmanship, and unplanned degradation of product performance. these failures could result in loss of life or property and could negatively affect our results of operations by causing unanticipated expenses not covered by insurance or indemnification from the customer, diversion of management attention to respond to unforeseen problems, loss of follow-on work, and, in the case of certain contracts, reimbursement to the customer of contract costs and fee payments previously received. we periodically experience quality issues with respect to products and services that we sell to our u.s. government customers. these issues can and have required significant resources to determine the source of the deficiencies and implement corrective actions. we may discover quality issues in the future related to our products and services that require analysis and corrective action. such issues and our responses and corrective actions could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. changes in estimates used in accounting for our contracts could affect our profitability and our overall financial position. contract accounting requires judgments relative to assessing risks, estimating contract revenues and costs, and making assumptions regarding schedule and technical issues. the size and nature of many of our contracts make the estimation of total revenues and costs at completion complicated and subject to many variables. for new shipbuilding programs, we estimate, negotiate, and contract for construction of ships that are not completely designed, which subjects our risk assessments, revenue and cost estimates, and assumptions regarding schedule and technical issues to the variability of the final ship design and evolving scope of work. our judgment , estimation , and assumption processes are significant to our contract accounting, and materially different amounts can be generated if different assumptions are used or if actual events differ from our assumptions. future changes in assumptions, circumstances, or estimates may have a material adverse effect on our future financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. see critical accounting policies, estimates, and judgments in item 7. our business is subject to disruption caused by natural disasters, environmental disasters, and other events that could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. we have significant operations located in regions of the united states that have been and may in the future be exposed to damaging storms, such as hurricanes and floods, and environmental disasters, such as oil spills. natural disasters can disrupt our workforce, electrical and other power distribution networks, computer and internet operations and accessibility, and critical industrial infrastructure needed for normal business operations, which can adversely affect our contract performance and, as a result, our financial results. environmental disasters, particularly oil spills in waterways and bodies of water we use for transporting and testing our ships, can cause schedule delays under our contracts with the u.s. navy and the u.s. coast guard. 15 table of contents damage and disruption resulting from natural and environmental disasters may be significant. should insurance or other risk transfer mechanisms be unavailable or insufficient to recover material costs associated with natural or environmental disasters or other events, we could experience a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. see our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover all of our significant risks or our insurers may deny coverage of material losses we incur, which could adversely affect our profitability and financial position. our suppliers and subcontractors are also subject to natural and environmental disasters that could affect their ability to deliver products or services or otherwise perform their contracts. performance failures by our subcontractors due to natural or environmental disasters may adversely affect our ability to perform our contracts, which could reduce our profitability in the event damages or other costs are not recoverable from the subcontractor, the customer, or insurers. such events could also result in a termination of the prime contract and have an adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts. in addition to the events described above, operation of our facilities may be disrupted by civil unrest, acts of sabotage or terrorism, and other local security issues. such events may require us to incur greater costs for security or to shut down operations for a period of time. our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover all of our significant risks or our insurers may deny coverage of material losses we incur, which could adversely affect our profitability and financial position. we seek to buy insurance to cover our significant risks and potential liabilities, including, among others, property loss from natural disasters, product liability, and business interruption resulting from an insured property loss. in some circumstances, we may be indemnified for losses by the u.s. government, subject to the availability of appropriated funds. not every risk or liability can be protected by insurance, and, for insurable risks, the limits of coverage we can reasonably purchase may not be sufficient to cover the full amount of actual losses or liabilities incurred, including, for example, in the case of a catastrophic hurricane. in addition, the nature of our business makes it difficult to quantify the disruptive impact and any resulting loss of such events. limitations on the availability of insurance coverage may result in us incurring substantial costs for uninsured losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. even in cases for which we have insurance coverage, disputes with insurance carriers over coverage may affect the timing of cash flows, and, in the event of litigation with an insurance carrier, an outcome unfavorable to us may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. our business could suffer if we are unsuccessful in negotiating new collective bargaining agreements. approximately 50% of our employees are covered by a total of nine collective bargaining agreements and two site stabilization agreements. newport news has four collective bargaining agreements covering represented employees, which expire in november 2020, november 2021, december 2022, and april 2024. the collective bargaining agreement that expires in november 2021 covers approximately 50% of newport news employees. newport news craft workers employed at the kesselring site near saratoga springs, new york are represented under an indefinite doe site agreement. ingalls has five collective bargaining agreements covering represented employees, all of which expire in march 2022. approximately 50 technical solutions employees at various locations are represented by unions and perform work under collective bargaining agreements. collective bargaining agreements generally expire after three to five years and are subject to renegotiation at that time. while we believe we maintain good relationships with our represented workers, it is possible we may experience difficulties renegotiating expiring collective bargaining agreements. we have experienced in the past work stoppages, strikes, and other labor disruptions associated with the collective bargaining of new labor agreements. if we experience such events in the future, we could incur additional expenses or work delays that could adversely affect programs served by employees who are covered by collective bargaining agreements. 16 table of contents changes in key estimates and assumptions, such as discount rates and assumed long-term returns on assets, actual investment returns on our pension plan assets, and legislative and regulatory actions could significantly affect our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. our pension and retiree health care costs are dependent upon significant judgment regarding various estimates and assumptions, particularly with respect to the discount rate and expected long-term rates of return on plan assets, which to a large extent are reflective of the financial markets and economic conditions. changes to these estimates and assumptions and differences between expected and actual returns on plan assets could significantly impact our retirement related expense, the funded status of the plans, and contributions to our defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans, which could have material adverse effects on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. additionally, pension cost recoveries under cas for our u.s. government contracts occur in different periods from those in which pension expense is recognized under accounting principles generally accepted in the united states ("gaap") or the periods in which we make contributions to our plans, and changes to estimates and assumptions and differences between expected and actual returns could adversely affect the timing of those pension cost recoveries. unforeseen environmental costs could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. our operations are subject to and affected by a variety of existing federal, state, and local environmental protection laws and regulations. in addition, we could be affected by future laws or regulations, including those imposed in response to concerns over climate change, other aspects of the environment, or natural resources. we expect to incur future capital and operating costs to comply with current and future environmental laws and regulations, and such costs could be substantial, depending on the future proliferation of environmental rules and regulations and the extent to which we discover currently unknown environmental conditions. shipbuilding operations require the use of hazardous materials. our shipyards also generate significant quantities of wastewater, which we treat before discharging pursuant to various permits. to manage these materials, our shipyards have an extensive network of aboveground and underground storage tanks, some of which have leaked and required remediation in the past. in addition, our handling of hazardous materials has sometimes resulted in spills in our shipyards and occasionally in adjacent rivers and waterways in which we operate. our shipyards maintain extensive waste handling programs that we periodically modify, consistent with changes in applicable laws and regulations. see environmental, health and safety in item 1. various federal, state, and local environmental laws and regulations impose restrictions on the discharge of pollutants into the environment and establish standards for the transportation, storage, and disposal of toxic and hazardous wastes. substantial fines, penalties, and criminal sanctions may be imposed for noncompliance, and certain environmental laws impose joint and several "strict liability" for remediation of spills and releases of oil and hazardous substances. such laws and regulations impose liability upon a party for environmental cleanup and remediation costs and damage without regard to negligence or fault on the part of such party and could expose us to liability for the conduct of or conditions caused by third parties. in addition to fines, penalties, and criminal sanctions, environmental laws and regulations may require the installation of costly pollution control equipment or operational changes to limit pollution emissions or discharges and/or to decrease the likelihood of accidental hazardous material releases. we anticipate future costs to comply with federal and state environmental laws and regulations related to the cleanup of pollutants released into the environment. moreover, if we violate the clean air act or the clean water act, the facility or facilities involved in the violation could be placed by the epa on the "excluded parties list" maintained by the general services administration, which would continue until the epa concluded the cause of the violation was cured. facilities on the "excluded parties list" are prohibited from working on any u.s. government contract. the adoption of new environmental laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, imposition of new cleanup requirements, discovery of previously unknown or more extensive contamination, litigation involving environmental matters, our inability to recover related costs under our government contracts, or the financial insolvency of other responsible parties could cause us to incur costs that could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. 17 table of contents market volatility and adverse capital market conditions may affect our ability to access cost-effective sources of funding and may expose us to risks associated with the financial viability of suppliers and subcontractors. the financial markets can experience high levels of volatility and disruption, reducing the availability of credit for certain issuers. we access these markets from time to time to support certain business activities, including funding acquisitions and capital expansion projects and refinancing existing indebtedness. we may also access these markets to acquire credit support for our workers' compensation self-insurance program and letters of credit. a number of factors could cause us to incur higher borrowing costs and experience greater difficulty accessing public and private markets for debt, including disruptions or declines in the global capital markets and/or a decline in our financial performance, outlook, or credit ratings. the occurrence of any or all of these events may adversely affect our ability to fund our operations, meet contractual commitments, make future investments or desirable acquisitions, or respond to competitive challenges. tightening capital markets could also adversely affect the ability of our suppliers and subcontractors to obtain financing. delays in the ability of our suppliers or subcontractors to obtain financing, or the unavailability of financing, could negatively affect their ability to perform their contracts with us and, as a result, our ability to perform our contracts. the inability of our suppliers and subcontractors to obtain financing could also result in the need for us to transition to alternate suppliers and subcontractors, which could result in us incurring significant incremental costs and delays. our reputation and our ability to conduct business may be impacted by the improper conduct of employees, agents, or business partners. our compliance program includes detailed compliance plans and related compliance controls, policies, procedures, and training designed to prevent and detect misconduct by employees, agents, business partners, and others working on our behalf, including suppliers and subcontractors, that would violate the laws of the jurisdictions in which we operate, including laws governing payments to government officials, the protection of export controlled or classified information, cost accounting and billing, competition, and data privacy. we have been impacted in the past by the misconduct of employees and business partners, and we may not prevent all such misconduct in the future by our employees, agents, business partners, and others working on our behalf, including suppliers and subcontractors. moreover, the risk of improper conduct may be expected to increase as we expand our operations into foreign jurisdictions. any improper actions by our employees, agents, business partners, and others working on our behalf, including suppliers and subcontractors, could subject us to administrative, civil, or criminal investigations and monetary and non-monetary penalties, including suspension or debarment, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. any such improper actions could also cause us significant reputational damage. we could be negatively impacted by security threats, including cyber security threats, and related disruptions. as a defense contractor, we rely on our information technology infrastructure to process, transmit, and store electronic information, including classified and other sensitive information of the u.s. government. while we maintain stringent information security policies and protocols and implement security controls and complementary cyber security technologies in compliance with industry requirements, we face substantial cyber security threats to our information technology infrastructure, including threats to our and the u.s. government's proprietary and classified information. advanced nation state threat actors, sophisticated cyber crime syndicates, hacktivists, and insiders can pose significant threats to our information technology infrastructure and assets. while we implement countermeasures to address the risks posed by these threats, external and internal threat actors continuously seek to evade our cyber security countermeasures to gain unauthorized and unlawful access to our information technology infrastructure, assets, and data. our information technology infrastructure is critical to the efficient operation of our business and essential to our ability to perform day-to-day operations. breaches of our information technology infrastructure or physical facilities could cause us to incur significant recovery and restoration expenses; degrade performance on existing contracts; and expose us to reputational damage, potential liability, or the loss of current or future contracts, including work on sensitive or classified systems for the u.s. government, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. 18 table of contents our suppliers, subcontractors, and other business partners also face cyber security and other security threats. although we undertake cooperative efforts with our customers, suppliers, subcontractors, and other business partners to assist them with understanding the threats they face and potential cyber security countermeasures to defend against potential cyber attacks, other security threats, and business disruptions, we rely substantially on the safeguards managed by these entities, which may affect the security of our information. these entities have varying levels of cyber security expertise and safeguards, and their relationships with u.s. government contractors may increase the likelihood that they are targeted by the same cyber security threats we face. our nuclear operations subject us to environmental, regulatory, financial, and other risks. the design, construction, refueling and overhaul, repair, and inactivation of nuclear-powered aircraft carriers and nuclear-powered submarines, our nuclear facilities used to support such activities, our nuclear operations at doe sites, and our activities in the commercial nuclear market subject us to various risks, including: potential liabilities relating to harmful effects on the environment and human health resulting from nuclear operations and the storage, handling, and disposal of radioactive materials, including nuclear assemblies and their components; unplanned expenditures relating to maintenance, operations, security, and repairs, including repairs required by the u.s. navy, the nuclear regulatory commission, or the doe; reputational damage; potential liabilities arising out of a nuclear incident whether or not it is within our control; and regulatory noncompliance and loss of authorizations or indemnifications necessary for our operations. failure to properly handle nuclear materials could pose a health risk to humans and wildlife and could cause personal injury and property damage, including environmental contamination. if a nuclear accident were to occur, its severity could be significantly affected by the volume of the materials and the speed of remedial actions taken by us and emergency response personnel, as well as other factors beyond our control, such as weather and wind conditions. actions we might take in response to an accident could result in significant costs. our nuclear operations are subject to various safety related requirements imposed by the u.s. navy, the doe, and the nuclear regulatory commission. in the event of noncompliance, these agencies may increase regulatory oversight, impose fines, or shut down our operations, depending on their assessment of the severity of the noncompliance. in addition, new or revised security and safety requirements imposed by the u.s. navy, doe, and nuclear regulatory commission could necessitate substantial capital and other expenditures. subject to certain requirements and limitations, our contracts with the u.s. navy and doe generally provide for indemnity by the u.s. government for costs arising out of or resulting from our nuclear operations. we may not, however, be indemnified for all liabilities we may incur in connection with our nuclear operations. to mitigate risks related to our commercial nuclear operations, we rely primarily on insurance carried by nuclear facility operators and our own limited insurance for losses in excess of the coverage of facility operators. such insurance, however, may not be sufficient to cover our costs in the event of an accident or business interruption relating to our commercial nuclear operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. changes in future business conditions could cause business investments, recorded goodwill, and/or purchased intangible assets to become impaired, resulting in substantial losses and write-downs that would reduce our operating income. as part of our business strategy, we acquire non-controlling and controlling interests in businesses. we make acquisitions and investments following careful analysis and due diligence designed to achieve a desired return or strategic objective. business acquisitions involve estimates, assumptions, and judgments to determine acquisition prices, which are allocated among acquired assets, including goodwill, based upon fair market values. notwithstanding our analyses, due diligence processes, and business integration efforts, actual operating results of acquired businesses may vary significantly from expectations. in such events, we may be required to write down our carrying value of the related goodwill and/or purchased intangible assets. in addition, declines in the trading price of our common stock or the market as a whole can result in goodwill and/or purchased intangible asset impairment charges associated with our existing businesses. 19 table of contents as of december 31, 2019, goodwill and purchased intangible assets generated from prior business acquisitions accounted for approximately 20% and 7%, respectively, of our total assets. we evaluate goodwill values for impairment annually, or when evidence of potential impairment exists. we also evaluate the values of purchased intangible assets when evidence of potential impairment exists. the impairment tests are based on several factors requiring judgments. as a general matter, a significant decrease in expected cash flows or changes in market conditions may indicate potential impairment of recorded goodwill or purchased intangible assets. adverse equity market conditions that result in a decline in market multiples and the trading price of our common stock, or other events, such as reductions in future contract awards or significant adverse changes in our operating margins or the operating results of acquired businesses that vary significantly from projected results on which purchase prices are based, could result in an impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets. any such developments that result in us recording additional goodwill or intangible asset impairment charges could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. unanticipated changes in our tax provisions or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability and cash flow. we are subject to income taxes in various jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of business, the ultimate taxability of many of our transactions and calculations is uncertain. in addition, timing differences in the recognition of contract income for financial statement purposes and for income tax purposes can cause uncertainty with respect to the timing of income tax payments, which can have a significant impact on cash flow in a particular period. changes in applicable income tax laws and regulations, or their interpretation, could result in higher or lower income tax rates or changes in the taxability of certain transactions or the deductibility of certain expenses, thereby affecting our income tax expense and profitability. in addition, the final results of any tax audits or related litigation could be materially different from our related historical income tax provisions and accruals. changes in our tax rate as a result of changes in our overall profitability, changes in tax legislation, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in differences between financial statement income and taxable income, the examination of previously filed tax returns by taxing authorities, and continuing assessments of our tax exposures can also impact our tax liabilities and affect our income tax expense, profitability, and cash flow. we conduct a portion of our operations through joint ventures and strategic alliances. we may have limited control over such arrangements and experience returns that are not proportional to the risks and resources we contribute. we conduct a portion of our operations through joint ventures with business partners. in any joint venture arrangement, differences of opinions among the joint venture participants may result in delayed decisions or failures to reach agreement on major issues. we and our joint venture partners may, in certain instances, fail to reach agreement on significant decisions on a timely basis, or at all. we also cannot control the actions of our joint venture partners, including any non-performance, default, or bankruptcy of our joint venture partners, and we typically share liability or have joint and/or several liability with our joint venture partners for joint venture matters. any of these factors could potentially have a material adverse effect on our joint venture operations and the profitability of our joint ventures. in joint ventures in which we hold a minority interest, we have limited control over many decisions relating to joint venture operations and internal controls relating to operations. these joint ventures may not be subject to the same requirements regarding internal controls and internal control reporting that apply to us. as a result, internal control issues may arise that could have a material adverse effect on the joint venture. in addition, to facilitate relationships with our joint venture partners, we may agree to assume risks and contribute resources that are proportionately greater than the returns we expect to receive in the related joint venture. such agreements may reduce our income and returns on these investments compared to what we would have received if our assumed risks and contributed resources were proportionate to our returns. 20 table of contents strategic acquisitions and investments we pursue involve risks and uncertainties. as part of our business strategy, we identify and evaluate potential acquisitions and investments. when evaluating such transactions, we make significant judgments regarding the values of business opportunities, technologies, and other assets, the risks and costs of potential liabilities, and the future prospects of business opportunities. acquisitions and investments also involve other risks and uncertainties, including the difficulty of integrating acquired businesses, challenges achieving strategic objectives and other benefits anticipated from acquisitions or investments, the diversion of management attention and resources from our existing operations and other initiatives, the potential impairment of acquired assets, and the potential loss of key employees of acquired businesses. our financial results, business, and future prospects could be adversely affected by unanticipated performance issues at acquired businesses, transaction-related charges, unexpected liabilities, amortization of expenses related to purchased intangible assets, and impairment charges on goodwill and purchased intangible assets. we are subject to claims and litigation that could ultimately be resolved against us, requiring future material cash payments and/or future material charges against our operating income, materially impairing our financial position or cash flows. the size, nature, and complexity of our business make it highly susceptible to claims and litigation. we are subject to various administrative, civil, and criminal litigation, environmental claims, income tax proceedings, compliance proceedings, customer claims, and investigations, which could divert financial and management resources and result in fines, penalties, compensatory, treble or other damages, or nonmonetary sanctions. government regulations also provide that certain allegations against a contractor may lead to suspension or debarment from government contracts or suspension of export privileges. suspension or debarment could have a material adverse effect on us because of our reliance on government contracts and authorizations. litigation, claims, or investigations, if ultimately resolved against us, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. any litigation, claim, or investigation, even if fully indemnified or insured, could negatively impact our reputation among our customers and the public and make it more difficult for us to compete effectively or acquire adequate insurance in the future. we may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, which could affect our ability to compete. we own patents, trademarks, copyrights, and other forms of intellectual property related to our business, and we license intellectual property rights to and from third parties. the u.s. government generally receives non-exclusive licenses to certain intellectual property we develop in the performance of u.s. government contracts, and the u.s. government may use or authorize others to use such intellectual property. the u.s. government is taking increasingly aggressive positions both as to the intellectual property to which they believe government use rights apply and to the acquisition of broad license rights. if the u.s. government is successful in these efforts, our ability to compete and to obtain access to and use certain supplier intellectual property could be negatively affected. we also rely upon proprietary technology, information, processes, and know-how that are not protected by patents. we seek to protect this information through trade secret or confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, subcontractors, and other parties, as well as through other measures. these agreements and other measures may not, however, provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets. our intellectual property is also subject to challenge, invalidation, misappropriation, or circumvention by third parties. in the event of infringement of our intellectual property rights, breach of a confidentiality agreement, or unauthorized disclosure of proprietary information, we may not have adequate legal remedies to protect our intellectual property. litigation to determine the scope of our rights, even if successful, could be costly and a diversion of management's attention from other aspects of our business. in addition, trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. if we are unable adequately to protect our intellectual property rights, our business could be adversely affected. we have the right to use certain intellectual property licensed to us by third parties. in instances where third parties have licensed to us the right to use their intellectual property, we may be unable in the future to secure the necessary licenses to use such intellectual property on commercially reasonable terms. 21 table of contents there can be no assurance we will continue to increase our dividends or to repurchase shares of our common stock at current levels. the payment of cash dividends and repurchases of our common stock are subject to limitations under applicable law and the discretion of our board of directors, considered in the context of then current conditions, including our earnings, other operating results, and capital requirements. declines in asset values or increases in liabilities, including liabilities associated with benefit plans and assets and liabilities associated with taxes, can reduce stockholders' equity. a deficit in stockholders' equity could limit our ability under delaware law to pay dividends and repurchase shares in the future. in addition, the timing and amount of share repurchases under board approved share repurchase programs are within the discretion of management and depend upon many factors, including our share price, results of operations, and capital requirements, as well as applicable law. our debt exposes us to certain risks. as of december 31, 2019, we had $1.3 billion of debt under our senior notes and $1.2 billion of additional borrowing capacity under our credit agreement (the credit facility ). our credit facility also allows us to solicit lenders to provide incremental financing capacity in an aggregate amount not to exceed $1 billion, and the indentures governing our senior notes do not limit our incurrence of debt. the amount of our existing debt, combined with our ability to incur significant amounts of debt in the future, could have important consequences, including: increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic or industry conditions; requiring us to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, strategic initiatives, and general corporate purposes; increasing our vulnerability to, and limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or the industries in which we operate; exposing us to the risk of higher interest rates on borrowings under our credit facility and commercial paper program, which are subject to variable rates of interest; placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and limiting our ability to borrow additional funds. the interest rate on variable rate indebtedness under our credit facility is based upon the london interbank offered rate ( libor ). libor is the subject of recent national, international, and other regulatory guidance and proposals for reform. in july 2017, the chief executive of the u.k. financial conduct authority (the fca ), which regulates libor, announced that the fca will no longer persuade or compel banks to submit rates for the calculation of the libor benchmark after 2021. this announcement indicates that the continuation of libor on the current basis cannot and will not be guaranteed after 2021, and it appears likely that libor will be discontinued or modified by 2021. the consequences of the discontinuance of the libor benchmark cannot be entirely predicted, but could include an increase in the cost of our variable rate indebtedness. anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and delaware law, as well as regulatory requirements, could delay or prevent a change in control. certain provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws may delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that stockholders may consider favorable. for example, our restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws currently require advance notice for stockholder proposals and director nominations, and authorize our board of directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock. these provisions may discourage acquisition proposals or delay or prevent a change in control, which could reduce our stock price. delaware law also imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock and us. our nuclear shipbuilding operations are considered vitally important to the u.s. navy. as a result, our navy contracts include provisions regarding notice and approval rights for the navy in the event of a change of control of our nuclear shipbuilding operations and regarding the navy's obligations to indemnify us for losses relating to our nuclear operations for the navy. such provisions require us to provide the u.s. navy with notice of any potential change of control of our nuclear shipbuilding operations and obtain the navy's consent for transferring certain related licenses to facilitate the navy's ability to ensure that a potential buyer would continue to conduct our operations in a satisfactory manner. 22 table of contents provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and our restated bylaws and our existing contracts with the u.s. navy may have the effect of discouraging, delaying, or preventing a change of control of our company that may be beneficial to our stockholders. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 55 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to certain market risks, primarily related to interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. interest rates - our financial instruments potentially subject to interest rate risk include floating rate borrowings under our credit facility. our $ 1,250 million credit facility was undrawn as of december 31, 2019. foreign currency - we currently have, and in the future may enter into, foreign currency forward contracts to manage foreign currency exchange rate risk related to payments to suppliers denominated in foreign currencies. as of december 31, 2019, the fair values of our outstanding foreign currency forward contracts were not significant. 55 table of contents