risk factors 24 risk factors the volatility of crude oil prices, refined product prices and natural gas and electrical power prices may have a material adverse effect on our cash flow and results of operations. earnings and cash flows from our refining and wholesale marketing operations depend on a number of factors, including to a large extent the cost of crude oil and other refinery feedstocks, which has fluctuated significantly in recent years. while prices for refined products are influenced by the price of crude oil, the constantly changing margin between the price we pay for crude oil and other refinery feedstocks, and the prices at which we are able to sell refined products, also fluctuates significantly from time to time. these prices depend on numerous factors beyond our control, including the global supply and demand for crude oil, gasoline and other refined products, which are subject to, among other things: the level of foreign and domestic production of crude oil and refined products; availability of crude oil and refined products and the infrastructure to transport crude oil and refined products; local factors, including market conditions, the level of operations of other refineries in our markets, and the volume of refined products imported; the ability of the members of organization of the petroleum exporting countries ( opec ) to agree and maintain production controls; political instability, threatened or actual terrorist incidents, acts of war, and other global political conditions; domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; weather conditions, hurricanes or other natural disasters; the price and availability of alternative and competing fuels; and local, regional, national and worldwide economic conditions. some of these factors can vary by region and may change quickly, adding to market volatility, while others may have longer-term effects. the longer-term effects of these and other factors on prices for crude oil, refinery feedstocks and refined products are uncertain. we purchase our refinery feedstocks weeks before manufacturing and selling the refined products. price level changes during the period between purchasing feedstocks and selling the manufactured refined products from these feedstocks could have a significant impact on our financial results. we also purchase refined products manufactured by others for sale to our customers. price level changes during the periods between purchasing and selling these refined products could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. lower refining margins may reduce the amount of refined products we produce, which may reduce our revenues, income from operations or cash flows. significant reductions in margins could require us to reduce our capital expenditures or impair the carrying value of our assets. volatile prices for natural gas and electricity used by our refineries and other operations affect manufacturing and operating costs. natural gas and electricity prices have been, and will continue to be, affected by supply and demand for fuel and utility services in both local and regional markets. we are subject to interruptions of supply and increased costs as a result of our reliance on logistics assets for the transportation of crude oil, feedstocks and refined products within our business. we operate through three business segments, which primarily transport crude oil and manufacture, transport and sell transportation fuels. our refining operating segment, which owns and operates six refineries in the western united states, refines crude oil and other feedstocks into transportation fuels, such as gasoline and gasoline blendstocks, jet fuel and diesel fuel, as well as heavy fuel oils and other residual products, for sale in wholesale and bulk markets to a wide variety of customers within our markets. we rely on a variety of logistics assets including but not limited to: marine vessels, marine terminals, rail, pipelines, product terminals, storage tanks and trucks to facilitate the movement of crude oil, feedstocks and refined products within our business. some of these assets are owned and or operated by tesoro or tllp and some assets are owned and operated by third-parties. we could experience an interruption of supply or an increased cost to deliver refined products to market if the ability these logistics assets are disrupted because of accidents, natural disasters, governmental regulation, third-party action or other events out of our control. any interruptions in accessing or utilizing these logistics assets may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 24 table of contents disruption of our ability to obtain crude oil could adversely affect our operations. to maintain or increase production levels at our refineries, we must continually contract for crude oil supplies from third parties. a material decrease in crude oil production from the fields that supply our refineries as a result of depressed commodity prices, lack of drilling activity, natural production declines or otherwise, could result in a decline in the volume of crude oil available to our refineries. such an event could result in an overall decline in volumes of refined products processed at our refineries and a corresponding reduction in our cash flow. adverse changes in global economic conditions and the demand for transportation fuels may impact our business and financial condition in ways that we currently cannot predict. the u.s. economy continues to recover from the recent recession, but the risk of significant global economic downturn continues. prolonged downturns without recovery could result in declines in consumer and business confidence and spending as well as increased unemployment and reduced demand for transportation fuels. this continues to adversely affect the business and economic environment in which we operate, especially on the u.s. west coast. these conditions increase the risks associated with the creditworthiness of our suppliers, customers and business partners. the consequences of such adverse effects could include interruptions or delays in our suppliers' performance of our contracts, reductions and delays in customer purchases, delays in or the inability of customers to obtain financing to purchase our products, and bankruptcy of customers. any of these events may adversely affect our cash flow, profitability and financial condition. our business includes selling products in international markets and we are subject to risks of doing business on a global level in growing our business and supporting refinery utilization we sell products internationally, primarily to markets in mexico, south america and asia. in doing so we have exposure to the risks of doing business on a global level. these risks include economic instability and disruptions, restrictions on the transfer of funds, the imposition of duties and tariffs, transportation delays, import and export controls, changes in governmental policies, labor unrest and changing regulatory and political environments. any of these conditions could negatively impact our operating results and financial condition. the availability and cost of renewable identification numbers could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. pursuant to the 2007 energy independence and security act, the epa promulgated the renewable fuel standard 2 ( rfs2 ) regulations reflecting the increased volume of renewable fuels mandated to be blended into the nation's fuel supply. the regulations, in part, require refiners to add annually increasing amounts of renewable fuels to their petroleum products or purchase credits, known as renewable identification numbers ( rins ), in lieu of such blending. we currently purchase rins for some fuel categories on the open market in order to comply with the quantity of renewable fuels we are required to blend under the rfs2. recently, due in part to the nation's fuel supply approaching the blend wall (the 10% ethanol limit prescribed by most automobile warranties), the price of rins has been extremely volatile with the price dramatically increasing in recognition of the decrease in rins availability. while we cannot predict the future prices of rins, the costs to obtain the necessary number of rins could be material. if we are unable to pass the costs of compliance with the rfs2 on to our customers, if sufficient rins are unavailable for purchase, if we have to pay a significantly higher price for rins or if we are otherwise unable to meet the rfs2 mandates, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 25 table of contents the cost of compliance with california cap-and-trade and low carbon fuel standard could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations in california, assembly bill 32 (ab 32) requires the state to reduce its greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions to 1990 levels by 2020. two regulations implemented to achieve this goal are cap-and-trade and the low carbon fuel standard (lcfs). in 2012, the california air resource board (carb) implemented cap-and-trade. this program places a cap on ghgs and regulated entities are required to acquire a sufficient number of credits to cover their emissions. during 2013 and 2014, tesoro's only cap-and-trade obligation was from stationary emissions sources in our refineries. starting january 1, 2015, the program was expanded to include in-state sales of gasoline, diesel, and some lpgs. in 2009, carb adopted the lcfs, which requires a 10% reduction in the carbon intensity of gasoline and diesel by 2020. compliance is demonstrated by blending lower carbon intensity biofuels into gasoline and diesel or by purchasing credits. on july 15, 2013, the state of california court of appeal, fifth appellate district issued its opinion in poet, llc versus california air resources board and ruled that the original adoption of lcfs was deficient with california environmental quality act and administrative procedure act requirements. the regulation is undergoing a process of amendment and re-adoption, which is expected to be completed by the end of this year. tesoro is not able to predict the final outcome of the amendment and re-adoption process. compliance with each of these programs is demonstrated through a market-based credit system. if we are unable to pass the costs of compliance on to our customers, if sufficient credits are unavailable for purchase, if we have to pay a significantly higher price for credits, or if we are otherwise unable to meet our compliance obligation, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. meeting the requirements of evolving environmental, health and safety laws and regulations including those related to climate change could adversely affect our performance. consistent with the experience of other u.s. refiners, environmental laws and regulations have raised operating costs and require significant capital investments at our refineries. we believe that existing physical facilities at our refineries are substantially adequate to maintain compliance with existing applicable laws and regulatory requirements. however, we may be required to address conditions that may be discovered in the future and require a response. also, potentially material expenditures could be required in the future as a result of evolving environmental, health and safety, and energy laws, regulations or requirements that may be adopted or imposed in the future. future developments in federal and state laws and regulations governing environmental, health and safety and energy matters are especially difficult to predict. currently, multiple legislative and regulatory measures to address greenhouse gas emissions (including carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxides) are in various phases of consideration, promulgation or implementation. these include actions to develop national, statewide or regional programs, each of which could require reductions in our greenhouse gas emissions. requiring reductions in our greenhouse gas emissions could result in increased costs to (i) operate and maintain our facilities, (ii) install new emission controls at our facilities and (iii) administer and manage any greenhouse gas emissions programs, including acquiring emission credits or allotments. requiring reductions in our greenhouse gas emissions and increased use of renewable fuels which can be supplied by producers and marketers in other industries that supply alternative forms of energy and fuels to satisfy the requirements of our industrial, commercial and individual customers could also decrease the demand for our refined products, and could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. for example: in california, ab32 created a statewide cap on greenhouse gas emissions and requires that the state return to 1990 emission levels by 2020. ab 32 also created a low carbon fuel standard, which requires a 10% reduction in the carbon intensity of fuels by 2020. although a december 2011 california court determination that this standard is unconstitutional on certain grounds has been overturned, legal challenges on the constitutionality of the standard continue. the epa proposed regulations in 2009, that would require the reduction of emissions of greenhouse gases from light trucks and cars, and would establish permitting thresholds for stationary sources that emit greenhouse gases and require emissions controls for those sources. promulgation of the final rule on april 1, 2010, has resulted in a cascade of related rulemakings by the epa pursuant to the clean air act relative to controlling greenhouse gas emissions, including requirements that may affect permitting at our facilities. in december 2007, the energy independence and security act was enacted into federal law, which created rfs2. this standard, based on current legislation, required the total volume of renewable transportation fuels (including ethanol and advanced biofuels) sold or introduced in the u.s. to reach 18.2 billion gallons in 2014 and to increase to 36.0 billion gallons by 2022. however, the epa has proposed, but has yet to finalize, a reduced total renewable fuel and advanced biofuel requirement of 15.2 billion gallons for 2014 and has yet to propose requirements for 2015. 26 table of contents in addition, the inability of third parties to manufacture advanced biofuels may prohibit us from meeting the requirements of the energy independence and security act of 2007. regulatory and other requirements concerning the transportation of crude oil and other commodities by rail may cause increases in transportation costs or limit the amount of crude that we can transport by rail. in recent years, north american crude oil production has significantly increased and the refining industry is heavily relying on transportation by rail to deliver such crude oil to refineries. part of our strategy has been to invest in rail unloading facilities that allow for the delivery of cost-advantaged north american crude oil to the u.s. west coast. in 2012, we completed the construction of a 50 mbpd crude oil rail car unloading facility in anacortes, washington, (the anacortes rail facility ) which tllp subsequently acquired from us. the anacortes rail facility allows us to receive bakken crude oil into our anacortes refinery. we have also entered into a joint venture with savage companies to construct, own and operate a unit train unloading and marine loading terminal at the port of vancouver, washington. the construction of the terminal is subject to approval by regulatory agencies and will have a capacity up to 360 mbpd. in the last few years, there have been incidents involving rail cars carrying crude oil and other commodities in the u.s. although none of these incidents involved our rail cars, the outcome of investigations, including the implementation of new rail car standards and other regulatory requirements, could impact our operations. in 2014, the freight rail industry announced new voluntary operating practices for transportation of crude oil. these changes are designed to avoid derailments by reducing speeds in or rerouting trains around high-population areas. concurrent with these actions, the us department of transportation is expected to finalize a regulation on crude-by rail transportation (enhanced tank car standards and operational controls for high-hazard flammable trains) by mid-may 2015 that could augment as well as supersede these operating practices. viewed collectively, the impact of both actions could increase the time required to move crude oil from production areas to our refineries, increase the cost of rail transportation and decrease the efficiency of shipments of crude oil by rail within our operations. any of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. we rely upon certain critical information systems for the operation of our business, and the failure of any critical information system, including a cyber-security breach, may result in harm to our business. we are heavily dependent on our technology infrastructure and maintain and rely upon certain critical information systems for the effective operation of our business. these information systems include data network and telecommunications, internet access and our websites, and various computer hardware equipment and software applications, including those that are critical to the safe operation of our refineries, pipelines and terminals. these information systems are subject to damage or interruption from a number of potential sources including natural disasters, software viruses or other malware, power failures, cyber-attacks, and other events. to the extent that these information systems are under our control, we have implemented measures such as virus protection software, intrusion detection systems, and emergency recovery processes, to address the outlined risks. however, security measures for information systems cannot be guaranteed to be failsafe. any compromise of our data security or our inability to use or access these information systems at critical points in time could unfavorably impact the timely and efficient operation of our business and subject us to additional costs and liabilities, which could adversely affect our results. finally, federal legislation relating to cyber-security threats could impose additional requirements on our operations. security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer. in the ordinary course of our business, we collect sensitive data, including personally identifiable information of our customers using credit cards at our retail outlets. despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. although we have experienced occasional, actual or attempted breaches of our cyber-security, none of these breaches has had a material effect on our business, operations or reputation (or compromised any customer data). any such breaches could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of customer information, disrupt the services we provide to customers, and damage our reputation, any of which could adversely affect our business. 27 table of contents terrorist attacks aimed at our facilities or that impact our customers or the markets we serve could adversely affect our business. the u.s. government has issued warnings that energy assets in general, including the nation's refining, pipeline and terminal infrastructure, may be future targets of terrorist organizations. the threat of terrorist attacks has subjected our operations to increased risks. any future terrorist attacks on our facilities, those of our customers and, in some cases, those of other pipelines, could have a material adverse effect on our business. similarly, any future terrorist attacks that severely disrupt the markets we serve could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. our operating results are seasonal and typically are lower in the first and fourth quarters of the year. demand for gasoline is higher during the spring and summer months than during the winter months in most of our markets due to seasonal changes in highway traffic. as a result, our operating results for the first and fourth quarters are typically lower than for those in the second and third quarters. our inventory risk management activities are designed to manage the risk of volatile prices associated with our physical inventory and may result in substantial derivative gains and losses. we enter into derivative transactions to manage the risks from changes in the prices of crude oil, refined products, natural gas, and other feedstocks. our risk management activities are designed to manage the risk stemming from the volatile prices associated with our physical inventories and future production and may result in substantial derivatives gains and losses. we manage price risk on inventories above or below our target levels to minimize the impact these price fluctuations have on our earnings and cash flows. consequently, our results may fluctuate significantly from one reporting period to the next depending on commodity price fluctuations and our relative physical inventory positions. these transactions may also expose us to risks for financial losses; for example, if our production is less than we anticipated at the time we entered into a hedge agreement or if a counterparty to our hedge agreement fails to perform its obligations under the agreements. see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in part ii, item 7a. competition in the refining and marketing industry is intense, and an increase in competition in the markets in which we sell our products could adversely affect our earnings and profitability. we compete with a broad range of refining and marketing companies, including certain multinational oil companies. because of their geographic diversity, larger and more complex refineries, integrated operations and greater resources, some of our competitors may be better able to withstand volatile market conditions, to obtain crude oil in times of shortage and to bear the economic risks inherent in all areas of the refining industry. we are not engaged in petroleum exploration and production activities and do not produce any of the crude oil feedstocks used at our refineries. certain of our competitors, however, obtain a portion of their feedstocks from company-owned production. competitors that have their own production are at times able to offset losses from refining operations with profits from producing operations, and may be better positioned to withstand periods of depressed refining margins or feedstock shortages. in recent years there have been several refining and marketing consolidations or acquisitions between entities competing in our geographic market. these transactions could increase the future competitive pressures on us. the markets in which we compete may be impacted by competitors' plans for expansion projects and refinery improvements that could increase the production of refined products in our areas of operation and significantly affect our profitability. in addition, we compete with other industries that provide alternative means to satisfy the energy and fuel requirements of our industrial, commercial and individual consumers. the more successful these alternatives become as a result of governmental regulations, technological advances, consumer demand, improved pricing or otherwise, the greater the impact on pricing and demand for our products and our profitability. there are presently significant governmental and consumer pressures to increase the use of alternative fuels in the united states. 28 table of contents our operations are subject to operational hazards that could expose us to potentially significant losses. our operations are subject to potential operational hazards and risks inherent in refining operations and in transporting and storing crude oil and refined products. any of these risks, such as fires, explosions, maritime disasters, security breaches, pipeline ruptures and spills, mechanical failure of equipment, and severe weather and natural disasters, at our or third-party facilities, could result in business interruptions or shutdowns and damage to our properties and the properties of others. a serious accident at our facilities could also result in serious injury or death to our employees or contractors and could expose us to significant liability for personal injury claims and reputational risk. any such event or unplanned shutdown could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we carry property, casualty and business interruption insurance but we do not maintain insurance coverage against all potential losses. marine vessel charter agreements do not include indemnity provisions for oil spills so we also carry marine charterer's liability insurance. we could suffer losses for uninsurable or uninsured risks or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage. the occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance or failure by one or more insurers to honor its coverage commitments for an insured event could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. while we do not act as an owner or operator of any marine tankers, we do maintain marine charterer's liability insurance with a primary coverage of $500 million , subject to a $25,000 deductible, and an additional $500 million in umbrella policies for a total of $1.0 billion in coverage for liabilities, costs and expenses arising from a discharge of pollutants. in addition, tesoro maintains $10 million in marine terminal operator's liability coverage, subject to a $150,000 deductible, and an additional $500 million in umbrella coverage for a total of $510 million in coverage for sudden and accidental pollution events and liability arising from marine terminal operations. we cannot assure you that we will not suffer losses in excess of such coverage. a significant portion of our operating responsibility also requires us to insure the quality and purity of the products loaded at our loading racks and pipeline connections. if our quality control measures were to fail, we may have contaminated or off-specification commingled pipelines and storage tanks or off-specification product could be sent to customers and other end users. these types of incidents could result in product liability claims from our customers or other pipelines to which our pipelines connect. there can be no assurance that product liability claims against us would not have a material adverse effect on our business or results or operations or our ability to maintain existing customers or retain new customers. we may be unsuccessful in integrating the operations of the assets we have acquired or may acquire in the future, or in realizing all or any part of the anticipated benefits of any such acquisition. from time to time, we evaluate and acquire assets and businesses that we believe complement our existing assets and businesses. for example, during 2014, tllp completed the rockies natural gas business acquisition and in 2013, we completed the los angeles acquisition. we face numerous risks and challenges to successful integration of acquired businesses, including the following: the potential for unexpected costs, delays and challenges that may arise in integrating the assets acquired into our existing business; limitations on our ability to realize the expected cost savings and synergies from an acquisition; challenges related to integrating significant operations that have a company culture that differs from our own; difficulties of managing operations outside of our existing core business, which may require development of additional skills and competencies; environmental remediation obligations assumed by tesoro costing significantly more than anticipated; and discovery of previously unknown liabilities associated with the assets acquired for which we cannot receive reimbursement under applicable indemnification provisions. as a result of the rockies natural gas business acquisition, the scope and size of tllp's operations and business has substantially changed by adding substantial midstream natural gas and ngl assets and operations to its previously existing business. operating midstream natural gas and ngl assets requires different operating strategies and managerial expertise and natural gas and ngl assets are subject to additional or different regulatory requirements. consequently, we may not be able to successfully integrate and successfully manage this new line of business or to realize the expected economic benefits of the rockies natural gas business acquisition. 29 table of contents during late 2013 and 2014, we began the successful integration of the operations we acquired in the los angeles acquisition. however, the los angeles refinery integration and compliance project is a multi-year project and will require substantial capital requirements during 2015, 2016 and later years. it may not be possible to realize the full benefits we may expect from operating synergies or other benefits anticipated or realize these benefits within the expected time frame. anticipated synergies and benefits may be offset by operating losses relating to changes in commodity prices, industry conditions, failure to retain key personnel, an increase in operating or other costs or other difficulties. if we fail to realize the synergies and benefits we anticipate from either of these acquisitions, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. large capital projects can take many years to complete, and if we are unable to complete capital projects at their expected costs or in a timely manner, or if market conditions deteriorate significantly between the project approval date and the project startup date, our results of operations, cash flows or project returns could be adversely impacted. one of the ways we are growing our business is through the construction of new projects and the expansion of existing ones, such as the construction of our anacortes rail offloading facility, the vancouver energy project, the clean product upgrade project and similar projects. the construction process involves numerous regulatory, environmental, political and legal uncertainties, most of which are not fully within our control. if we are unable to complete capital projects at their expected costs or in a timely manner our results of operations or cash flows could be adversely affected. in addition, our revenues often do not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds because construction or expansion may occur over an extended period of time and we will not receive any material increases in revenues until after substantial completion of the project. to approve a large-scale capital project, the project must meet an acceptable level of return on the capital to be employed in the project. we base these forecasted project economics on our best estimate of future market conditions that are not within our control. most large-scale projects take many years to complete and during this multi-year period, market conditions can change from those we forecast due to changes in general economic conditions, available alternative supply and changes in customer demand. accordingly, we may not be able to realize our expected returns from a large investment in a capital project, and this could negatively impact our results of operations, cash flows and return on capital employed. our business may be negatively affected by work stoppages, slowdowns or strikes by our employees, as well as new labor legislation issued by regulators. currently, approximately 2,000 of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements at our anacortes, mandan, martinez, los angeles and salt lake city refineries. the agreements for approximately 1,800 of these employees expired on january 31, 2015, the agreements for approximately 28 of these employees will expire on february 28, 2015, while the agreements for the remaining represented employees expire in april 2015. even though we were in the midst of good faith negotiations with the hourly represented employees covered by the agreements expiring on january 31, 2015, we, along with several other u.s. refiners, received strike notifications on february 1, 2015. these notifications included our anacortes and martinez refineries and the carson portion of our los angeles refinery. we have a contingency plan that has prepared us to safely operate our facilities during this work stoppage and we have safely transitioned to this plan at our anacortes refinery and the carson portion of our los angeles refinery. there is no assurance an agreement will be reached with our other facilities without a strike, work stoppage or other labor action. any prolonged strike, work stoppage or other labor action could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. in september 2013, the california legislature passed legislation which requires refinery owners to pay prevailing wages to contract workers and restricts their ability to hire qualified employees to a limited pool of applicants. we continue to comply with this law, but this legislation, or amendments thereto, could result in labor shortages and higher costs, especially during critical maintenance periods. 30 table of contents our business is impacted by environmental risks inherent in our operations. the operation of refineries, pipelines, rail cars and refined products terminals is inherently subject to the risks of spills, discharges or other inadvertent releases of petroleum or hazardous substances. these events could occur in connection with any of our refineries, pipelines, rail cars or refined products terminals, or in connection with any facilities which receives our wastes or by-products for treatment or disposal. if any of these events occur, or is found to have previously occurred, we could be liable for costs and penalties associated with their remediation under federal, state and local environmental laws or common law, and could be liable for property damage to third parties caused by contamination from releases and spills. the penalties and clean-up costs that we may have to pay for releases or the amounts that we may have to pay to third parties for damages to their property, could be significant and the payment of these amounts could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we operate in and adjacent to environmentally sensitive coastal waters where tanker, pipeline, rail car and refined product transportation and storage operations are closely regulated by federal, state and local agencies and monitored by environmental interest groups. our california and pacific northwest refineries import crude oil and other feedstocks by tanker. in addition, our washington refinery receives crude oil by rail car. transportation and storage of crude oil and refined products over and adjacent to water involves inherent risk and subjects us to the provisions of the federal oil pollution act of 1990 and state laws in california, washington and alaska. among other things, these laws require us and the owners of tankers that we charter to deliver crude oil to our refineries to demonstrate in some situations the capacity to respond to a spill up to one million barrels of oil from a tanker and up to 600,000 barrels of oil from an above ground storage tank adjacent to water (a worst case discharge ) to the maximum extent possible. we and the owners of tankers we charter have contracted with various spill response service companies in the areas in which we transport and store crude oil and refined products to meet the requirements of the federal oil pollution act of 1990 and state and foreign laws. however, there may be accidents involving tankers, pipelines, rail cars or above ground storage tanks transporting or storing crude oil or refined products, and response services may not respond to a worst case discharge in a manner that will adequately contain that discharge, or we may be subject to liability in connection with a discharge. additionally, we cannot ensure that all resources of a contracted response service company could be available for our or a chartered tanker owner's use at any given time. there are many factors that could inhibit the availability of these resources, including, but not limited to, weather conditions, governmental regulations or other global events. by requirement of state or federal rulings, these resources could be diverted to respond to other global events. our operations are also subject to general environmental risks, expenses and liabilities which could affect our results of operations. from time to time we have been, and presently are, subject to litigation and investigations with respect to environmental and related matters, including product liability claims related to the oxygenate methyl tertiary butyl ether. we may become involved in further litigation or other civil or criminal proceedings, or we may be held responsible in any existing or future litigation or proceedings, the costs of which could be material. we operate and have in the past operated retail stations with underground storage tanks in various jurisdictions. federal and state regulations and legislation govern the storage tanks, and compliance with these requirements can be costly. the operation of underground storage tanks poses certain risks, including leaks. leaks from underground storage tanks, which may occur at one or more of our retail stations, or which may have occurred at our previously operated retail stations, may impact soil or groundwater and could result in fines or civil liability for us. our cash needs may exceed our internally generated cash flow, and our business could be materially and adversely affected if we are not able to obtain the necessary funds from financing activities. we have substantial cash needs. our short-term cash needs are primarily to satisfy working capital requirements, including crude oil purchases, which fluctuate with the pricing and sourcing of crude oil. our longer-term cash needs also include capital expenditures for infrastructure, environmental and regulatory compliance, maintenance turnarounds at our refineries and upgrade and business strategy projects. 31 table of contents we primarily supply our cash needs with cash generated from our operations; however, if the price of crude oil increases significantly, our cash requirements may exceed our cash flow. in such instances, we may not have sufficient borrowing capacity, and may not be able to sufficiently increase borrowing capacity under our existing credit facilities to support our short-term and long-term capital requirements. debt and equity capital markets continue to be volatile, and we may not be able to secure additional financing on terms and at a cost acceptable to us, if at all. if we cannot generate cash flow and funding is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may not be able to operate our refineries at the desired capacity, fund our capital requirements, take advantage of business opportunities, respond to competitive pressures or complete our business strategies, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we have debt obligations; therefore our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be harmed by a deterioration of our credit profile, a decrease in debt capacity or unsecured commercial credit available to us, or by factors adversely affecting credit markets generally. at december 31, 2014, our total debt obligations for borrowed money and capital lease obligations were $4.3 billion . we may incur substantial additional debt obligations in the future. our indebtedness may impose various restrictions and covenants on us that could have material adverse consequences, including: increasing our vulnerability to changing economic, regulatory and industry conditions; limiting our ability to compete and our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry; limiting our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders; limiting our ability to borrow additional funds; and requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other purposes. a decrease in our debt or commercial credit capacity, including unsecured credit extended by third-party suppliers, or a deterioration in our credit profile could increase our costs of borrowing money and/or limit our access to the capital markets and commercial credit, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. one of our subsidiaries acts as the general partner of a publicly traded master limited partnership, tesoro logistics lp, and one of its subsidiaries acts as the general partner of qep midstream partners, lp. ownership of these entities may involve a greater exposure to legal liability than our historic business operations. one of our subsidiaries acts as the general partner of tesoro logistics lp, a publicly traded master limited partnership. correspondingly, one of tllp's subsidiaries acts the general partner of qep midstream partners, lp, a publicly traded master limited partnership. our control of these general partners may increase the possibility of claims of breach of fiduciary duties including claims of conflicts of interest related to tllp or qepm. any liability resulting from such claims could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we depend upon tllp for a substantial portion of the logistics networks that serve our refineries' supply and distribution needs and have obligations for minimum volume commitments in many of our agreements with tllp. tllp provides each of our refineries with various pipeline transportation, trucking, terminal distribution and storage services under long-term, fee-based commercial agreements expiring in 2016 through 2024. these agreements contain minimum volume commitments. if we do not satisfy the minimum volume commitments, we will still be responsible for payment for transportation and storage services as if we had utilized such minimum volumes. 32 table of contents tllp's ability to continue operations could significantly impact their ability to serve our supply and distribution needs. tllp's operations are subject to all of the risks and operational hazards inherent in transporting and storing crude oil and refined products, including: damage to pipelines and facilities, related equipment and surrounding properties caused by earthquakes, floods, fires, severe weather, explosions and other natural disasters and acts of terrorism; mechanical or structural failures; curtailments of operations relative to severe weather; inadvertent damage to pipelines from construction, farm and utility equipment; and other hazards. any of these events or factors could result in severe damage or destruction to tllp's assets or the temporary or permanent shut-down of tllp's pipelines or facilities. if tllp is unable to serve our supply and distribution network needs, our ability to operate our refineries and transport refined products could be adversely impacted, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, tllp's operations are subject to environmental regulations affecting pipeline operations. in addition, we own an approximate 36% interest in tllp, including the 2% general partner interest. the inability of tllp to continue operations, or the occurrence of any of these risks or operational hazards, could also adversely impact the value of our investment in tllp and, because tllp is a consolidated variable interest entity, our business, financial condition and results of operations.