risk factors, and item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. all statements other than statements of historical fact, including without limitation statements regarding our business strategy and goals, and expectations regarding refining margins, revenues, cash flows, capital expenditures, turnaround expenses, other financial items, growth, acquisitions, our market position, future operations, margins and profitability, are forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements may be identified by use of the words anticipate, believe, could, estimate, expect, intend, may, plan, predict, project, will, would and similar terms and phrases. although we believe our assumptions concerning future events are reasonable, a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors could cause actual results and trends to differ materially from those projected, including, but not limited to: the constantly changing margin between the price we pay for crude oil and other refinery feedstocks as well as rins and environmental credits, and the prices at which we are able to sell refined products; changes in the expected value of and benefits derived from acquisitions and capital projects, including any inability to successfully integrate acquisitions, realize expected synergies or achieve operational efficiency and effectiveness; changes in global economic conditions on our business, especially in california, and the business of our suppliers, customers, business partners and credit lenders; changes in fuel and utility costs for our facilities; changes in the cost or availability of third-party vessels, pipelines and other means of transporting crude oil feedstocks and refined products; regulatory and other requirements concerning the transportation of crude oil, particularly in the areas where we operate; changes in the carrying costs of our inventory; the timing and extent of changes in commodity prices and underlying demand for our refined products, natural gas and ngls; the availability and costs of crude oil, other refinery feedstocks, refined products and rins; changes in our cash flow from operations; direct or indirect effects on our business resulting from actual or threatened terrorist incidents, cyber-security breaches or acts of war; weather conditions, earthquakes or other natural disasters affecting our operations or the areas in which our refined products are marketed; actions of customers and competitors; state and federal environmental, economic, health and safety, energy and other policies and regulations, including those related to climate change and any changes therein, and any legal or regulatory investigations, delays in obtaining necessary approvals and permits, compliance costs or other factors beyond our control; changes in tax policies or the tax status of andeavor logistics; adverse rulings, judgments, or settlements in litigation or other legal or tax matters, including unexpected environmental remediation costs in excess of any reserves; operational hazards inherent in refining operations and in transporting and storing crude oil, natural gas, ngls and refined products; changes in our credit profile; changes in capital requirements or in execution of planned capital projects; disruptions due to equipment interruption or failure at our facilities or third-party facilities; seasonal variations in demand for refined products and natural gas; risks related to labor relations and workplace safety; political developments; risks related to our expanding presence in mexico; and the factors described in greater detail under competition and government regulation and legislation in item 1 and risk factors in item 1a and our other filings with the sec. all forward-looking statements included in this report are based on information available to us on the date of this report. we undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. 4 | business as used in this annual report on form 10-k, the terms andeavor, the company, we, us or our may refer to andeavor, one or more of its consolidated subsidiaries or all of them taken as a whole. the words we, us or our generally include andeavor logistics lp ( andeavor logistics ), a publicly traded limited partnership, and its subsidiaries as consolidated subsidiaries of andeavor with certain exceptions where there are transactions or obligations between andeavor logistics and andeavor or its other subsidiaries. when used in descriptions of agreements and transactions, andeavor logistics or the partnership refers to andeavor logistics and its consolidated subsidiaries. part i part 1 should be read in conjunction with management's discussion and analysis in item 7 and our consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto in item 8. item 1. business effective august 1, 2017, tesoro corporation changed its name to andeavor. andeavor was incorporated in delaware in 1968. headquartered in san antonio, texas, our common stock trades on the new york stock exchange under the symbol andv. we are a highly integrated marketing, logistics and refining company operating primarily in the western and mid-continent united states. our business is organized into three operating segments: marketing, logistics and refining. these segments operate together to provide andeavor value from the procurement of crude oil at its source or from other third parties, transporting the crude oil to our refineries, and producing, marketing and distribution of refined products. our retail marketing system includes more than 3,250 stations marketed under multiple well-known fuel brands, including arco , shell , mobil and superamerica . we also have an approximate ownership of 59% in andeavor logistics and own its general partner. our refining operations include 10 refineries with a combined capacity of approximately 1.2 million barrels per day in the central and western united states. andeavor logistics (formerly tesoro logistics lp) is a leading growth-oriented, full-service, and diversified midstream company operating in the western and mid-continent regions of the united states. andeavor logistics owns and operates networks of crude oil, refined products and natural gas pipelines, terminals with crude oil and refined products storage capacity, rail loading and offloading facilities, marine terminals including storage, bulk petroleum distribution facilities, a trucking fleet and natural gas processing and fractionation complexes. see our discussion of our operating segments, including description of associated properties in the following section. additionally, refer to item 7 - management's discussion and analysis and note 19 to our consolidated financial statements in item 8 for additional information on our operating segments, including financial performance. the following provides an overview of our assets and operations: december 31, 2017 | 5 business 2017 acquisitions western refining acquisition and wnrl merger on june 1, 2017, we acquired western refining, inc. ( western refining ) and the controlling interest in western refining logistics lp ( wnrl ) (the western refining acquisition ). additionally, on october 30, 2017, andeavor logistics acquired with wnrl by exchanging units of andeavor logistics for all outstanding common units of wnrl (the wnrl merger ). refer to our discussion of the western refining acquisition and wnrl merger, including financial details relating to these transactions and the concurrent equity restructuring of our general partner and idr interests held in andeavor logistics at the time of the wnrl merger in item 7 - management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and the notes to our consolidated financial statements in item 8 - financial statements and supplementary data. with the western refining acquisition, we expanded our asset base and operations as follows: marketing segment: we added 544 stations to our branded network primarily under the superamerica and giant brands, including 457 company-operated stations and store management expertise to enable convenience store growth, and along with other strategic, immaterial acquisitions increased our store count to over 3,250 stations; logistics segment: through the acquisition of wnrl, we acquired assets that are strategically located providing for significant growth opportunities and access to advantaged crude oil. these assets include 705 miles of pipelines located in permian basin area of west texas and southern new mexico that gather and transport crude oil by pipeline, as well as by truck, from various production locations to the acquired el paso, texas and gallup, new mexico refineries and approximately 13 million barrels of crude oil, feedstock, blendstock, refined product and asphalt storage tanks supporting the acquired refineries and gathering pipelines; and refining segment: we acquired three refineries in el paso, gallup and st. paul park, minnesota with a total refining capacity of 262 mbpd bringing our capacity to 1.2 million barrels per day across ten refineries. as of december 31, 2017, integration of these assets and operations continues. refer to our discussion of each segment below for an understanding of how western refining's assets and operations have been integrated with our existing operations. north dakota gathering and processing assets on january 1, 2017 , andeavor logistics acquired crude oil, natural gas and produced water gathering systems and two natural gas processing facilities from whiting oil and gas corporation, gbk investments, llc and wbi energy midstream, llc (the north dakota gathering and processing assets ). the north dakota gathering and processing assets include over 650 miles of crude oil, natural gas, and produced water gathering pipelines, 170 mmcf per day of natural gas processing capacity and 18.7 mbpd of fractionation capacity in the sanish and pronghorn fields of the williston basin in north dakota. with this acquisition, andeavor logistics expanded its assets in its gathering and processing business located in the williston basin area of north dakota to further grow its integrated, full-service logistics capabilities in support of third-party demand for crude oil, natural gas and water gathering services as well as natural gas processing services. in addition, this extends andeavor logistics' capacity and capabilities by adding new origin and destination points for its common carrier pipelines in north dakota and extends our crude oil, natural gas and water gathering and associated gas processing footprint to enhance and improve overall basin logistics efficiencies. working capital we fund our business operations through a combination of available cash and cash equivalents and cash flows generated from operations. in addition, our revolving lines of credit are available for additional working capital needs. see capital resources and liquidity in item 7 for additional information regarding working capital. employees we had more than 14,300 full-time employees at december 31, 2017 , approximately 2,850 of whom are full-time represented union employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. of these employees, approximately 1,700 are covered by collective bargaining agreements expiring on february 1, 2019 with the remaining employees covered under agreements with expirations ranging from may 2019 to march 2023. guiding principles underpinning our strategies and the execution of our goals for all of our businesses is a high-performing culture where employees lead according to our guiding principles and have the opportunity to make a difference. these guiding principles are as follows: core values we act individually and collectively with the highest level of integrity and we are steadfast in our commitment to safety, health and the environment. exceptional people we employ the best people and develop our capabilities and leadership to realize our objectives. shared purpose everyone clearly understands and owns our vision, strategy, how they fit and what they are expected to contribute. 6 | business powerful collaboration we leverage the power of collaboration and our individual and collective expertise to create value and competitive advantage. superior execution we pursue and deliver our objectives with energy, passion and a sense of urgency to deliver industry-leading results. strategic priorities by following our guiding principles, we aim to achieve our strategic priorities outlined below. in addition, we take a principles-based approach to conducting our business, seeking to create shared value for key stakeholders including employees, communities, business partners, the government and the environment. high-performing culture fostering a culture that is committed to building leadership at all levels of the organization and across our value chain with employees from diverse backgrounds and experiences while being firmly grounded in our guiding principles. operational efficiency &amp; effectiveness continuously improving safety, compliance, reliability, system improvements and cost leadership. value chain optimization enhancing margin capture through our supply and trading activities, optimization of our integrated businesses and customer focus. financial discipline maintaining a strong financial position by exercising capital discipline and focusing on a balanced use of free cash flow. value-driven growth extending our capabilities and growing earnings through growth in our logistics and marketing businesses and other strategic opportunities accretive to shareholder value. shared value shared value is a way of doing business that involves considering and working with key stakeholders in service of one another, as well as the business. we think of it as a lens through which we view our roles and our decisions. shared value helps us focus on the intersection of what is important to our stakeholders and the value we create. our people - t he engagement, satisfaction and development of our people is of the utmost importance. across the enterprise, we support our team members in a range of programs aimed at providing health and wellness support, ongoing learning and development, opportunities to reward and celebrate excellent performance, and foster a diverse and inclusive environment. communities - our approach to philanthropy and community investment is both thoughtful and strategic. we work to ensure our giving supports the needs of our local communities, aligns with the passions of our people, and advances our business goals and objectives. customers and business partners - our long-term strategy is focused on growth and transformation to generate strong cash flow for the health of our business and on behalf of our shareholders. we are also committed to providing a wide range of customers with a reliable supply of high-quality products and outstanding customer service. environment - we continue our focus on environmental stewardship, and strive to improve operational efficiency and effectiveness to reduce emissions, waste and water use, while pursuing business opportunities that enable efficient use of resources. government - we are a trusted and credible voice to government, working to find solutions to issues of mutual interest. health and safety improving personal and process safety is a core value at andeavor. we are committed to operating our refineries, pipelines, retail stations and other facilities in a manner that promotes the health and safety of our employees, our customers and the communities where we do business. the pursuit of continually improving our safety performance led to a program approach, which we call destination zero. our intent is to promulgate a belief across the organization that an incident free workplace is possible, then engaging employees in meaningful ways to achieve it. increasingly impressive examples of destination zero are celebrated, powerfully shared across the company, and widely recognized. our environmental, health &amp; safety policy in conjunction with our operational excellence management system establish metrics, expectations and responsibilities for achieving our goals for the following key areas: personal safety at andeavor, we strive to instill a culture of personal responsibility among our employees and contractors by setting clear expectations around our safety standards and policies. we conduct regular audits, assessments and program reviews to ensure these practices are being followed and to identify improvements to enhance our workplace safety. december 31, 2017 | 7 business process safety andeavor's facilities are designed, operated and maintained to be safe work environments. to maintain the integrity of our operating systems, we enforce a disciplined framework that includes comprehensive design, engineering, operating and maintenance practices. we use industry-recognized methodologies to assure process safety and asset integrity, and to reduce the risk of incidents. transportation safety we rely on industry best practices, internal policies, and persistent evaluation and improvement. andeavor has proactively led the industry in the safe shipment of crude oil via rail. we worked collaboratively with tank car manufacturers to develop enhanced rail cars that surpass regulatory standards. website access to reports and other information our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and other public filings with the sec are available, free of charge, on our website ( http://andeavor.com ) as soon as reasonably practicable after we file them with, or furnish them to, the sec. information contained on our website is not part of this annual report on form 10-k. you may also access these reports on the sec's website at http://www.sec.gov . marketing our marketing segment sells gasoline and diesel fuel in the western and mid-continent united states through retail, branded, and unbranded channels along with convenience store products in our retail channel. our retail business is made up of company-owned or leased properties offering fuel and convenience store products to end-consumers through company-operated stations and third party-operated stations ( msos ). the branded business is comprised primarily of fuel sales through long-term contracts with jobbers and dealers utilizing one of the many successful brands in our portfolio. our retail and branded channels primarily use the arco , shell , mobil and superamerica brands for fuel sales and ampm , superamerica and giant brands for convenience stores. capturing this brand value results in higher fuel margins for our marketing segment. our unbranded business includes fuel sales through agreements with third-party distributors/operators without an associated fuel brand. the combined use of these channels provides both income from merchandise sales through convenience stores as well as a profitable outlet for the majority of the fuel produced by our refineries. in addition to added profitability, our marketing business enables our refineries to run optimally, which lowers overall operating costs per barrel. fuel sales brands convenience store brands the following provides an overview of our retail and branded network: fuel brand location (a) number of stations arco az, ca, nv, mexico 996 shell az, ca, co, ia, id, mn, nm, nv, or, sd, tx, ut, wi, wy 834 exxon and mobil az, ca, co, id, mn, nd, nm, nv, or, tx, ut, wa, wi 475 superamerica mn, sd, wi 285 other (b) ak, az, ca, co, id, mn, nd, nm, nv, or, sd, tx, ut, wa, wy 665 3,255 (a) the marketing segment's wholesale fuel operations distributes commercial wholesale petroleum products primarily in arizona, colorado, nevada, new mexico and texas. (b) other brands include tesoro , usa gasoline , conoco , giant , rebel , flyers , 76 , phillips 66 , thrifty , chevron , mustang , howdy's and texaco . 8 | business western refining acquisition and wnrl merger with the western refining acquisition and the subsequent wnrl merger, our marketing segment added 544 stations to our branded network, including 457 company-operated stations, and along with other strategic, immaterial acquisitions increased our store count to over 3,250 stations. beginning in the fourth quarter of 2017 and following the wnrl merger, our marketing segment includes the wholesale fuel operations of wnrl for which prior period segment results have been recast to conform to the new presentation. mexico in july 2017, we reached a definitive agreement with pemex for terminalling and transportation services in mexico, allowing the potential to supply up to 40 mbpd of transportation fuels in the states of sonora and baja california, mexico. also in july, we announced a definitive agreement for the supply of fuel in the states of sonora and baja california, mexico allowing andeavor to begin wholesale marketing operations in mexico using the arco brand. these agreements support our integrated value chain by extending the marketing presence into the growing market in mexico. we expect to increase our marketing presence across the entire northern part of mexico over the next few years. competition we sell gasoline through our network of branded retail stations as well as on an unbranded or wholesale basis. our marketing operations compete with other independent marketers, integrated oil companies and high-volume retailers. competitive factors that affect our marketing segment include product price, location, convenience and brand appeal. logistics overview our logistics segment includes the operations of andeavor logistics with the exception of the wholesale fuel business acquired as part of the wnrl merger. this wholesale fuel sales business is included in our marketing segment. terminalling and transportation andeavor logistics' terminalling and transportation business consists of the following assets and operations: asset number of terminals location key products handled volume source terminalling throughput capacity (mbpd) storage capacity (thousand barrels) pipeline mileage land terminals 44 ak, az, ca, id, mn, nm, tx, ut, wa crude oil, refined products, asphalt andeavor, third-party 1,263 44,957 marine terminals 6 ca, wa crude oil, refined products andeavor, third-party 955 2,900 northwest products system id, ut, wa refined products andeavor, third-party 1,201 southern california system ca crude oil, natural gas, refined product andeavor, third-party 216 kenai pipeline ak refined products andeavor 74 salt lake city short-haul ut crude oil, refined products andeavor 22 petroleum coke handling (a) 1 ca petroleum coke andeavor 51 2,218 47,857 1,513 (a) our petroleum coke handling facility has capacity of 2,600 metric tons per day. the terminalling and transportation business generates revenues by charging our customers fees for: providing storage services; transporting refined products; december 31, 2017 | 9 business delivering crude oil, refined products and intermediate feedstocks from vessels to refineries and terminals; loading and unloading crude oil transported by unit train to andeavor's anacortes refinery; loading and unloading from marine vessels and barges; transferring refined products from terminals to trucks, barges, rail cars and pipelines; providing ancillary services, ethanol blending and additive injection; and handling petroleum coke for andeavor's los angeles refinery. andeavor logistics typically enters into long-term contractual arrangements with customers for the provision of services. many of these contracts have minimum volume commitments that must be met by the customer over a period of time. as of december 31, 2017, 90% of total shell capacity is dedicated for use by a specific customer. these commitments and dedications provide the terminalling and transportation business with stable, fee-based cash flow limiting the impact of seasonality. andeavor and its affiliates represent andeavor logistics' largest customer. approximately 92% of andeavor logistics' terminalling and transportation revenues were from andeavor and its affiliates, most of which were derived from contracts that include minimum volume commitments, and has provided approximately 43.1 million barrels of dedicated storage capacity for andeavor's refining operations under various agreements. gathering and processing andeavor logistics' gathering and processing business consists of the following assets and operations: system location key products handled volume source processing throughput capacity (a) (mmcf/d) pipeline mileage (b) high plains mt, nd crude oil andeavor, third-party 1,035 southwest nm, tx crude oil andeavor, third-party 913 north dakota nd crude oil, natural gas, produced water andeavor, third-party 170 780 uinta basin ut natural gas andeavor, third-party 650 635 green river wy crude oil, natural gas andeavor, third-party 850 587 vermillion co, ut, wy natural gas third-party 57 482 1,727 4,432 (a) andeavor logistics has fractionation throughput capacity at its blacks fork, robinson lake and belfield complexes of 15.0 mbpd, 11.5 mbpd and 7.2 mbpd, respectively. (b) the pipeline mileage associated with our equity method investments is not included in the table. our equity method investments are discussed below. andeavor logistics generates gathering and processing revenues by charging our customers fees for: gathering and transporting crude oil, natural gas and produced water; operating storage facilities with tanks located in strategic areas; operating truck-based crude oil gathering; and processing gas under fee-based processing and percentage-of-proceeds agreements. certain equity method investments that contribute to andeavor logistics' gathering and processing systems including investments in: rgs which operates the infrastructure that transports gas along 333 miles of pipeline from certain fields to several re-delivery points, including natural gas processing facilities that are owned by andeavor logistics or a third party; trg which transports natural gas across 52 miles of pipeline to our natural gas processing facilities in the uinta basin; and ubfs which operates 78 miles of gathering pipeline and gas compression assets located in the southeastern uinta basin. andeavor logistics derived 24% of its gathering and processing revenues from andeavor and its affiliates. andeavor logistics process gas for certain producers under keep-whole processing agreements. approximately 23% of andeavor logistics' processing throughput capacity is currently supported by long-term, fee-based processing agreements with minimum volume commitments. 10 | business wnrl assets and operations terminalling and transportation through the wnrl merger, andeavor logistics' terminalling and transportation business expanded to include the following wnrl assets and related operations: refined products terminals located in el paso, texas; albuquerque, bloomfield and gallup, new mexico; and st. paul park, minnesota. the terminals distribute refined products supplied by an andeavor refinery through truck loading racks, barge facilities, rail and other logistics assets; storage facilities located in el paso, gallup and st. paul park. each facility is located adjacent to an andeavor refinery and provides storage and transfer services required to support the refinery's operations; and asphalt terminalling and processing services at our asphalt plant and terminal in el paso, as well as at three stand-alone asphalt terminals in albuquerque and phoenix and tucson, arizona. the el paso asphalt plant is located adjacent to andeavor's el paso refinery. wnrl's assets also include a fleet of asphalt trucks, which are utilized to deliver asphalt to andeavor's asphalt terminals and third-party customers. gathering and processing additionally from the wnrl merger, andeavor logistics' gathering and processing business expanded to include the following wnrl assets and related operations: four corners system - a pipeline system which includes pipelines in northwestern new mexico that gather and transport crude oil and condensate produced in the four corners area and deliver it to andeavor's gallup refinery or to the texnew mex pipeline system. this four corners area crude oil is received at our bloomfield terminal and at crude oil stations we own located in bisti, lybrook, pettigrew and star lake, new mexico; permian basin system - a pipeline system which includes the delaware basin system and other crude oil gathering assets in west texas. it consists of 39 miles of pipelines located in southeast new mexico and west texas and handles crude oil produced in the delaware basin. the system includes other crude gathering assets in west texas that handle crude oil produced in the permian basin. the texnew mex pipeline extends 299 miles from our four corners system to the delaware basin; and crude trucking - a fleet of crude oil trucks, which are utilized to gather, transport and deliver crude oil from collection points in colorado, new mexico and utah to andeavor's el paso and gallup refineries and their interconnected pipelines. competition andeavor logistics' competition primarily comes from independent terminal and pipeline companies, integrated petroleum companies, refining and marketing companies and distribution companies with marketing and trading arms. competition in particular geographic areas is affected primarily by the volumes of refined products produced by refineries located in those areas, the availability of refined products and the cost of transportation to those areas from refineries located in other areas. andeavor logistics may compete with third-party terminals for volumes in excess of minimum volume commitments under its commercial agreements with us and third-party customers as other terminals and pipelines may be able to supply our refineries or end user markets on a more competitive basis, due to terminal location, price, versatility and services provided. if our customers reduced their purchases of refined products from us due to the increased availability of less expensive product from other suppliers or for other reasons, we may only receive or deliver the minimum volumes through andeavor logistics' terminals (or pay the shortfall payment if we do not deliver the minimum volumes), which would decrease our revenues. andeavor logistics' common carrier crude oil gathering and transport systems consist of common carrier pipelines in north dakota and montana ( high plains system ) and common carrier pipelines in new mexico and texas ( southwest system ), which gather and transport crude oil into major regional takeaway pipelines and refining centers. the high plains system and southwest system compete with a number of transportation companies for gathering and transporting crude oil produced in the bakken shale/williston basin area of north dakota and montana ( bakken region ) and the delaware and midland basins ( southwest region ), respectively. andeavor logistics may also compete for opportunities to build gathering lines from producers or other pipeline companies. other companies have existing pipelines that are available to ship crude oil and continue to (or have announced their intent to) expand their pipeline systems in the bakken and southwest regions. andeavor logistics also competes with third-party carriers that deliver crude oil by truck. although andeavor logistics competes for third-party shipments of crude oil on the high plains system and southwest system, contractual relationships with us under the high plains transportation services agreement (the high plains pipeline transportation services agreement ), southwest pipeline and gathering services agreement (the southwest pipeline and gathering services agreement ) and related connections to our refineries provide a strong competitive position in the regions. december 31, 2017 | 11 business andeavor logistics' competitors for natural gas gathering and processing include other midstream companies and producers. competition for natural gas volumes and processing is primarily based on reputation, commercial terms, reliability, service levels, flexibility, access to markets, location, available capacity, capital expenditures and fuel efficiencies. in addition to competing for crude oil and natural gas volumes, andeavor logistics faces competition for customer markets, which is primarily based on the proximity of the pipelines to the markets, price and assurance of supply. safety terminal safety terminal operations are subject to regulations under osha and comparable state and local regulations. terminal facilities are operated in a manner consistent with industry safe practices and standards. the storage tanks that are at andeavor logistics' terminals are designed for crude oil and refined products and are equipped with appropriate controls that minimize emissions and promote safety. terminal facilities have response and control plans, spill prevention and other programs to respond to emergencies. terminals are regulated under the homeland standards or uscg transportation act, which are designed to regulate the security of high risk chemical facilities. pipeline safety pipelines, gathering systems and terminal operations are subject to increasingly strict safety laws and regulations. the transportation and storage of refined products, natural gas and crude oil involve a risk that hazardous liquids or natural gas may be released into the environment, potentially causing harm to the public or the environment. the u.s. department of transportation, through the phmsa and state agencies, enforces safety regulations governing the design, construction, operation, maintenance, inspection and management of our pipeline and storage facilities. these regulations require the development and implementation of pipeline integrity management programs, which include the inspection and testing of pipelines and the investigation of anomalies and if necessary, corrective action. these regulations also require that pipeline operation and maintenance personnel meet certain qualifications and that pipeline operators develop comprehensive spill response plans, including extensive spill response training for pipeline personnel. andeavor logistics may incur significant costs and liabilities associated with repair, remediation, preventative or mitigation measures associated with its pipelines. these costs and liabilities might relate to repair, remediation, preventative or mitigating actions that may be determined to be necessary as a result of the testing program, as well as lost cash flows resulting from shutting down our pipelines during such repairs. additionally, if andeavor logistics fails to comply with phmsa or comparable state regulations, it could be subject to penalties and fines. if future phmsa regulations impose new regulatory requirements on our assets, the costs associated with compliance could have a material effect on andeavor logistics' operations. while andeavor logistics operates and maintains pipelines consistent with applicable regulatory and industry standards, it cannot predict the outcome of legislative or regulatory initiatives, which could have a material effect on its operations, particularly by extending more stringent and comprehensive safety regulations to pipelines and gathering lines not previously subject to such requirements. while andeavor logistics expects any legislative or regulatory changes to allow us time to comply with new requirements, costs associated with compliance may have a material effect on operations. rail safety andeavor logistics' rail operations are limited to loading and unloading rail cars at our facilities. generally, rail operations are subject to federal, state and local regulations. andeavor logistics believes its rail car loading and unloading operations meet or exceed all applicable regulations. natural gas plant safety natural gas processing plants and operations are subject to safety regulations under osha and comparable state and local requirements. a number of andeavor logistics' natural gas processing facilities are also subject to osha's process safety management regulations and the epa's risk management plan requirements. together these regulations are designed to prevent or minimize the probability and consequences of an accidental release of toxic, reactive, flammable or explosive chemicals. a number of our facilities are also regulated under the homeland standards, which are designed to regulate the security of high-risk chemical facilities. andeavor logistics' natural gas processing plants and operations are operated in a manner consistent with industry safe practices and standards. refining overview we currently own and operate ten petroleum refineries located in the western and mid-continent united states with a combined crude oil capacity of approximately 1.2 million barrels per day. our refining segment buys and refines crude oil and other feedstocks into transportation fuels that we sell to a wide variety of customers. demand for gasoline is higher during the spring and summer months than during the fall and winter months in most of our markets due to seasonal changes in vehicle miles 12 | business traveled. as a result, our operating results for both the refining and marketing segments for the first and fourth quarters are typically lower than the second and third quarters. regions we currently operate the refining segment in three separate regions: california, pacific northwest and mid-continent. our geographic footprint and physically integrated logistics and marketing businesses enable our refineries to interact across these regions providing higher asset utilization and lower operating costs while maintaining well-balanced product supplies to better serve our customers. feedstock purchases we purchase crude oil and other feedstocks from domestic and foreign sources either through the spot market or term agreements with renewal provisions and volume commitments. the domestic crude oil we purchase, which makes up 67% of our purchases based on volumes, is produced primarily in north dakota, alaska, california, texas, new mexico, utah and wyoming. the remaining 33% of our purchases consists of foreign crude oil produced in south america, the middle east, canada, western africa, asia and other locations. our refineries process both heavy and light crude oil. light crude oil, when refined, produces a greater proportion of higher value transportation fuels such as gasoline, diesel and jet fuel, and as a result is typically more expensive than heavy crude oil. in contrast, heavy crude oil produces more low value by-products and heavy residual oils. these lower value products can be upgraded to higher value products through additional, more complex and expensive refining processes. refined products the total products produced in the refining process are referred to as the refining yield. the refining yield consists primarily of transportation fuels, including gasoline and gasoline blendstocks, jet fuel and diesel fuel, but may also include other products such as heavy fuel oils, liquefied petroleum gas, petroleum coke, calcined coke and asphalt. major units (a) throughput by crude type (mbpd) (b) yield (mbpd) refinery (capacity - mbpd) crude catalytic cracking hydro-cracker coker light heavy other total gas diesel jet fuel other (c) total (d) california region: los angeles, california (380) 300 48 34 382 214 68 71 36 389 martinez, california (166) 25 108 8 141 70 50 26 146 pacific northwest region: anacortes, washington (120) 101 9 13 123 63 27 17 14 121 kenai, alaska (72) 62 2 64 18 7 22 16 63 mid-continent region: el paso, texas (135) 120 5 125 70 38 11 6 125 st. paul park, minnesota (102) 75 27 2 104 53 29 7 15 104 mandan, north dakota (74) 59 1 60 34 19 4 2 59 salt lake city, utah (63) 59 3 62 36 17 8 1 62 gallup, new mexico (25) 26 1 27 19 9 1 29 dickinson, north dakota (20) 14 14 4 6 3 13 (a) our refineries operate other units such as vacuum distillation, naptha reforming, hydrotreating, butane isomerization, deasphalting, and alkylation units. the table above provides an overview of the largest units at each refinery. (b) the throughput and yield amounts for the el paso, st. paul park and gallup refineries are calculated based on volumes from june 1, 2017 through december 31, 2017 and divided by 214 days. (c) the majority of internally produced fuel is consumed during the refining process. (d) refined product sales may exceed our yield due to purchased refined products. december 31, 2017 | 13 business logistics assets terminal and pipelines we transport, store and distribute crude oil, feedstocks and refined products through our terminals and pipelines or terminals and pipelines owned by andeavor logistics and third-parties in our market areas as well as through purchases and exchange arrangements with other refining and marketing companies. our refineries are integrated with each other via pipelines, terminals and barges. the transportation links that connect our refineries allow for movement of intermediate and finished products, which permit us to optimize our value chain and maximize utilization. marine we charter tankers to optimize the transportation of crude oil, feedstocks, and refined products to support our refinery system and ensure adequate shipping capacity. our current u.s.-flag and foreign-flag tanker time charters will expire with varying dates between 2018 and 2022 , unless we exercise renewal options. we also time charter tug and barge units and a ship assist tug with varying expiration dates through 2018 , unless we exercise renewal options. we continually look to optimize our marine fleet and minimize costs, and from time to time we sub-charter vessels in our fleet to third-parties to maintain high utilization. all of our chartered tankers and barges are double-hulled. rail we maintain a fleet of leased rail cars to transport crude and refined products in support of our refining operations. refined product sales our marketing segment provides a committed outlet for the majority of gasoline as well as some of the diesel fuel produced by our refineries; however, we also sell gasoline and gasoline blendstocks, jet fuel, diesel fuel, heavy fuel oils and residual products in the western and mid-continental u.s. and northern mexico. we also export bulk shipments of products into certain foreign markets. our bulk sales are primarily to independent unbranded distributors, other refining and marketing companies, utilities, railroads, airlines and marine and industrial end-users. our sales include refined products that we manufacture, purchase or receive through exchange arrangements. sales of purchased products in the normal course of business, we purchase refined products manufactured by others for resale through our marketing and bulk operations to our customers to meet local market demands and fulfill supply commitments. we purchase these refined products, primarily gasoline, jet fuel, diesel fuel and industrial and marine fuel blendstocks, mainly in the spot market. competition we obtain most of our crude oil from third-party sources and compete in the world market for the crude oil and feedstocks we process, and for the customers who purchase refined products. the availability and cost of crude oil and other feedstocks, as well as the prices of the products we produce, are heavily influenced by global supply and demand dynamics. we compete with other refiners and with importers for customers in our market areas including sales of our distillate production through wholesale and bulk channels. competition and concentrations specific to each of our refineries are: our martinez, los angeles and anacortes refineries compete with several refiners in the u.s., canada and throughout the pacific rim; our kenai refinery competes with two other in-state refineries along with refineries on the west coast and in asia. our jet fuel sales in alaska are concentrated in anchorage, where we are one of the principal suppliers at the anchorage international airport; and our mid-continent refineries in mandan, dickinson, salt lake city, el paso, gallup and st. paul park compete with supplies provided from refineries in surrounding states and pipeline supply from the midwest and gulf coast regions. government regulation and legislation regulatory controls and expenditures like other companies engaged in similar businesses, we are subject to extensive and frequently changing federal, state, regional and local laws, regulations and ordinances relating to the environment, including those governing emissions or discharges to land, air and water, the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes and the remediation of contamination. while we believe our facilities are in substantial compliance with current requirements, we will continue to engage in efforts to meet new legislative and regulatory requirements applicable to our operations. compliance with these laws and regulations may require us to make significant expenditures. 14 | business for example: the epa has promulgated multiple regulations to control greenhouse gas emissions under the federal clean air act. the first of these regulations, finalized on april 1, 2010, set standards for the control of greenhouse gas emissions from light trucks and cars. the u.s. congress may also consider legislation regarding greenhouse gas emissions in the future. the energy independence and security act of 2007 mandates the blending of increasing amounts of renewable fuels in the supply of transportation fuels used domestically. this use of renewable fuels is required of all manufacturers and importers of transportation fuels sold domestically. the epa implemented the rfs2 through regulation and rfs2 requires transportation fuel manufacturers to provide proof of purchase of these renewable fuels. the costs associated with rfs2 compliance are uncertain and fluctuate with market dynamics. the epa finalized amendments to the clean air act risk management planning regulations in 2016 significantly expanding the regulatory requirements. the dot issued new regulations in 2015 governing the design of rail cars used to transport petroleum and other materials. in california, sb 32 set a new greenhouse gas emission reduction requirement of 40% below 1990 levels by 2030. ab 197 mandated direct emission reductions of greenhouse gases from large stationary sources such as our refineries. ab 32, previously created a statewide cap on greenhouse gas emissions now replaced by sb 32 but also created a low carbon fuel standard, which requires a 10% reduction in the carbon intensity of fuels by 2020. in california, the board for the south coast air quality management district passed amendments to reclaim on december 4, 2015. the reclaim amendments became effective in 2016 and required a staged reduction of nitrogen oxides through 2022. in california, new and expanded process safety management and refinery safety and prevention regulations were proposed in 2016 in response to recommendations made in 2014 by the governor's interagency refinery safety working group. the impact of these and other regulatory and legislative developments is likely to result in increased compliance costs, additional operating restrictions on our business and an increase in the cost of the products we manufacture. depending on market conditions, we may attempt to pass these costs on to consumers. if that is not possible, the changes could have an adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations, and liquidity. we cannot currently determine the amounts of such future impacts. for additional information regarding our environmental matters see environmental and other matters in item 7. oil spill prevention and response we operate in environmentally sensitive coastal waters, where tanker, pipeline, rail cars and other petroleum product transportation operations are regulated by federal, state and local agencies and monitored by environmental interest groups. the transportation of crude oil and refined products involves risk and subjects us to the provisions of the federal oil pollution act of 1990 and related state requirements, which require that most petroleum refining, transport and storage companies maintain and update various oil spill prevention and oil spill contingency plans. our spill prevention plans and procedures are frequently reviewed and modified to prevent releases and to minimize potential impacts to land and water should a release occur. we have submitted these plans and received federal and state approvals necessary to comply with the federal oil pollution act of 1990 and related regulations. at our facilities adjacent to water, federally certified osros are available to respond to a spill on water from above ground storage tanks or pipelines. we have contracts in place to ensure support from the respective osros for spills in both open and inland waters, as well as on land. we currently charter tankers to ship crude oil from foreign and domestic sources to our california, washington and alaska refineries. the tanker owners contract with osros to comply with federal, state and local requirements, except in alaska where we contract with the osros. the osros are capable of responding to an oil spill equal to the greatest tanker volume delivering crude oil to our refineries. those volumes range from 350,000 barrels to two million barrels. we have entered into spill-response contracts with various osros to provide spill-response services, if required, to respond to a spill of oil originating from our facilities. we have spill-response agreements in alaska with cook inlet spill prevention and response, incorporated and with alyeska pipeline service company. we also have entered into contracts with marine spill response corporation for the san francisco bay, puget sound, the port of los angeles and the port of long beach, and the clean rivers cooperative, inc. for the columbia river, and bay west, inc. in our mid-continent region, which includes our new st. paul park refinery. we contract with h2o environmental, inc. for our el paso and gallup refineries which are supplied by pipeline. these osros are capable of responding to an oil spill on water equal to the greatest volume above ground storage tank at our facilities or pipelines. those volumes range from 50,000 to 600,000 barrels. we also contract with one spill-response organization outside the u.s. to support our shipments in foreign waters. in addition, we contract with various spill-response specialists to ensure appropriate expertise is available for any contingency. we believe these contracts provide the additional services necessary to meet or exceed all regulatory spill-response requirements and support our commitment to environmental stewardship. the osros we contract with have the highest available rating and certification from the u.s. coast guard and are required to annually demonstrate their response capability to the u.s. coast guard and state agencies. we maintain our own spill-response december 31, 2017 | 15 business resources to mitigate the impact of a spill from a tanker at our refineries until an osro can deploy its resources. our spill response capability meets the u.s. coast guard and state requirements to either deploy on-water containment equipment two and one-half times the length of a vessel at our dock or have smaller vessels available. the services provided by the osros principally consist of operating response-related equipment, managing certain aspects of a response and providing technical expertise. the osros provide various resources in response to an oil spill. the resources include dedicated vessels that have skimming equipment to recover oil, storage barges to temporarily store recovered oil, containment boom to control the spread of oil on water and land and to protect shorelines, and various pumps and other equipment supporting oil recovery efforts and the protection of natural resources. the osros have full-time personnel and contract with third parties to provide additional personnel when needed. as a general matter, our agreements with these organizations do not contain specific physical or financial limitations. general physical limitations of these organizations would include the geographical area for which services are available and the amount of resources available at the initiation of a request for services or the duration of response and recovery efforts. additionally, we require all tankers and barges engaged in moving crude oil, heavy and finished products to be double hulled. all vessels used by us to transport crude oil and refined products over water are examined or evaluated and subject to our approval prior to their use. rail car safety andeavor maintains a fleet of leased rail cars to transport crude and support our refining operations. generally, rail operations are subject to federal, state and local regulations. andeavor has a significant number of new dot120j200 tank cars in its crude oil fleet, which exceed the new federal standards issued by the dot during 2015. the dot regulations allow for an orderly phase out or retrofit of previous generation rail cars. we have retrofitted a significant portion of the previous generation of rail cars in our fleet to the new dot117 standard. andeavor will continue to comply with all regulatory requirements and explore and invest in tank car technology that provides a shared value for andeavor, our rail carriers and the communities where we operate. regulation of pipelines operations on portions of our pipelines are regulated by state agencies in alaska and california. in addition, andeavor logistics owns and operates crude oil, refined product and natural gas pipelines, which are common carriers regulated by various federal, state and local agencies. the ferc regulates interstate transportation on andeavor logistics' four corners system, high plains system, northwest products pipeline and natural gas pipeline, permian basin system and texnew mex system under the interstate commerce act, the energy policy act of 1992 and the rules and regulations promulgated under those laws. federal regulation of interstate pipelines extends to such matters as rates, services, and terms and conditions of service; the types of services offered to customers; the certification and construction of new facilities; the acquisition, extension, disposition or abandonment of facilities; the maintenance of accounts and records; relationships between affiliated companies; the initiation and continuation of services; market manipulation in connection with interstate sales, purchases or transportation of commodities; and participation by interstate pipelines in cash management arrangements. the intrastate operation of andeavor logistics' alaska pipeline is regulated by the regulatory commission of alaska. the state regulatory authorities require that we notify shippers of proposed tariff increases to provide the shippers an opportunity to protest the increases. in addition to challenges to new or proposed rates, challenges to existing intrastate rates are permitted by complaint of an interested person or by independent action of the appropriate regulatory authority. the intrastate operations of andeavor logistics' high plains system in north dakota are regulated by the north dakota public service commission, its operations in the four corners system in new mexico are regulated by the new mexico public service commission and its permian basin system operations in new mexico and texas are regulated by both the new mexico public service commission and the texas rail commission. applicable state law requires that pipelines operate as common carriers, that access to transportation services and pipeline rates be non-discriminatory, that if more crude oil is offered for transportation than can be transported immediately the crude oil volumes transported be apportioned equitably and that pipeline rates be just and reasonable. executive officers the following is a list of our executive officers, their ages and their positions at andeavor, effective as of february 21, 2018 . there are no family relationships among the officers listed and there are no arrangements or understandings pursuant to which any of them were elected as officers. officers are elected annually by our board in conjunction with the annual meeting of stockholders. the term of each office runs until the corresponding meeting of the board in the next year or until a successor has been elected or qualified. positions held for at least the past five years for each of our executive officers are described below (positions, unless otherwise specified, are with andeavor). gregory j. goff , 61 , has served as our president and chief executive officer since may 2010 and as our chairman since december 31, 2014. since december 2011, mr. goff has also served as chairman of the board of directors and chief executive officer of tesoro logistics gp, llc, the general partner of andeavor logistics. prior to joining us, mr. goff served as senior vice 16 | business president, commercial for conocophillips corporation, an international, integrated energy company, from 2008 to 2010. mr. goff also held various other positions at conocophillips from 1981 to 2008, including managing director and ceo of conoco jet nordic from 1998 to 2000; chairman and managing director of conoco limited, a uk-based refining and marketing affiliate, from 2000 to 2002; president of conocophillips europe and asia pacific downstream operations from 2002 to 2004; president of conocophillips u.s. lower 48 and latin america exploration and production business from 2004 to 2006; and president of conocophillips specialty businesses and business development from 2006 to 2008. mr. goff is a member of the board of directors of the american fuel and petrochemical manufacturers trade association and on the national advisory board of the university of utah business school. previously, mr. goff served on the board of chevron phillips chemical company and was a member of the upstream and downstream committees of the american petroleum institute. in addition, mr. goff has public company experience from his current and prior service on several public company boards. mr. goff holds a bachelor's degree in science and a master's degree in business administration from the university of utah. keith m. casey , 51 , has served as our executive vice president, commercial and value chain, since may 2017, having previously served as executive vice president, marketing and commercial from august 2016 to may 2017, as executive vice president, operations from may 2014 to august 2016, and as senior vice president, strategy and business development from april 2013 to may 2014. before joining andeavor, mr. casey served as vice president, bp products north america, texas city refinery beginning in september 2006. mr. casey holds a bachelor of science in metallurgical and materials engineering from california polytechnic state university san luis obispo. michael j. morrison , 60 , has served as senior vice president, marketing since april 2016. prior to that, he served at conoco, conocophillips and phillips 66 for more than 30 years in various strategic and leadership roles within marketing, strategy, logistics, optimization, and commercial supply and trading including most recently, as global crude oil trading lead and lead executive for the london office of phillips 66. mr. morrison holds a master of business administration degree from the university of missouri and a bachelor of arts degree in economics from depauw university. kim k.w. rucker , 51 , has served as executive vice president, general counsel and secretary since march 2016. prior to joining andeavor, ms. rucker served as executive vice president, corporate &amp; legal affairs, general counsel and corporate secretary of kraft foods group, inc., a food and beverage company, from october 2012 until july 2015. she joined mondel z international as executive vice president, corporate &amp; legal affairs, kraft foods north america in september 2012. prior to that, ms. rucker served as senior vice president, general counsel and chief compliance officer of avon products, inc., a global manufacturer of beauty and related products, beginning in march 2008, and assumed additional duties as corporate secretary in february 2009. ms. rucker also served as senior vice president, secretary and chief governance officer of energy future holdings corp. (formerly txu corp.), an energy company, from 2004 to 2008. she was also corporate counsel for kimberly-clark corporation and a partner in the corporate &amp; securities group at the law firm of sidley austin llp. ms. rucker serves on the board of directors of lennox international inc. she holds a bachelor of business administration degree in economics from the university of iowa, a law degree from the harvard law school and a master in public policy degree from the john f. kennedy school of government at harvard university. steven m. sterin , 46 , has served as executive vice president and chief financial officer since august 2014. from august 2016 to may 2017, he also led corporate development in support of our growth plans. mr. sterin also serves as president, chief financial officer and director of tesoro logistics gp, llc, the general partner of andeavor logistics. prior to joining andeavor, mr. sterin served as the senior vice president and chief financial officer of celanese corporation, a global technology and specialty material company, from july 2007 until may 2014 and continued to serve as an employee until august 2014. from december 2010 through january 2013, he was president of celanese's advanced fuel technologies business. mr. sterin joined celanese in 2003 as director of finance and controller for the company's chemical business and served as corporate controller and principal accounting officer before being appointed chief financial officer in 2007. before celanese, mr. sterin spent six years with global chemicals company reichhold, inc., a subsidiary of dainippon ink &amp; chemicals, in a variety of financial positions, including director of tax and treasury in the netherlands, global treasurer and vice president of finance for one of the company's divisions in north carolina. he started his professional career at price waterhouse in 1995. mr. sterin has nearly 20 years of financial leadership and over 10 years of large public company chief financial officer experience. he has also served as a member of the dean's advisory council at the red mccombs school of business (university of texas at austin). mr. sterin holds a master of professional accounting degree and a bachelor of business administration degree in accounting, from the university of texas at austin. he is also a certified public accountant in texas. cynthia j. warner , 59 , has served as executive vice president, operations since august 2016. prior to her current role, mrs. warner served as executive vice president, strategy and business development from october 2014 to august 2016. before joining andeavor, mrs. warner served as president, chief executive officer, and chairman of the board of sapphire energy beginning in 2009. ms. warner is a non-executive director for idex corporation and also serves on the board of the national manufacturer's association and the vanderbilt university school of engineering board of visitors. she is a member of the national petroleum council. ms. warner holds a bachelor of engineering in chemical engineering from vanderbilt university and a master of business administration degree from the illinois institute of technology. blane w. peery , 51 , has served as vice president and controller of andeavor and tesoro logistics gp, llc since november 2016. prior to that, he served as vice president, process excellence and chief information officer from february 2015 through december 31, 2017 | 17 business october 2016. from march 2014 to february 2015, mr. peery served as vp, global business services at mylan n.v., a leading global pharmaceutical company. prior to that he worked for celanese corporation, a global technology and specialty materials company, for over 20 years in roles with increasing responsibility, including positions as its vice president, global business services from october 2012 to march 2014 and its vice president, supply chain from october 2011 to october 2012. mr. peery is a certified public accountant (cpa), as well as a certified management accountant (cma) and certified in financial management (cfm). mr. peery holds a bachelor of business administration degree in accounting from the university of texas at austin. stephan e. tompsett , 41 , has served as vice president and treasurer of andeavor and tesoro logistics gp, llc since august 2016. he previously served as chief financial officer, logistics for a subsidiary of andeavor from may 2015 to august 2016. prior to that time, mr. tompsett served in a variety of finance roles at energy transfer partners from february 2011 to may 2015. from september 2008 to january 2011, he was vice president, corporate development at synthesis energy systems. he was an associate at jpmorgan from july 2005 to august 2008. mr. tompsett holds a master of business administration degree from the red mccombs school of business at university of texas at austin, and a bachelor of science degree in biology and mathematics from the university of texas at austin. item 1a. risk factors the volatility of crude oil prices, refined product prices and natural gas and electrical power prices may have a material adverse effect on our cash flow and results of operations. our refining margins are influenced by the price of our refining feedstocks-crude oil and other feedstocks-and the price of our refined products. these prices often move independently of each other, which can negatively impact our margins, earnings or cash flows. in recent years, prices have fluctuated significantly due to global and local factors that are beyond our control, including: production and availability of foreign and domestic crude oil and refined products; production controls set and maintained by the members of the organization of the petroleum exporting countries; transportation infrastructure availability, local market conditions, operation levels of other refineries in our markets, and the import or export of crude and refined products; political instability, threatened or actual terrorist incidents, acts of war, and other global political conditions; domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; the price, availability and efficiency of competing energy sources; local, regional, national and worldwide economic conditions; and weather conditions, hurricanes or other natural disasters. some of these factors can vary by region and may change quickly, adding to market volatility, while others may have longer-term effects. the long-term effects of these and other factors on prices for crude oil, refinery feedstocks and refined products are uncertain and could negatively impact our margins, earnings or financial condition. the short-term effects of these fluctuations could affect our margins, earnings and cash flows. we purchase our refinery feedstocks weeks before manufacturing and selling the refined products. price level changes during the period between purchasing feedstocks and selling the refined products could affect our margins, earnings or cash flows. in addition, we purchase refined products manufactured by others to sell to our customers. if we are unable to manage our commodity exposure risk, it could affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. lower refining margins may reduce the amount of refined products we produce, which may reduce our revenues, income from operations or cash flows. significant reductions in margins could require us to reduce our capital expenditures or impair the carrying value of our assets. volatile prices for natural gas and electricity used by our refineries and other operations affect manufacturing and operating costs. natural gas and electricity prices have been, and will continue to be, affected by supply and demand for fuel and utility services in both local and regional markets. in addition, the volume of crude oil, refined products, natural gas and ngls that andeavor logistics distributes and stores at its terminals, transports and processes depends substantially on our and other customers' profit margins, the market price of crude oil, natural gas, ngls and other refinery feedstocks, and product demand. federal tax reform could adversely affect our business. on december 22, 2017, president trump signed major tax legislation into law under the tax act. the tax act, known informally as the tax cuts and jobs act, reduces the statutory rate of u.s. federal corporate income tax to 21% and enacts numerous other changes impacting us and the oil and gas industry. we cannot predict the impact these changes will have on our business; however, it is possible that these changes could adversely affect our business, our cash flows, our profitability and our ability to compete domestically and internationally. 18 | risk factors the reduction in the statutory u.s. federal corporate income rate is expected to positively impact our future u.s. after-tax earnings. other changes in the tax act that broaden the tax base by reducing or eliminating deduction for certain items (e.g., reductions to dividends received deductions, elimination of deductions for income attributable to domestic production activities, limitations on business interest expense deduction, and limitations on the deduction of certain executive compensation costs) will offset a portion of the benefits from the lower statutory rate. the overall impact of the tax act is subject to the effect of other complex provisions in the tax act. additionally, we are subject to ongoing income tax audits. the taxing authorities may disagree with positions taken on our tax returns. coupled with the change in tax rates from the tax act, this could result in an adverse effect to our effective income tax rate in the period of adjustment. furthermore, it is possible that the tax act will be subject to further changes either in a technical corrections bill or entirely new legislation. the overall impact of the tax act also depends on the future interpretations and regulations that may be issued by u.s. tax authorities. it remains difficult to predict whether or when there will be any tax law changes or further guidance by the authorities having a material adverse effect on our financial conditions or results of operations, as the impact of broad proposals on our business can vary substantially depending upon the specific changes or further guidance made and how the changes or guidance are implemented by the authorities. we may be unsuccessful in integrating the operations of the assets we have acquired or may acquire in the future, or in realizing all or any part of the anticipated benefits of any such acquisition. if we are unable to successfully integrate our acquisitions into our business, we may never realize their expected benefits. with each acquisition, we may discover or experience unexpected costs, environmental liabilities for which we are not indemnified, delays, lower than expected cost savings or synergies, or incurrence of other significant charges such as impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets and asset devaluation. in addition, we may be unable to successfully integrate the diverse company cultures, retain key personnel, apply our expertise to new competencies, or react to adverse changes in commodity prices or industry conditions. we cannot predict with certainty the benefits of these acquisitions, which often constitute multi-year endeavors. on june 1, 2017, we completed our acquisition of western refining. this acquisition will require substantial capital during 2018 and later years. if we are unable to realize all or part of the projected benefits from this or other acquisitions within our expected time frames, our business, results of operations and financial condition may suffer. we are subject to interruptions of supply and increased costs as a result of our reliance on logistics assets for the transportation of crude oil, feedstocks and refined products within our business. our subsidiaries own and operate ten refineries in the western and mid-continent united states, which refine crude oil and other feedstocks into refined products for sale to a wide variety of markets. we rely on a variety of logistics assets to transport crude oil, feedstocks and refined products, including, but not limited to, marine vessels, marine terminals, rail, pipelines, product terminals, storage tanks and trucks. some of these assets are owned and operated by third-parties. in particular, losing access to certain assets owned by andeavor logistics could halt production at some of our refineries. accidents, natural disasters, government regulation, third-party actions or other events outside of our control could impede our use or increase the cost of using these assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. adverse changes in global economic conditions and the demand for transportation fuels may impact our business and financial condition in ways that we currently cannot predict. our business is affected by the strength of the u.s. and global economies, related demand for transportation fuels, and the risk of global economic downturn. technological changes in vehicles and other energy systems, such as electric vehicles, fuel cells and battery storage systems, as well as transportation alternatives, could also affect demand. new energy technologies or prolonged economic downturns could result in declines in consumer and business confidence and spending as well as increased unemployment and reduced demand for transportation fuels. these conditions may decrease the creditworthiness of our suppliers, customers and business partners, which could interrupt or delay our suppliers' performance of our contracts, reduce or delay customer purchases, delay or prevent customers from obtaining financing to purchase our products, or result in bankruptcy of customers or business partners. any of these events may adversely affect our cash flow, profitability and financial condition. december 31, 2017 | 19 risk factors we operate in international markets, and are thus subject to risks of doing business on a global level. we operate in and sell some of our products in non-u.s. jurisdictions, primarily in mexico, south america and asia. our operating results or financial condition could be negatively impacted by disruptions in any of these markets, including economic instability, restrictions on the transfer of funds, duties and tariffs, transportation delays, import and export controls, changes in governmental policies, labor unrest, security issues involving key personnel and changing regulatory and political environments. in addition, if trade relationships deteriorate with these countries, if existing trade agreements are modified or terminated, new economic sanctions relevant to such jurisdictions are passed or if taxes, border adjustments or tariffs make trading with these countries more costly, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. a portion of our contracts and revenues are denominated in foreign currencies. our consolidated financial statements are presented in u.s. dollars. consequently, fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies relative to the u.s. dollar may negatively affect the value of these items in our consolidated financial statements. to the extent we do not manage our foreign currency exposure adequately, we may suffer losses in value of our net foreign currency investment, and our consolidated results of operations and financial position may be negatively affected. actions of governments through tax legislation and other changes in law, executive order and commercial restrictions could reduce our operating profitability, both in the u.s. and abroad. the u.s. government can prevent or restrict us from doing business in foreign countries. these restrictions could limit our ability to operate in, or gain access to, opportunities in various countries. we are required to comply with u.s. and international laws and regulations, including those involving anti-bribery, anti-corruption and anti-money laundering. for example, the foreign corrupt practices act and similar laws and regulations prohibit improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or gaining any business advantage. our compliance policies and programs mandate compliance with all applicable anti-corruption laws but may not be completely effective in ensuring our compliance. our training and compliance program and our internal control policies and procedures may not always protect us from violations committed by our employees or agents. actual or alleged violations of these laws could disrupt our business and cause us to incur significant legal expenses, and could result in a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. the availability and cost of renewable identification numbers could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. the rfs2, issued by the epa, requires refiners to add annually increasing amounts of renewable fuels to their petroleum products or to purchase credits, known as rins, in lieu of such blending. due to regulatory uncertainty and in part due to the nation's fuel supply approaching the blend wall (the 10% ethanol limit prescribed by most automobile warranties), the price and availability of rins has been volatile. while we generate rins by blending renewable fuels manufactured by third parties, we purchase rins on the open market to comply with the rfs2. we cannot predict the future prices of rins, and the costs to obtain the necessary rins could be material. our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if we are unable to pass the cost of compliance on to our customers, pay significantly higher prices for rins, and generate or purchase rins to meet rfs2 mandated standards. meeting the requirements of, including the cost to comply with, evolving environmental, health and safety laws and regulations and any failure to meet those requirements could materially affect our performance, financial condition and results of operations. environmental, health and safety laws and regulations may continue to increase our operating costs and require significant capital investments. if we discover conditions at our facilities that require remediation, or if environmental, health and safety, and energy requirements change materially, we could be required to increase our capital expenditures or incur additional operating costs, which could negatively impact our financial condition. environmental and operational risks, including those relating to process safety could result in increased regulatory requirements, liabilities, permit restrictions or revocation or an adverse effect to our reputation. equipment or system failures, human error, extreme weather events or natural disasters could result in hazardous material releases into the environment, fires, explosions, loss of life, personal injury and property damage. we cannot predict the effect of future developments in federal or state laws or regulations governing environmental, health and safety or energy matters on our operations, or how these changes may impact our business or financial condition. for example: in july 2017 california adopted additional process safety management regulations to implement recommendations made in 2014 by the governor's interagency refinery safety working group. these requirements significantly expand the scope and requirements of california's process safety management and accidental release prevention programs. these requirements could have a material impact on our cash flows, profitability and financial condition. 20 | risk factors in california, the board for the south coast air quality management district passed amendments to the reclaim on december 4, 2015. the reclaim amendments became effective in 2016 and require a staged reduction of nox through 2022. the agency is also working on a process to sunset the existing reclaim program and require facilities to install best available retrofit control technologies on equipment. in california, ab-617, a companion bill to green house gas legislation, was passed in 2017 to establish programs to reduce local criteria and toxic emissions at an individual community level. this will involve community monitoring, emission reduction plans, and installation of equipment in the selected communities. climate change and greenhouse regulation could affect our operations, energy consumption patterns and regulatory obligations, any of which could affect our results of operations and financial condition. scientific studies have indicated that increasing concentrations of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere can produce changes in climate with significant physical effects, including increased frequency and severity of storms, floods and other extreme weather events that could affect our operations. increased concern over the effects of climate change may also affect our customers' energy strategies, consumer consumption patterns, including the adoption of electric vehicles, and government and private sector alternative energy initiatives any of which could adversely affect demand for petroleum products. currently, multiple legislative and regulatory measures to address greenhouse gas (including carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxides) and other emissions are in various phases of consideration, promulgation or implementation. these include actions to develop international, federal, regional or statewide programs, which could require reductions in our greenhouse gas or other emissions and decrease the demand for our refined products. requiring reductions in these emissions could result in increased costs to (i) operate and maintain our facilities, (ii) install new emission controls at our facilities and (iii) administer and manage any emissions programs, including acquiring emission credits or allotments. for example, in california, the state legislature adopted sb 32 in 2016. sb 32 set a cap on emissions of 40% below 1990 levels by 2030 but did not establish a particular mechanism to achieve that target. the legislature also adopted a companion bill, ab 197, that most significantly directs the california air resources board to prioritize direct emission reductions on large stationary sources. in 2017, the state legislature adopted ab 398 which provides direction and parameters on utilizing cap and trade after 2020 to meet the 40% reduction target from 1990 levels by 2030 specified in sb 32. in 2009, carb adopted the low carbon fuel standard ( lcfs ), which requires a 10% reduction in the carbon intensity of gasoline and diesel by 2020 and additional reductions beyond 2020 are anticipated. compliance is demonstrated by blending lower carbon intensity biofuels into gasoline and diesel or by purchasing credits. compliance with each of the cap and trade and lcfs programs is demonstrated through a market-based credit system. if we are unable to pass the costs of compliance on to our customers, sufficient credits are unavailable for purchase, we have to pay a significantly higher price for credits, or if we are otherwise unable to meet our compliance obligation, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. california's ambitious climate change and air emissions goals and regulatory programs are complex, subject to change and considerable uncertainty due to a number of factors including technological feasibility, legal challenges and potential changes in federal policy. increasing concerns about climate change have also resulted in a number of international, national, regional and statewide measures to limit greenhouse gas emissions. additional stricter measures can be expected in the future and any of these changes may have a material adverse impact on our business or financial condition. regulatory and other requirements concerning the transportation of crude oil and other commodities by rail may cause increases in transportation costs or limit the amount of crude oil that we can transport by rail. we rely on a variety of systems to transport crude oil, including rail. in 2012, we completed the construction of a 50 mbpd crude oil rail car unloading facility in anacortes, washington (the anacortes rail facility ), which andeavor logistics subsequently acquired from us. the anacortes rail facility allows us to receive crude oil into our anacortes refinery. rail transportation is regulated by federal, state and local authorities. new regulations or changes in existing regulations could result in increased compliance expenditures. for example, in 2015 the u.s. department of transportation issued new standards and regulations applicable to crude-by-rail transportation (enhanced tank car standards and operational controls for high-hazard flammable trains). these or other regulations could increase the time required to move crude oil from production areas to our refineries, increase the cost of rail transportation and decrease the efficiency of shipments of crude oil by rail within our operations. any of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. we rely upon certain critical information systems for the operation of our business, and the failure of any critical information system, including a cyber-security breach, may result in harm to our reputation and business. we depend heavily on our technology infrastructure and critical information systems, including data networks, telecommunications, remote connectivity, cloud-based information controls, software applications and hardware, including those that are critical to operating our refineries, pipelines, terminals, retail stations and other business operations. in addition, we collect sensitive data, including personally identifiable information of our customers using credit cards at our retail outlets. december 31, 2017 | 21 risk factors we are in the process of completing the enterprise resource planning project (see further discussion in item 7) which aims to simplify business processes by implementing a standardized and scalable technology platform. large information systems and business process transformations such as this one are complex and require significant investments in system software, business process development and employee resources. our business and results of operations may be adversely affected if we experience operating problems, scheduling delays, cost overages or service limitations. additionally, we may not achieve all of the expected synergies with this project which may impact our ability to achieve the project's objectives. our technology infrastructure and information systems are subject to damage or interruption from a number of potential sources including natural disasters, software viruses or other malware, power failures, cyber-attacks, employee error or malfeasance, and other events. although we have experienced actual or attempted breaches of our cybersecurity, none of these breaches have had a material effect on our business, operations or reputation (or compromised any customer data). however, no cybersecurity or emergency recovery processes is failsafe, and if our safeguards fail or our data or technology infrastructure is compromised, the safety and efficiency of our operations could be materially harmed, our reputation could suffer, and we could be subject us to additional costs, liabilities, and costly legal challenges, including those involving privacy of customer data. any of these outcomes could materially harm our business and operations. finally, state and federal legislation relating to cybersecurity could impose new requirements, which could increase our costs or reduce our efficiency. disruption of our ability to obtain crude oil could adversely affect our operations, revenue and cash flow. to maintain or increase production levels at our refineries, we must continually contract for crude oil supplies from third parties. a material decrease in crude oil production from the fields that supply our refineries as a result of decreased exploration and production activity, natural production declines or otherwise, could result in a decline in the volume of crude oil available to our refineries. such an event could result in an overall decline in volumes of refined products processed at our refineries and a corresponding reduction in our revenue and cash flow. in addition, many of our logistics agreements contain minimum volume commitments. if we do not satisfy the minimum volume commitments, we will still be responsible for payment for transportation and storage services as if we had utilized such minimum volumes. our investments in joint ventures decrease our ability to manage risk. we conduct some of our operations, through joint ventures in which we share control over certain economic and, business interests with our joint venture partners. our joint venture partners may have economic, business or legal interests or goals that are inconsistent with our goals and interests or may be unable to meet their obligations. failure by us, or an entity in which we have a joint-venture interest, to adequately manage the risks associated with any acquisitions or joint ventures could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition or results of operations of our joint ventures and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. terrorist attacks aimed at our facilities or that impact our customers or the markets we serve could adversely affect our business. the u.s. government has issued warnings that energy assets in general, including the nation's refining, pipeline and terminal infrastructure, may be future targets of terrorist organizations. any future terrorist attacks on our facilities, those of our customers, or on any transportation networks, including pipelines, could have a material adverse effect on our business. similarly, any future terrorist attacks that severely disrupt the markets we serve could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. our inventory risk management activities may result in substantial derivative variability or losses. we enter into derivative transactions to manage the risks from changes in the prices of crude oil, refined products, natural gas, and other feedstocks associated with our physical inventories and future production, and these may result in substantial derivatives variability or losses, which could increase the volatility of our earnings. we manage price risk on inventories above or below our target levels to minimize the impact these price fluctuations have on our earnings and cash flows. consequently, our results may fluctuate significantly from one reporting period to the next depending on commodity price fluctuations and our relative physical inventory positions. these transactions may also expose us to the risk of financial loss; for example, if our production is less than we anticipated at the time we entered into a hedge agreement or if a counterparty to our hedge agreement fails to perform its obligations under the agreements. see item 7a. 22 | risk factors competition in the refining, logistics and marketing industry is intense, and an increase in competition in the markets in which we sell our products could adversely affect our earnings and profitability. we compete with a broad range of refining and marketing companies, including certain multinational oil companies. competitors with greater geographic diversity, larger or more complex refineries, integrated operations with exploration and production resources and broader access to resources, may be better able to withstand volatile market conditions and to bear the risks inherent in the refining industry. for example, competitors that engage in exploration and production of crude oil may be better positioned to withstand periods of depressed refining margins or feedstock shortages. our competitors' recent consolidations and acquisitions and their plans for projects that could increase refining capacity or efficiency could increase competition in our markets, reduce our margins and affect our cash flow. in addition, we compete with alternative energy and fuel producers for some industrial, commercial and individual consumers. there is significant governmental and consumer pressure to increase the use of alternative fuels and vehicles in the united states. if these alternative energy sources gain support as a result of governmental regulations and subsidies, technological advances, consumer demand, or other causes, they could impact demand for our products and our financial condition. our operations are subject to operational hazards that could expose us to potentially significant losses. refineries, gas processing plants, pipelines, rail cars, terminals, underground gas storage and other components of our business are subject to potential operational hazards and risks inherent in refining operations and in transporting and storing crude oil, natural gas, refined products and waste. operational hazards, such as fires, floods, earthquakes, explosions, third-party accidents, maritime disasters, security breaches, pipeline ruptures and spills, mechanical failure of equipment, severe weather and other natural disasters, at our or third-party facilities, could result in business interruptions or shutdowns and damage to our properties and the properties of others. a serious accident at our facilities could also result in serious injury or death to our employees or contractors and could expose us to significant liability for personal injury claims and reputational risk. these events could create significant liabilities that are outside the limits or scope or our insurance policies, and could expose us to penalties under federal, state and local laws. the costs that we could have to pay in penalties or for clean-up, remediation and damages could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operations. any such unplanned event or shutdown could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, we operate in and adjacent to environmentally sensitive coastal waters where tanker, pipeline, rail car and refined product transportation and storage operations are closely regulated by federal, state and local agencies and monitored by environmental interest groups. our coastal refineries receive crude oil and other feedstocks by tanker. in addition, our refineries receive crude oil and other feedstocks by rail car and truck. transportation and storage of crude oil, other feedstocks and refined products over and adjacent to water involves inherent risk and subjects us to the provisions of the federal oil pollution act of 1990 and state laws in california, washington, alaska and oregon, as well as international laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate. if we are unable to promptly and adequately contain any accident or discharge involving tankers, pipelines, rail cars or above ground storage tanks transporting or storing crude oil, other feedstocks or refined products, we may be subject to substantial liability. in addition, the service providers we have contracted to aid us in a discharge response may be unavailable due to weather conditions, governmental regulations or other local or global events. international, federal or state rulings could divert our response resources to other global events. we are also required to ensure the quality and purity of the products loaded at our loading racks and pipeline connections. if our quality control measures were to fail or be compromised, we may have contaminated or off-specification products commingled in our pipelines and storage tanks that could be sent to customers and other end users. these types of incidents could result in product liability claims from our customers or other pipelines to which our pipelines connect. these product liability claims may have a material adverse effect on our business or results or operations or our ability to maintain existing customers or retain new customers. we do not maintain insurance coverage against all potential losses. marine vessel charter agreements may not provide complete indemnity for oil spills, and any marine charterer's liability insurance we carry may not cover all losses. if a loss event is not fully covered by insurance or if our insurers fail to honor their coverage commitments for an insured event or if our counterparties fail to honor any indemnification agreements, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our operations are also subject to general environmental risks, expenses and liabilities, which could affect our results of operations. from time to time we have been, and presently are, subject to litigation and investigations with respect to environmental and related matters, including product liability claims related to the oxygenate methyl tertiary butyl ether. we may become involved in further litigation or other civil or criminal proceedings, or we may be held responsible in any existing or future litigation or proceedings, the costs of which could be material. december 31, 2017 | 23 risk factors we operate and have in the past operated retail stations with underground storage tanks in various jurisdictions. federal and state regulations and legislation govern the storage tanks, and compliance with these requirements can be costly. the operation of underground storage tanks poses certain risks, including leaks. leaks from underground storage tanks, which may occur at one or more of our retail stations, or which have occurred at our previously operated retail stations, can impact soil or groundwater and result in fines and civil liability for us. large capital projects can take several years to complete, and if we are unable to complete capital projects at their expected costs or in a timely manner, or if market conditions deteriorate significantly between the project approval date and the project startup date, our results of operations, cash flows or project returns could be adversely impacted. we are constructing several new projects and expanding existing ones, such as the construction of the conan crude oil gathering pipeline system and the clean product upgrade project. the construction process involves numerous regulatory, environmental, political and legal uncertainties, most of which are not fully within our control. if we are unable to complete capital projects at their expected costs or in a timely manner our results of operations or cash flows could be adversely affected. in addition, our revenues may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds because construction or expansion may occur over an extended period of time, and we may not receive any material increases in revenues until after substantial completion of the project. to approve a large-scale capital project, the project must meet an acceptable level of return on the capital to be employed in the project. we base these economic projections on our best estimate of future market conditions that are not within our control. most large-scale projects take many years to complete and during this multi-year period, market conditions can change from those we forecast due to changes in general economic conditions, available alternative supply and changes in customer demand. accordingly, we may not be able to realize our expected returns from a large investment in a capital project, and this could negatively impact our results of operations, cash flows and return on capital employed. because of our debt obligations, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be negatively impacted by a deterioration of our credit profile, a decrease in debt capacity or unsecured commercial credit available to us, or by factors adversely affecting credit markets generally. at december 31, 2017 , our total debt obligations for borrowed money and capital lease obligations were $7.8 billion . we may incur substantial additional debt obligations in the future. our indebtedness may impose various restrictions and covenants on us that could have material adverse consequences, including: increasing our vulnerability to changing economic, regulatory and industry conditions; limiting our ability to compete and our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry; limiting our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders; limiting our ability to borrow additional funds; and requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other purposes. refining operations require certain levels of commodity inventories, which we may fund using combinations of working capital and debt. our ability to obtain credit and capital is significantly impacted by the state of the credit and capital markets, which is beyond our control. our ability to access credit and capital markets may be restricted at a time that constrains our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. certain lenders may not lend to us due to the industry in which we operate, or other factors beyond our control. in addition, the cost and availability of debt and equity financing may be adversely impacted by unstable or illiquid market conditions. uncertainty and illiquidity in these markets could also have an adverse impact on our lenders, commodity hedging counterparties, or our customers, preventing them from meeting their obligations to us. further, from time to time, we may need to supplement cash generated from operations with proceeds from financing activities. a decrease in our debt or commercial credit capacity, including unsecured credit extended by third-party suppliers, or a deterioration in our credit profile, could increase our costs of borrowing money or limit our access to the capital markets and commercial credit, which could affect our ability to manage our inventory or otherwise materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our business may be negatively affected by work stoppages, slowdowns or strikes by our employees, as well as new labor requirements. as of december 31, 2017 , approximately 2,850 of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. of these employees, approximately 1,700 are covered by collective bargaining agreements expiring on february 1, 2019 with the remaining employees covered under agreements with expirations ranging from may 2019 to march 2023. a strike, work stoppage or other labor action could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. 24 | risk factors in addition, california requires refinery owners to pay prevailing wages to contract craft workers and restricts refiners' ability to hire qualified employees to a limited pool of applicants. legislation or changes in regulations could result in labor shortages higher labor costs, and an increased risk that contract employees become joint employees of andeavor, which could trigger bargaining issues, employment discrimination liability issues as well as wage and benefit consequences, especially during critical maintenance and construction periods. ownership of the general partner of andeavor logistics may involve a greater exposure to legal liability than our historic business operations. one of our subsidiaries acts as the general partner of andeavor logistics. our control of the general partner may increase the possibility of claims of breach of fiduciary duties including claims of conflicts of interest related to andeavor logistics. any liability resulting from such claims could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.