risk factors 23 risk factors the volatility of crude oil prices, refined product prices and natural gas and electrical power prices may have a material adverse effect on our cash flow and results of operations. earnings and cash flows from our refining and wholesale marketing operations depend on a number of factors, including to a large extent the cost of crude oil and other refinery feedstocks, which has fluctuated significantly in recent years. while prices for refined products are influenced by the price of crude oil, the constantly changing margin between the price we pay for crude oil and other refinery feedstocks, and the prices at which we are able to sell refined products, also fluctuates significantly from time to time. these prices depend on numerous factors beyond our control, including the global supply and demand for crude oil, gasoline and other refined products, which are subject to, among other things: changes in the global economy and the level of foreign and domestic production of crude oil and refined products; availability of crude oil and refined products and the infrastructure to transport crude oil and refined products; local factors, including market conditions, the level of operations of other refineries in our markets, and the volume of refined products imported; threatened or actual terrorist incidents, acts of war, and other global political conditions; government regulations; and weather conditions, hurricanes or other natural disasters. in addition, we purchase our refinery feedstocks weeks before manufacturing and selling the refined products. price level changes during the period between purchasing feedstocks and selling the manufactured refined products from these feedstocks could have a significant impact on our financial results. we also purchase refined products manufactured by others for sale to our customers. price level changes during the periods between purchasing and selling these refined products could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. volatile prices for natural gas and electricity used by our refineries and other operations affect manufacturing and operating costs. natural gas and electricity prices have been, and will continue to be, affected by supply and demand for fuel and utility services in both local and regional markets. the recently completed los angeles acquisition involves risks, including risks that value of and benefits derived from the assets acquired may differ from our expectations or that we may not successfully integrate the assets we acquire. we completed the los angeles acquisition on june 1, 2013. the los angeles acquisition involves risks associated with acquisitions and integration of acquired assets, including the following: the potential for unexpected costs, delays and challenges that may arise in integrating the assets acquired into our existing business; challenges related to integrating significant operations that have a company culture that differs from our own; environmental remediation obligations assumed by tesoro costing significantly more than anticipated; and discovery of previously unknown liabilities associated with the assets acquired for which we cannot receive reimbursement under applicable indemnification provisions. even if we successfully integrate the operations we acquired in the los angeles acquisition, it may not be possible to realize the full benefits we may expect from operating synergies or other benefits anticipated or realize these benefits within the expected time frame. anticipated synergies and benefits may be offset by operating losses relating to changes in commodity prices, industry conditions, failure to retain key personnel, an increase in operating or other costs or other difficulties. if we fail to realize the synergies and benefits we anticipate from the los angeles acquisition, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. 23 table of contents adverse changes in global economic conditions and the demand for transportation fuels may impact our business and financial condition in ways that we currently cannot predict. the u.s. economy continues to recover from the recent recession, but the risk of significant global economic downturn continues. prolonged downturns without recovery could result in declines in consumer and business confidence and spending as well as increased unemployment and reduced demand for transportation fuels. this continues to adversely affect the business and economic environment in which we operate, especially on the u.s. west coast. these conditions increase the risks associated with the creditworthiness of our suppliers, customers and business partners. the consequences of such adverse effects could include interruptions or delays in our suppliers' performance of our contracts, reductions and delays in customer purchases, delays in or the inability of customers to obtain financing to purchase our products, and bankruptcy of customers. any of these events may adversely affect our cash flow, profitability and financial condition. competition from integrated oil companies that produce their own supply of feedstocks, larger independent refiners and from high volume retailers and large convenience store retailing operators who may have greater financial resources, could materially affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we compete on a global basis with a number of integrated and nationally owned oil companies who produce crude oil, some of which is used in their refining operations. unlike these oil companies, we must purchase all of our crude oil from unaffiliated sources. because these oil companies benefit from increased commodity prices, and as other larger independent refining companies have greater access to capital and have stronger capital structures, they are able to better withstand poor and volatile market conditions, such as a lower refining margin environment, shortages of crude oil and other feedstocks or extreme price fluctuations. we also face strong competition in the fuel and convenience store retailing market for the sale of retail gasoline and convenience store merchandise. our competitors include service stations operated by integrated major oil companies and well-recognized national high volume retailers or regional large chain convenience store operators, often selling gasoline or merchandise at aggressively competitive prices. some of these competitors may have access to greater financial resources, which may provide them with a better ability to bear the economic risks inherent in all phases of our industry. fundamental changes in the supply dynamics of foreign product imports could lead to reduced margins for the refined products we market, which could have an adverse effect on the profitability of our fuel retailing business. meeting the requirements of evolving environmental, health and safety laws and regulations including those related to climate change could adversely affect our performance. consistent with the experience of other u.s. refiners, environmental laws and regulations have raised operating costs and require significant capital investments at our refineries. we believe that existing physical facilities at our refineries are substantially adequate to maintain compliance with existing applicable laws and regulatory requirements. however, we may be required to address conditions that may be discovered in the future and require a response. also, potentially material expenditures could be required in the future as a result of evolving environmental, health and safety, and energy laws, regulations or requirements that may be adopted or imposed in the future. future developments in federal and state laws and regulations governing environmental, health and safety and energy matters are especially difficult to predict. currently, multiple legislative and regulatory measures to address greenhouse gas emissions (including carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxides) are in various phases of consideration, promulgation or implementation. these include actions to develop national, statewide or regional programs, each of which could require reductions in our greenhouse gas emissions. requiring reductions in our greenhouse gas emissions could result in increased costs to (i) operate and maintain our facilities, (ii) install new emission controls at our facilities and (iii) administer and manage any greenhouse gas emissions programs, including acquiring emission credits or allotments. 24 table of contents requiring reductions in our greenhouse gas emissions and increased use of renewable fuels which can be supplied by producers and marketers in other industries that supply alternative forms of energy and fuels to satisfy the requirements of our industrial, commercial and individual customers could also decrease the demand for our refined products, and could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. for example: in california, ab32 created a statewide cap on greenhouse gas emissions and requires that the state return to 1990 emission levels by 2020. ab 32 also created a low carbon fuel standard, which requires a 10% reduction in the carbon intensity of fuels by 2020. although a california court determined that this standard is unconstitutional in december 2011, the carb has appealed the decision. on april 23, 2012, the u.s. 9 th circuit court of appeals stayed the lower court's preliminary injunction of the carb's enforcement of the standard pending the appeal and we cannot predict the outcome of the pending appeal. the epa proposed regulations in 2009, that would require the reduction of emissions of greenhouse gases from light trucks and cars, and would establish permitting thresholds for stationary sources that emit greenhouse gases and require emissions controls for those sources. promulgation of the final rule on april 1, 2010, has resulted in a cascade of related rulemakings by the epa pursuant to the clean air act relative to controlling greenhouse gas emissions. in december 2007, the energy independence and security act was enacted into federal law, which created rfs2. this standard, based on current legislation, requires the total volume of renewable transportation fuels (including ethanol and advanced biofuels) sold or introduced in the u.s. to reach 18.2 billion gallons in 2014 and to increase to 36 billion gallons by 2022. however, the epa has proposed to reduce the total renewable fuel and advanced biofuel requirement to 15.2 billion for 2014. in addition, the inability of third parties to manufacture advanced biofuels may prohibit us from meeting the requirements of the energy independence and security act of 2007. regulatory and other requirements concerning the transportation of crude oil, particularly crude oil from the bakken area, may cause increases in transportation costs or limit the amount of crude that we can transport by rail. in recent years, north american crude oil production has significantly increased and the refining industry is heavily relying on transportation by rail to deliver such crude oil to refineries. part of our strategy has been to invest in rail unloading facilities that allow for the delivery of cost-advantaged north american crude oil to the u.s. west coast. in 2012, we completed the construction of a 50 mbpd crude oil rail car unloading facility in anacortes, washington, (the anacortes rail facility ) which tllp subsequently acquired from us. the anacortes rail facility allows us to receive bakken crude oil into our nearby refinery. we have also entered into a joint venture with savage companies to construct, own and operate a unit train unloading and marine loading terminal at the port of vancouver, washington. the construction of the terminal is subject to approval by regulatory agencies and will have an initial capacity of 120 mbpd and potential near-term expansion capacity up to 300 mbpd. in the last year, there have been several incidents involving rail cars carrying crude oil from the bakken region. although none of these incidents involved our rail cars, the outcome of investigations, including the implementation of new rail car standards and other regulatory requirements, could impact our operations. federal regulators have expressed a concern that bakken crude oil may be more volatile than other north american crude oil. due to concerns about the increased movement of crude oil, particularly bakken crude, through highly populated areas, the rail industry has announced new railroad operating practices for transportation of crude oil. these voluntary changes are designed to avoid derailments by reducing speeds in or rerouting trains around high-population areas. these operating practices as well as potential new regulations on tank car standards and shipper classification could increase the time required to move crude oil from production areas to our refineries, increase the cost of rail transportation and decrease the efficiency of shipments of crude oil by rail within our operations. any of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. our operations are subject to operational hazards that could expose us to potentially significant losses. our operations are subject to potential operational hazards and risks inherent in refining operations and in transporting and storing crude oil and refined products. any of these risks, such as fires, explosions, maritime disasters, security breaches, pipeline ruptures and spills, mechanical failure of equipment, and severe weather and natural disasters, at our or third-party facilities, could result in business interruptions or shutdowns and damage to our properties and the properties of others. a serious accident at our facilities could also result in serious injury or death to our employees or contractors and could expose us to significant liability for personal injury claims and reputational risk. any such event or unplanned shutdown could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 25 table of contents we carry property, casualty and business interruption insurance but we do not maintain insurance coverage against all potential losses. marine vessel charter agreements do not include indemnity provisions for oil spills so we also carry marine charterer's liability insurance. we could suffer losses for uninsurable or uninsured risks or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage. the occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance or failure by one or more insurers to honor its coverage commitments for an insured event could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. while we do not act as an owner or operator of any marine tankers, we do maintain marine charterer's liability insurance with a primary coverage of $500 million , subject to a $25,000 deductible, and an additional $500 million in umbrella policies for a total of $1 billion in coverage for liabilities, costs and expenses arising from a discharge of pollutants. in addition, tesoro maintains $10 million in marine terminal operator's liability coverage, subject to a $150,000 deductible, and an additional $500 million in umbrella coverage for a total of $510 million in coverage for sudden and accidental pollution events and liability arising from marine terminal operations. we cannot assure you that we will not suffer losses in excess of such coverage. our business is impacted by environmental risks inherent in our operations. the operation of refineries, pipelines, rail cars and refined products terminals is inherently subject to the risks of spills, discharges or other inadvertent releases of petroleum or hazardous substances. these events could occur in connection with any of our refineries, pipelines, rail cars or refined products terminals, or in connection with any facilities which receives our wastes or by-products for treatment or disposal. if any of these events occur, or is found to have previously occurred, we could be liable for costs and penalties associated with their remediation under federal, state and local environmental laws or common law, and could be liable for property damage to third parties caused by contamination from releases and spills. the penalties and clean-up costs that we may have to pay for releases or the amounts that we may have to pay to third parties for damages to their property, could be significant and the payment of these amounts could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we operate in and adjacent to environmentally sensitive coastal waters where tanker, pipeline, rail car and refined product transportation and storage operations are closely regulated by federal, state and local agencies and monitored by environmental interest groups. our california and pacific northwest refineries import crude oil and other feedstocks by tanker. in addition, our washington refinery receives crude oil by rail car. transportation and storage of crude oil and refined products over and adjacent to water involves inherent risk and subjects us to the provisions of the federal oil pollution act of 1990 and state laws in california, washington and alaska. among other things, these laws require us and the owners of tankers that we charter to deliver crude oil to our refineries to demonstrate in some situations the capacity to respond to a spill up to one million barrels of oil from a tanker and up to 600,000 barrels of oil from an above ground storage tank adjacent to water (a worst case discharge ) to the maximum extent possible. we and the owners of tankers we charter have contracted with various spill response service companies in the areas in which we transport and store crude oil and refined products to meet the requirements of the federal oil pollution act of 1990 and state and foreign laws. however, there may be accidents involving tankers, pipelines, rail cars or above ground storage tanks transporting or storing crude oil or refined products, and response services may not respond to a worst case discharge in a manner that will adequately contain that discharge, or we may be subject to liability in connection with a discharge. additionally, we cannot ensure that all resources of a contracted response service company could be available for our or a chartered tanker owner's use at any given time. there are many factors that could inhibit the availability of these resources, including, but not limited to, weather conditions, governmental regulations or other global events. by requirement of state or federal rulings, these resources could be diverted to respond to other global events. our operations are also subject to general environmental risks, expenses and liabilities which could affect our results of operations. from time to time we have been, and presently are, subject to litigation and investigations with respect to environmental and related matters, including product liability claims related to the oxygenate methyl tertiary butyl ether. we may become involved in further litigation or other civil or criminal proceedings, or we may be held responsible in any existing or future litigation or proceedings, the costs of which could be material. we operate and have in the past operated retail stations with underground storage tanks in various jurisdictions. federal and state regulations and legislation govern the storage tanks, and compliance with these requirements can be costly. the operation of underground storage tanks poses certain risks, including leaks. leaks from underground storage tanks, which may occur at one or more of our retail stations, or which may have occurred at our previously operated retail stations, may impact soil or groundwater and could result in fines or civil liability for us. 26 table of contents our business may be negatively affected by work stoppages, slowdowns or strikes by our employees, as well as new labor legislation issued by regulators. currently, approximately 2,000 or our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. the agreements for approximately 90 of these employees will expire on february 28, 2014, while the agreements for the remaining represented employees expire in the first half of 2015. we are currently in negotiations for the agreements expiring in 2014, and there is no assurance an agreement will be reached without a strike, work stoppage or other labor action. any prolonged strike, work stoppage or other labor action could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. in september 2013, the california legislature passed legislation which requires refinery owners to pay prevailing wages to contract workers and restricts their ability to hire qualified employees to a limited pool of applicants. tesoro will be compliant with this law, but this legislation could result in labor shortages and higher costs, especially during critical maintenance periods. our cash needs may exceed our internally generated cash flow, and our business could be materially and adversely affected if we are not able to obtain the necessary funds from financing activities. we have substantial cash needs. our short-term cash needs are primarily to satisfy working capital requirements, including crude oil purchases, which fluctuate with the pricing and sourcing of crude oil. our longer-term cash needs also include capital expenditures for infrastructure, environmental and regulatory compliance, maintenance turnarounds at our refineries and upgrade and business strategy projects. we primarily supply our cash needs with cash generated from our operations; however, if the price of crude oil increases significantly, our cash requirements may exceed our cash flow. in such instances, we may not have sufficient borrowing capacity, and may not be able to sufficiently increase borrowing capacity under our existing credit facilities to support our short-term and long-term capital requirements. debt and equity capital markets continue to be volatile, and we may not be able to secure additional financing on terms and at a cost acceptable to us, if at all. if we cannot generate cash flow and funding is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may not be able to operate our refineries at the desired capacity, fund our capital requirements, take advantage of business opportunities, respond to competitive pressures or complete our business strategies, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our inventory risk management activities are designed to manage the risk of volatile prices associated with our physical inventory and may result in substantial derivative gains and losses. we enter into derivative transactions to manage the risks from changes in the prices of crude oil and refined products. our inventory risk management activities are designed to manage the risk stemming from the volatile prices associated with our physical inventories and may result in substantial derivatives gains and losses. we manage price risk on inventories above or below our target levels to minimize the impact these price fluctuations have on our earnings and cash flows. consequently, our results may fluctuate significantly from one reporting period to the next depending on commodity price fluctuations and our relative physical inventory positions. see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in part ii, item 7a. we are subject to interruptions of supply and increased costs as a result of our reliance on third-party transportation of crude oil and refined products. our washington refinery receives crude oil delivered by a third-party rail carrier. in addition, all of its canadian crude oil and a significant percentage of its gasoline, diesel fuel and jet fuel are delivered through third-party pipelines. additional supply and distribution of feedstocks and refined products are transported via marine vessels providing additional supply and distribution of feedstocks and refined products. our alaska refinery receives most of its crude oil and transports a substantial percentage of its refined products via ships and barges. our utah refinery receives the majority of its crude oil via third-party pipelines and delivers a portion of its refined products via the northwest products pipeline, owned by tllp. our north dakota refinery delivers a significant percentage of its refined products via a third-party pipeline system. our martinez refinery receives crude oil via a combination of third-party pipelines and marine vessels, and the majority of the refinery's production is delivered via third-party pipelines, ships and barges. our los angeles refinery receives crude oil via third-party pipelines and marine vessels, and delivers a portion of its production via third-party pipelines, terminals, ships and barges. in addition to environmental risks discussed above, we could experience an interruption of supply or an increased cost to deliver refined products to market if the ability of the pipelines or vessels to transport crude oil or refined products is disrupted because of accidents, governmental regulation or third-party action. a prolonged disruption of the ability of a pipeline or vessels to transport crude oil or refined products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 27 table of contents we depend upon tllp for a substantial portion of the logistics networks that serve our refineries' supply and distribution needs and have obligations for minimum volume commitments in many of our agreements with tllp. tllp provides our martinez, los angeles, washington, alaska, north dakota and utah refineries with various pipeline transportation, trucking, terminal distribution and storage services under long-term, fee-based commercial agreements expiring in 2016 through 2023 . each of these agreements, with the exception of the storage and transportation services agreement, contain minimum volume commitments. if we do not satisfy the minimum volume commitments, we will still be responsible for payment for transportation and storage services as if we had utilized such minimum volumes. tllp's ability to continue operations could significantly impact their ability to serve our supply and distribution needs. tllp's operations are subject to all of the risks and operational hazards inherent in transporting and storing crude oil and refined products, including: damage to pipelines and facilities, related equipment and surrounding properties caused by earthquakes, floods, fires, severe weather, explosions and other natural disasters and acts of terrorism; mechanical or structural failures; curtailments of operations relative to severe weather; inadvertent damage to pipelines from construction, farm and utility equipment; and other hazards. any of these events or factors could result in severe damage or destruction to tllp's assets or the temporary or permanent shut-down of tllp's pipelines or facilities. if tllp is unable to serve our supply and distribution network needs, our ability to operate our refineries and transport refined products could be adversely impacted, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, tllp's operations are subject to environmental regulations affecting pipeline operations. in addition, we own an approximate 36% interest in tllp, including the 2% general partner interest. the inability of tllp to continue operations, or the occurrence of any of these risks or operational hazards, could also adversely impact the value of our investment in tllp and, because tllp is a consolidated variable interest entity, our business, financial condition and results of operations. we rely upon certain critical information systems for the operation of our business, and the failure of any critical information system, including a cyber-security breach, may result in harm to our business. we are heavily dependent on our technology infrastructure and maintain and rely upon certain critical information systems for the effective operation of our business. these information systems include data network and telecommunications, internet access and our websites, and various computer hardware equipment and software applications, including those that are critical to the safe operation of our refineries, pipelines and terminals. these information systems are subject to damage or interruption from a number of potential sources including natural disasters, software viruses or other malware, power failures, cyber-attacks, and other events. to the extent that these information systems are under our control, we have implemented measures such as virus protection software, intrusion detection systems, and emergency recovery processes, to address the outlined risks. however, security measures for information systems cannot be guaranteed to be failsafe. any compromise of our data security or our inability to use or access these information systems at critical points in time could unfavorably impact the timely and efficient operation of our business and subject us to additional costs and liabilities, which could adversely affect our results. finally, federal legislation relating to cyber-security threats could impose additional requirements on our operations. 28 table of contents terrorist attacks and threats or actual war may negatively impact our business. our business is affected by global economic conditions and fluctuations in consumer confidence and spending, which can decline as a result of numerous factors outside of our control, such as actual or threatened terrorist attacks and acts of war. terrorist attacks, as well as events occurring in response to or in connection with them, including future terrorist attacks against u.s. targets, rumors or threats of war, actual conflicts involving the u.s. or its allies, or military or trade disruptions impacting our suppliers or our customers or energy markets, may adversely impact our operations. as a result, there could be delays or losses in the delivery of supplies and raw materials to us, delays in our delivery of refined products, decreased sales of our refined products and extension of time for payment of accounts receivable from our customers. strategic targets such as energy-related assets (which could include refineries such as ours) may be at greater risk of future terrorist attacks than other targets in the u.s. these occurrences could significantly impact energy prices, including prices for our crude oil and refined products, and have a material adverse impact on the margins from our refining and wholesale marketing operations. in addition, significant increases in energy prices could result in government-imposed price controls. any one of, or a combination of, these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our operating results are seasonal and typically are lower in the first and fourth quarters of the year. demand for gasoline is higher during the spring and summer months than during the winter months in most of our markets due to seasonal changes in highway traffic. as a result, our operating results for the first and fourth quarters are typically lower than for those in the second and third quarters. compliance with and changes in tax laws could adversely affect our performance. we are subject to extensive tax laws and regulations, including federal, state, and foreign income taxes and transactional taxes such as excise, sales/use, payroll, franchise, and ad valorem taxes. new tax laws and regulations and changes in existing tax laws and regulations are frequently being enacted that could result in increased tax expenditures in the future. many of these tax liabilities are subject to audits by the respective taxing authority. these audits may result in additional taxes as well as interest and penalties.