quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk 33 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk interest rate risk we maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types and maturities. these securities are generally classified as available-for-sale and, consequently, are recorded on the consolidated balance sheet at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). at any time, a rise in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our investment portfolio. conversely, declines in interest rates could have a material impact on interest earnings of our investment portfolio. we do not currently hedge these interest rate exposures. the following table presents the hypothetical changes in fair value of the financial instruments held at december 31, 2002 that are sensitive to changes in interest rates (in thousands): valuation of securities given an interest valuation of securities given an interest rate decrease of x basis points (bps) rate increase of x bps fair value as of issuer (150 bps) (100 bps) (50 bps) december 31, 2002 50 bps 100 bps 150 bps government treasury and agencies $ 306,408 $ 304,658 $ 302,908 $ 301,159 $ 299,409 $ 297,659 $ 295,909 corporate bonds and notes 547,629 545,484 543,340 541,195 539,051 536,906 534,762 asset backed securities and other 197,000 196,448 195,896 195,344 194,792 194,240 193,689 total $ 1,051,037 $ 1,046,590 $ 1,042,144 $ 1,037,698 $ 1,033,252 $ 1,028,805 $ 1,024,360 these instruments are not leveraged and are held for purposes other than trading. the modeling technique used measures the changes in fair value arising from selected potential changes in interest rates. market changes reflect immediate hypothetical parallel shifts in the yield curve of plus or minus 50 basis points (bps), 100 bps and 150 bps, which are representative of the historical movements in the federal funds rate. foreign currency risk and foreign exchange forward contracts. the majority of our revenue and expenses are transacted in us dollars. however, since we have sales and service operations outside of the us, we do have some transactions that are denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the euro, japanese yen, hong kong dollar, british pound and the australian dollar. we enter into foreign exchange forward contracts to mitigate the effect of gains and losses generated by the remeasurement of certain assets and liabilities denominated primarily in the euro, japanese yen, british pound and australian dollar. these derivatives are not designated as hedges under sfas no. 133 ( sfas 133 ), accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities. at december 31, 33 table of contents 2002, the notional and fair values of these contracts were not material. we do not expect gains and losses on these contracts to have a material impact on our financial results. we also use foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge foreign currency forecasted transactions related to certain operating expenses, denominated primarily in the euro, japanese yen, british pound and australian dollar. these derivatives are designated as cash flow hedges under sfas 133. at december 31, 2002, the notional and fair values of these contracts were not material. we do not expect gains and losses on these contracts to have a material impact on our financial results. these contracts have original maturities ranging from one to three months. we do not enter into foreign exchange contracts for speculative or trading purposes. we attempt to limit our exposure to credit risk by executing foreign contracts with credit worthy financial institutions. 34 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk 34 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk interest rate risk we maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types and maturities. these securities are generally classified as available-for-sale and, consequently, are recorded on the consolidated balance sheet at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). at any time, a rise in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our investment portfolio. conversely, declines in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on interest earnings of our investment portfolio. we do not currently hedge these interest rate exposures. the following table presents the hypothetical changes in fair value of the financial instruments held at december 31, 2003 that are sensitive to changes in interest rates (in thousands): valuation of securities given an interest fair value valuation of securities given an interest rate decrease of x basis points (bps) as of rate increase of x bps december issuer (150 bps) (100 bps) (50 bps) 31, 2003 50 bps 100 bps 150 bps government treasury and agencies $ 155,828 $ 154,979 $ 154,131 $ 153,282 $ 152,434 $ 151,585 $ 150,737 corporate bonds and notes 376,370 374,432 372,493 370,554 368,617 366,679 364,740 asset backed securities and other 183,270 182,993 182,716 182,439 182,162 181,884 181,607 total $ 715,468 $ 712,404 $ 709,340 $ 706,275 $ 703,213 $ 700,148 $ 697,084 these instruments are not leveraged and are held for purposes other than trading. the modeling technique used measures the changes in fair value arising from selected potential changes in interest rates. market changes reflect immediate hypothetical parallel shifts in the yield curve of plus or minus 50 basis points (bps), 100 bps and 150 bps, which are representative of the historical movements in the federal funds rate. foreign currency risk and foreign exchange forward contracts. the majority of our revenue and expenses are transacted in us dollars. however, since we have sales and service operations outside of the us, we do have some transactions that are denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the euro, japanese yen, hong kong dollar, british pound and the australian dollar. we enter into foreign exchange forward contracts to mitigate the effect of gains and losses generated by the remeasurement of certain assets and liabilities denominated primarily in the euro, japanese yen, british pound and australian dollar. these derivatives are not designated as hedges under sfas no. 133 ( sfas 133 ), accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities. at december 31, 34 table of contents 2003, the notional and fair values of these contracts were insignificant. we do not expect gains and losses on these contracts to have a material impact on our financial results. we also use foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge foreign currency forecasted transactions related to certain operating expenses, denominated primarily in the euro, japanese yen, british pound and australian dollar. these derivatives are designated as cash flow hedges under sfas 133. at december 31, 2003, the notional and fair values of these contracts were insignificant. we do not expect gains and losses on these contracts to have a material impact on our financial results. these contracts have original maturities ranging from one to three months. we do not enter into foreign exchange contracts for speculative or trading purposes. we attempt to limit our exposure to credit risk by executing foreign contracts with credit worthy financial institutions. 35 table of contentsrisk factors 16 risk factors factors that may affect future results investments in equity securities of publicly traded companies involve significant risks. the market price of our stock reflects a higher multiple of expected future earnings than many other companies. accordingly, even small changes in investor expectations for our future growth and earnings, whether as a result of actual or rumored financial or operating results, changes in the mix of the products and services sold, acquisitions, industry changes or other factors, could trigger significant fluctuations in the market price of our common stock. investors in our securities should carefully consider all of the relevant factors, including, but not limited to, the following factors, that could affect our stock price. matters related to the investigation into our historical stock option granting practices and the restatement of our financial statements may result in additional litigation, regulatory proceedings and government enforcement actions. our historical stock option granting practices and the restatement of our financial statements have exposed us to greater risks associated with litigation, regulatory proceedings and government enforcement actions. for more information regarding our current litigation and related inquiries, please see part i, item 3- legal proceedings as well as the other risk factors related to litigation set forth in this section. we have provided the results of our internal review and independent investigation to the securities and exchange commission ( sec ) and the united states attorney office for the northern district of california, and in that regard we have responded to formal and informal requests for documents and additional information. we intend to continue to cooperate with these governmental agencies. no assurance can be given regarding the outcomes from litigation, regulatory proceedings or government enforcement actions relating to our past stock option practices. the resolution of these matters will be time consuming, expensive, and may distract management from the conduct of our business. furthermore, if we are subject to adverse findings in litigation, regulatory proceedings or government enforcement actions, we could be required to pay damages or penalties or have other remedies imposed, which could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, while we believe that we have made appropriate judgments in determining the correct measurement dates for our stock option grants, the sec may disagree with the manner in which we accounted for and reported, or not reported, the corresponding financial impact. accordingly, there is a risk that we may have to further restate our prior financial statements, amend prior filings with the sec, or take other actions not currently contemplated. also, in august 2006, we received a nasdaq staff determination letter stating that, as a result of the delayed filing of our quarterly report on form 10-q for the quarter ended june 30, 2006 (the second quarter form 10-q ), we were not in compliance with the filing requirements for continued listing as set forth in marketplace rule 4310(c)(14) and were therefore subject to delisting from the nasdaq global select market. in november 2006, we received an additional letter from nasdaq of similar substance related to our form 10-q for the quarter ended september 30, 2006 (the third quarter form 10-q ). in december 2006, the nasdaq listing qualifications panel granted our request for continued listing, provided that we file a written summary of our audit committee findings with nasdaq as well as the second quarter form 10-q, the third quarter form 10-q and any required restatements with the sec on or before february 12, 2007. in january, we received a notice from the nasdaq listing and hearings review council which advised us that any delisting determination by the nasdaq listing qualifications panel has been stayed pending further review by the review council. we have been given until march 30, 2007 to submit additional information to assist the review council in their assessment of our listing status. on february 20, 2007, we filed a written summary of our audit committee findings with nasdaq. in addition, on march 9, 2007, we filed the second quarter form 10-q and the third quarter form 10-q with the sec. we consider that the filing of these materials has remedied our non-compliance with marketplace rule 4310(c)(14), subject to nasdaq affirmative completion of its compliance protocols and its notification to us accordingly. however, if nasdaq disagrees with our position or if the sec disagrees with the manner in which we have accounted for and reported, or not reported, the financial impact of past stock option grants, there could be further delays in filing subsequent sec reports or other actions that might result in delisting of our common stock from the nasdaq global select market. fluctuating economic conditions make it difficult to predict revenues for a particular period and a shortfall in revenues may harm our operating results. our revenues depend significantly on general economic conditions and the demand for products in the markets in which we compete. economic weakness, customer financial difficulties and constrained spending on network expansion have previously resulted (for example, in 2001 and 2002), and may in the future result, in decreased revenues and earnings and could negatively impact our ability to forecast and manage our contract manufacturer relationships. economic downturns may also lead to restructuring initiatives and associated expenses and impairment of investments. in addition, our operating expenses are largely based on 16 table of contents anticipated revenue trends and a high percentage of our expenses are, and will continue to be, fixed in the short-term. uncertainty about future economic conditions makes it difficult to forecast operating results and to make decisions about future investments. future economic weakness, customer financial difficulties and reductions in spending on network expansion could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and consequently on our results of operations and stock price. our quarterly results are inherently unpredictable and subject to substantial fluctuations and, as a result, we may fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. our revenues and operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control and any of which may cause our stock price to fluctuate. the factors that may affect the unpredictability of our quarterly results include, but are not limited to, limited visibility into customer spending plans, changes in the mix of products sold, changing market conditions, including current and potential customer consolidation, competition, customer concentration, long sales and implementation cycles, regional economic and political conditions and seasonality. for example, many companies in our industry experience adverse seasonal fluctuations in customer spending patterns, particularly in the first and third quarters. as a result, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of operating results are not necessarily a good indication of what our future performance will be. it is likely that in some future quarters, our operating results may be below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, in which case the price of our common stock may decline. such a decline could occur, and has occurred in the past, even when we have met our publicly stated revenue and/or earnings guidance. we sell our products to customers that use those products to build networks and ip infrastructure and, if the demand for network and ip systems does not continue to grow, then our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. a substantial portion of our business and revenue depends on the growth of secure ip infrastructure and on the deployment of our products by customers that depend on the continued growth of ip services. as a result of changes in the economy and capital spending or the building of network capacity in excess of demand, all of which have in the past particularly affected telecommunications service providers, spending on ip infrastructure can vary, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. in addition, a number of our existing customers are evaluating the build out of their next generation network, or ngn. during the decision making period when the customers are determining the design of those networks and the selection of the equipment they will use in those networks, such customers may greatly reduce or suspend their spending on secure ip infrastructure. such pauses in purchases can make it more difficult to predict revenues from such customers can cause fluctuations in the level of spending by these customers and, even where our products are ultimately selected, can have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. a limited number of our customers comprise a significant portion of our revenues and any decrease in revenue from these customers could have an adverse effect on our net revenues and operating results. a substantial majority of our net revenues depend on sales to a limited number of customers and distribution partners. siemens accounted for greater than 10% of our net revenues during the years ended 2006, 2005 and 2004. this customer concentration increases the risk of quarterly fluctuations in our revenues and operating results. any downturn in the business of our key customers or potential new customers could significantly decrease sales to such customers, which could adversely affect our net revenues and results of operations. in addition, there has been and continues to be consolidation in the telecommunications industry (for example, the acquisitions of at t inc., mci, inc. and bellsouth corporation) and consolidation among the large vendors of telecommunications equipment and services (for example, the combination of alcatel and lucent and the acquisition of redback by ericsson). such consolidation may cause our customers who are involved in these acquisitions to suspend or indefinitely reduce their purchases of our products or have other unforeseen consequences that could harm our business and operating results. we rely on value-added resellers and distribution partners to sell our products, and disruptions to, or our failure to effectively develop and manage, our distribution channel and the processes and procedures that support it could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues from the sale of our products. our future success is highly dependent upon establishing and maintaining successful relationships with a variety of value-added reseller and distribution partners. the majority of our revenues are derived through value-added resellers and distributors, most of which also sell competitors products. our revenues depend in part on the performance of these partners. the loss of or reduction in 17 table of contents sales to our value-added resellers or distributors could materially reduce our revenues. during 2006, alcatel, another value-added reseller and a competitor of ours, acquired lucent, one of our largest value-added resellers. in addition, our largest customer, siemens, has announced that it will be transferring its telecommunications business to a joint venture between siemens and nokia. our competitors may in some cases be effective in providing incentives to current or potential resellers and distributors to favor their products or to prevent or reduce sales of our products. if we fail to maintain relationships with our partners, fail to develop new relationships with value-added resellers and distributors in new markets or expand the number of distributors and resellers in existing markets, fail to manage, train or motivate existing value-added resellers and distributors effectively or if these partners are not successful in their sales efforts, sales of our products may decrease and our operating results would suffer. in addition, we recognize a portion of our revenue based on a sell-through model using information provided by our distributors. if those distributors provide us with inaccurate or untimely information, the amount or timing of our revenues could be adversely impacted. further, in order to develop and expand our distribution channel, we must continue to scale and improve our processes and procedures that support it, and those processes and procedures may become increasingly complex and inherently difficult to manage. our failure to successfully manage and develop our distribution channel and the processes and procedures that support it could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues from the sale of our products. traditional telecommunications companies and other large companies generally require more onerous terms and conditions of their vendors. as we seek to sell more products to such customers, we may be required to agree to terms and conditions that may have an adverse effect on our business or ability to recognize revenues. traditional telecommunications companies and other large companies, because of their size, generally have had greater purchasing power and, accordingly, have requested and received more favorable terms, which often translate into more onerous terms and conditions for their vendors. as we seek to sell more products to this class of customer, we may be required to agree to such terms and conditions, which may include terms that affect the timing of our ability to recognize revenue and have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. for example, many customers in this class have purchased products from other vendors who promised certain functionality and failed to deliver such functionality and/or had products that caused problems and outages in the networks of these customers. as a result, this class of customers may request additional features from us and require substantial penalties for failure to deliver such features or may require substantial penalties for any network outages that may be caused by our products. these additional requests and penalties, if we are required to agree to them, would affect our ability to recognize the revenues from such sales, which may negatively affect our business and our financial condition. for example, in april 2006, we announced that we would be required to defer a large amount of revenue from a customer due to the contractual obligations required by that customer. for arrangements with multiple elements, vendor specific objective evidence of fair value is required in order to separate the components and to account for elements of the arrangement separately. vendor specific objective evidence of fair value is based on the price charged when the element is sold separately. however, customers may require terms and conditions that make it more difficult or impossible for us to maintain vendor specific objective evidence of fair value for the undelivered elements to a similar group of customers, the result of which could cause us to defer the entire arrangement fees for a similar group of customers (product, maintenance, professional services, etc.) and recognize revenue only when the last element is delivered or if the only undelivered element is maintenance revenue would be recognized ratably over the contractual maintenance period which is generally one year. we face intense competition that could reduce our revenues and adversely affect our financial results. competition is intense in the markets that we address. the ip infrastructure market has historically been dominated by cisco with other companies such as alcatel-lucent, ericsson, huawei, and nortel providing products to a smaller segment of the market. in addition, a number of other small public and private companies have products or have announced plans for new products to address the same challenges that our products address. in the service layer technologies market, we face intense competition from a broader group of companies including appliance vendors such as cisco, fortinet, f5 networks, nortel and riverbed, and software vendors such as checkpoint. in addition, a number of other small public and private companies have products or have announced plans for new products to address the same challenges that our products address. 18 table of contents in addition, actual or speculated consolidation among competitors, or the acquisition of our partners and resellers by competitors, can increase the competitive pressures faced by us. in this regard, alcatel has recently combined with lucent and ericsson has recently acquired redback. a number of our competitors have substantially greater resources and can offer a wider range of products and services for the overall network equipment market than we do. if we are unable to compete successfully against existing and future competitors on the basis of product offerings or price, we could experience a loss in market share and revenues and/or be required to reduce prices, which could reduce our gross margins, and which could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. if we do not successfully anticipate market needs and develop products and product enhancements that meet those needs, or if those products do not gain market acceptance, we may not be able to compete effectively and our ability to generate revenues will suffer. we cannot guarantee that we will be able to anticipate future market needs or be able to develop new products or product enhancements to meet such needs or to meet them in a timely manner. if we fail to anticipate the market requirements or to develop new products or product enhancements to meet those needs, such failure could substantially decrease market acceptance and sales of our present and future products, which would significantly harm our business and financial results. even if we are able to anticipate, develop and commercially introduce new products and enhancements, there can be no assurance that new products or enhancements will achieve widespread market acceptance. any failure of our products to achieve market acceptance could adversely affect our business and financial results. we are a party to lawsuits, which are costly to investigate and defend and, if determined adversely to us, could require us to pay damages, any or all of which could harm our business and financial condition. we and certain of our current and former officers and current and former members of our board of directors are subject to various lawsuits. for example, the sec and u.s. attorney office have inquired regarding our stock option pricing practices, and we have been served with lawsuits related to the alleged backdating of stock options and other related matters, a description of which can be found below in part i, item 3 legal proceedings. there can be no assurance that these or any actions that have been or may be brought against us will be resolved in our favor. regardless of whether they are resolved in our favor, these lawsuits are, and any future lawsuits to which we may become a party will likely be, expensive and time consuming to investigate, defend and/or resolve. such costs of investigation and defense, as well as any losses resulting from these claims, could significantly increase our expenses and adversely affect our profitability and cash flow. if we fail to accurately predict our manufacturing requirements, we could incur additional costs or experience manufacturing delays which would harm our business. we provide demand forecasts to our contract manufacturers. if we overestimate our requirements, the contract manufacturers may assess charges or we may have liabilities for excess inventory, each of which could negatively affect our gross margins. conversely, because lead times for required materials and components vary significantly and depend on factors such as the specific supplier, contract terms and the demand for each component at a given time, if we underestimate our requirements, the contract manufacturers may have inadequate time or materials and components required to produce our products, which could delay or interrupt manufacturing of our products and result in delays in shipments and deferral or loss of revenues. if we fail to adequately evolve our financial and managerial control and reporting systems and processes, our ability to manage and grow our business will be negatively affected. our ability to successfully offer our products and implement our business plan in a rapidly evolving market depends upon an effective planning and management process. we will need to continue to improve our financial and managerial control and our reporting systems and procedures in order to manage our business effectively in the future. if we fail to continue to implement improved systems and processes, our ability to manage our business and results of operations may be negatively affected. our ability to develop, market and sell products could be harmed if we are unable to retain or hire key personnel. our future success depends upon our ability to recruit and retain the services of key executive, engineering, sales, marketing and support personnel. the supply of highly qualified individuals, in particular engineers in very specialized technical areas, or sales people specializing in the service provider and enterprise markets, is limited and competition for such individuals is intense. none of our officers or key employees is bound by an employment agreement for any specific term. the loss of the services of any of our key employees, the inability to attract or retain key personnel in the future or delays in hiring required personnel, particularly engineers 19 table of contents and sales people, and the complexity and time involved in replacing or training new employees, could delay the development and introduction of new products, and negatively impact our ability to market, sell or support our products. our reported financial results could suffer if there is an additional impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets with indefinite lives. we are required to annually test, and review on an interim basis, our goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives, including the goodwill associated with past acquisitions and any future acquisitions, to determine if impairment has occurred. if such assets are deemed impaired, an impairment loss equal to the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the fair value of the assets would be recognized. this would result in incremental expenses for that quarter which would reduce any earnings or increase any loss for the period in which the impairment was determined to have occurred. for example, such impairment could occur if the market value of our common stock falls below certain levels for a sustained period or if the portions of our business related to companies we have acquired fail to grow at expected rates or decline. in the second quarter of 2006, this impairment evaluation resulted in a reduction of $1,280.0 million to the carrying value of goodwill on our balance sheet for the slt operating segment, primarily due to the decline in the company market capitalization that occurred over a period of approximately six months prior to the impairment review and, to a lesser extent, a decrease in the forecasted future cash flows used in the income approach.. further declines in our stock prices in the future as well as any marked decline in our level of revenues or gross margins increase the risk that goodwill and intangible assets may become impaired in future periods. we cannot accurately predict the amount and timing of any impairment of assets. litigation or claims regarding intellectual property rights may be time consuming, expensive and require a significant amount of resources to prosecute, defend or make our products non-infringing. third parties have asserted and may in the future assert claims or initiate litigation related to patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights to technologies and related standards that are relevant to our products. for example, in 2003, toshiba corporation filed a lawsuit against us, alleging that our products infringe certain toshiba patents. the asserted claims and/or initiated litigation may include claims against us or our manufacturers, suppliers or customers, alleging infringement of their proprietary rights with respect to our products. regardless of the merit of these claims, they can be time-consuming, result in costly litigation and may require us to develop non-infringing technologies or enter into license agreements. furthermore, because of the potential for high awards of damages or injunctive relief that are not necessarily predictable, even arguably unmeritorious claims may be settled for significant amounts of money. if any infringement or other intellectual property claim made against us by any third party is successful, if we are required to settle litigation for significant amounts of money, or if we fail to develop non-infringing technology or license required proprietary rights on commercially reasonable terms and conditions, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. the long sales and implementation cycles for our products, as well as our expectation that some customers will sporadically place large orders with short lead times, may cause our revenues and operating results to vary significantly from quarter to quarter. a customer decision to purchase certain of our products involves a significant commitment of its resources and a lengthy evaluation and product qualification process. as a result, the sales cycle may be lengthy. in particular, customers making critical decisions regarding the design and implementation of large or next-generation networks may engage in very lengthy procurement processes that may delay or impact expected future orders. throughout the sales cycle, we may spend considerable time educating and providing information to prospective customers regarding the use and benefits of our products. even after making the decision to purchase, customers may deploy our products slowly and deliberately. timing of deployment can vary widely and depends on the skill set of the customer, the size of the network deployment, the complexity of the customer network environment and the degree of hardware and operating system configuration necessary to deploy the products. customers with large networks usually expand their networks in large increments on a periodic basis. accordingly, we may receive purchase orders for significant dollar amounts on an irregular basis. these long cycles, as well as our expectation that customers will tend to sporadically place large orders with short lead times, may cause revenues and operating results to vary significantly and unexpectedly from quarter to quarter. we are dependent on sole source and limited source suppliers for several key components, which makes us susceptible to shortages or price fluctuations in our supply chain and we may face increased challenges in supply chain management in the future. with the current demand for electronic products, component shortages are possible and the predictability of the availability of such components may be limited. growth in our business and the economy is likely to create greater pressures on us and our suppliers to accurately project overall component demand and to establish optimal component levels. if shortages or delays persist, the price of these components may increase, or the components may not be available at all. we may not be able to secure enough components at 20 table of contents reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build new products in a timely manner and our revenues and gross margins could suffer until other sources can be developed. for example, throughout the first quarter of 2006 we experienced component shortages that resulted in delays of shipments of product until late in the quarter and in an increase in our day sales outstanding. we currently purchase numerous key components, including asics, from single or limited sources. the development of alternate sources for those components is time consuming, difficult and costly. in addition, the lead times associated with certain components are lengthy and preclude rapid changes in quantities and delivery schedules. in the event of a component shortage or supply interruption from these suppliers, we may not be able to develop alternate or second sources in a timely manner. if, as a result, we are unable to buy these components in quantities sufficient to meet our requirements on a timely basis, we will not be able to deliver product to our customers, which would seriously impact present and future sales, which would, in turn, adversely affect our business. in addition, the development, licensing or acquisition of new products in the future may increase the complexity of supply chain management. failure to effectively manage the supply of key components and products would adversely affect our business. we are dependent on contract manufacturers with whom we do not have long-term supply contracts, and changes to those relationships, expected or unexpected, may result in delays or disruptions that could cause us to lose revenue and damage our customer relationships. we depend primarily on independent contract manufacturers (each of whom is a third party manufacturer for numerous companies) to manufacture our products. although we have contracts with our contract manufacturers, those contracts do not require them to manufacture our products on a long-term basis in any specific quantity or at any specific price. in addition, it is time consuming and costly to qualify and implement additional contract manufacturer relationships. therefore, if we should fail to effectively manage our contract manufacturer relationships or if one or more of them should experience delays, disruptions or quality control problems in our manufacturing operations, or if we had to change or add additional contract manufacturers or contract manufacturing sites, our ability to ship products to our customers could be delayed. also, the addition of manufacturing locations or contract manufacturers would increase the complexity of our supply chain management. moreover, an increasing portion of our manufacturing is performed in china and other countries and is therefore subject to risks associated with doing business in other countries. each of these factors could adversely affect our business and financial results. integration of past acquisitions and future acquisitions could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition and stock price and may dilute the ownership of our stockholders. we have made, and may continue to make, acquisitions in order to enhance our business. in 2005 we completed the acquisitions of funk, acorn, peribit, redline and kagoor. acquisitions involve numerous risks, including problems combining the purchased operations, technologies or products, unanticipated costs, diversion of management attention from our core businesses, adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers, risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience and potential loss of key employees. there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully integrate any businesses, products, technologies or personnel that we might acquire. the integration of businesses that we have acquired has been, and will continue to be, a complex, time consuming and expensive process. for example, although we completed the acquisition of netscreen in april 2004, integration of the netscreen products is a continuing activity and will be for the foreseeable future. acquisitions may also require us to issue common stock that dilutes the ownership of our current stockholders, assume liabilities, record goodwill and non-amortizable intangible assets that will be subject to impairment testing on a regular basis and potential periodic impairment charges, incur amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets, and incur large and immediate write-offs and restructuring and other related expenses, all of which could harm our operating results and financial condition. in addition, if we fail in our integration efforts with respect to our acquisitions and are unable to efficiently operate as a combined organization utilizing common information and communication systems, operating procedures, financial controls and human resources practices, our business and financial condition may be adversely affected. we expect gross margin to vary over time and our recent level of product gross margin may not be sustainable. our product gross margins will vary from quarter to quarter and the recent level of gross margins may not be sustainable and may be adversely affected in the future by numerous factors, including product mix shifts, increased price competition in one or more of the markets in which we compete, increases in material or labor costs, excess product component or obsolescence charges from our contract manufacturers, increased costs due to changes in component pricing or charges incurred due to component holding periods if our forecasts do not accurately anticipate product demand, warranty related issues, or our introduction of new products or entry into new markets with different pricing and cost structures. 21 table of contents we are required to expense equity compensation given to our employees, which has reduced our reported earnings, will significantly harm our operating results in future periods and may reduce our stock price and our ability to effectively utilize equity compensation to attract and retain employees. we historically have used stock options as a significant component of our employee compensation program in order to align employees interests with the interests of our stockholders, encourage employee retention, and provide competitive compensation packages. the financial accounting standards board has adopted changes that require companies to record a charge to earnings for employee stock option grants and other equity incentives. we adopted this standard effective january 1, 2006. by causing us to record significantly increased compensation costs, such accounting changes have reduced, and will continue to reduce, our reported earnings, will significantly harm our operating results in future periods, and may require us to reduce the availability and amount of equity incentives provided to employees, which may make it more difficult for us to attract, retain and motivate key personnel. moreover, if securities analysts, institutional investors and other investors adopt financial models that include stock option expense in their primary analysis of our financial results, our stock price could decline as a result of reliance on these models with higher expense calculations. each of these results could materially and adversely affect our business. our ability to process orders and ship products is dependent in part on our business systems and upon interfaces with the systems of third parties such as our suppliers or other partners. if our systems, the systems of those third parties or the interfaces between them fail, our business processes could be impacted and our financial results could be harmed. some of our business processes depend upon our information technology systems and on interfaces with the systems of third parties. for example, our order entry system feeds information into the systems of our contract manufacturers, which enables them to build and ship our products. if those systems fail, our processes may function at a diminished level or not at all. this could negatively impact our ability to ship products or otherwise operate our business, and our financial results could be harmed. for example, although it did not adversely affect our shipments, an earthquake in late december of 2006 disrupted communications with china, where a significant part of our manufacturing occurs. our products are highly technical and if they contain undetected errors, our business could be adversely affected and we might have to defend lawsuits or pay damages in connection with any alleged or actual failure of our products and services. our products are highly technical and complex, are critical to the operation of many networks and, in the case of our security products, provide and monitor network security and may protect valuable information. our products have contained and may contain one or more undetected errors, defects or security vulnerabilities. some errors in our products may only be discovered after a product has been installed and used by end customers. any errors or security vulnerabilities discovered in our products after commercial release could result in loss of revenues or delay in revenue recognition, loss of customers and increased service and warranty cost, any of which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. in addition, we could face claims for product liability, tort or breach of warranty. defending a lawsuit, regardless of its merit, is costly and may divert management attention. in addition, if our business liability insurance coverage is inadequate or future coverage is unavailable on acceptable terms or at all, our financial condition could be harmed. a breach of network security could harm public perception of our security products, which could cause us to lose revenues. if an actual or perceived breach of network security occurs in the network of a customer of our security products, regardless of whether the breach is attributable to our products, the market perception of the effectiveness of our products could be harmed. this could cause us to lose current and potential end customers or cause us to lose current and potential value-added resellers and distributors. because the techniques used by computer hackers to access or sabotage networks change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques. if our products do not interoperate with our customers networks, installations will be delayed or cancelled and could harm our business. our products are designed to interface with our customers existing networks, each of which have different specifications and utilize multiple protocol standards and products from other vendors. many of our customers networks contain multiple generations of products that have been added over time as these networks have grown and evolved. our products will be required to interoperate with many or all of the products within these networks as well as future products in order to meet our customers requirements. if we find errors in the existing software or defects in the hardware used in our customers networks, we may have to modify our software or hardware to fix or overcome these errors so that our products will interoperate and scale with the existing software and hardware, which could be costly and negatively impact our operating results. in addition, if our products do not interoperate with those of our 22 table of contents customers networks, demand for our products could be adversely affected, orders for our products could be cancelled or our products could be returned. this could hurt our operating results, damage our reputation and seriously harm our business and prospects. due to the global nature of our operations, economic or social conditions or changes in a particular country or region could adversely affect our sales or increase our costs and expenses, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition. we conduct significant sales and customer support operations directly and indirectly through our distributors and value-added resellers in countries throughout the world and also depend on the operations of our contract manufacturers and suppliers that are located inside and outside of the united states. accordingly, our future results could be materially adversely affected by a variety of uncontrollable and changing factors including, among others, political or social unrest, natural disasters, epidemic disease, war, or economic instability in a specific country or region, trade protection measures and other regulatory requirements which may affect our ability to import or export our products from various countries, service provider and government spending patterns affected by political considerations and difficulties in staffing and managing international operations. any or all of these factors could have a material adverse impact on our revenue, costs, expenses, results of operations and financial condition. we are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates which could negatively affect our financial results and cash flows. because a majority of our business is conducted outside the united states, we face exposure to adverse movements in non-us currency exchange rates. these exposures may change over time as business practices evolve and could have a material adverse impact on our financial results and cash flows. the majority of our revenues and expenses are transacted in us dollars. we also have some transactions that are denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the japanese yen, hong kong dollar, british pound and the euro, related to our sales and service operations outside of the united states. an increase in the value of the us dollar could increase the real cost to our customers of our products in those markets outside the united states where we sell in us dollars, and a weakened dollar could increase the cost of local operating expenses and procurement of raw materials to the extent we must purchase components in foreign currencies. currently, we hedge only those currency exposures associated with certain assets and liabilities denominated in nonfunctional currencies and periodically will hedge anticipated foreign currency cash flows. the hedging activities undertaken by us are intended to offset the impact of currency fluctuations on certain nonfunctional currency assets and liabilities. if our attempts to hedge against these risks are not successful, our net income could be adversely impacted. our products incorporate and rely upon licensed third-party technology and if licenses of third-party technology do not continue to be available to us or become very expensive, our revenues and ability to develop and introduce new products could be adversely affected. we integrate licensed third-party technology into certain of our products. from time to time, we may be required to license additional technology from third parties to develop new products or product enhancements. third-party licenses may not be available or continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms. our inability to maintain or re-license any third-party licenses required in our products or our inability to obtain third-party licenses necessary to develop new products and product enhancements, could require us to obtain substitute technology of lower quality or performance standards or at a greater cost, any of which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. our success depends upon our ability to effectively plan and manage our resources and restructure our business through rapidly fluctuating economic and market conditions. our ability to successfully offer our products and services in a rapidly evolving market requires an effective planning, forecasting, and management process to enable us to effectively scale our business and adjust our business in response to fluctuating market opportunities and conditions. in periods of market expansion, we have increased investment in our business by, for example, increasing headcount and increasing our investment in research and development and other parts of our business. conversely, during 2001 and 2002, in response to downward trending industry and market conditions, we restructured our business and reduced our workforce. many of our expenses, such as real estate expenses, can not be rapidly or easily adjusted as a result of fluctuations in our business or numbers of employees. moreover, rapid changes in the size of our workforce could adversely affect the ability to develop and deliver products and services as planned or impair our ability to realize our current or future business objectives. 23 table of contents we are subject to risks arising from our international operations. we derive a majority of our revenues from our international operations, and we plan to continue expanding our business in international markets in the future. as a result of our international operations, we are affected by economic, regulatory and political conditions in foreign countries, including changes in it spending generally, the imposition of government controls, changes or limitations in trade protection laws, unfavorable changes in tax treaties or laws, natural disasters, labor unrest, earnings expatriation restrictions, misappropriation of intellectual property, acts of terrorism and continued unrest in many regions and other factors, which could have a material impact on our international revenues and operations. in particular, in some countries we may experience reduced intellectual property protection. moreover, local laws and customs in many countries differ significantly from those in the united states. in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common for others to engage in business practices that are prohibited by our internal policies and procedures or united states regulations applicable to us. although we implement policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws and policies, there can be no assurance that all of our employees, contractors and agents will not take actions in violations of them. violations of laws or key control policies by our employees, contractors or agents could result in financial reporting problems, fines, penalties, or prohibition on the importation or exportation of our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business. while we believe that we currently have adequate internal control over financial reporting, we are exposed to risks from legislation requiring companies to evaluate those internal controls. section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 requires our management to report on, and our independent auditors to attest to, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. we have an ongoing program to perform the system and process evaluation and testing necessary to comply with these requirements. we have and will continue to incur significant expenses and devote management resources to section 404 compliance on an ongoing basis. in the event that our chief executive officer, chief financial officer or independent registered public accounting firm determine in the future that our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective as defined under section 404, investor perceptions may be adversely affected and could cause a decline in the market price of our stock. governmental regulations affecting the import or export of products could negatively affect our revenues. the united states and various foreign governments have imposed controls, export license requirements and restrictions on the import or export of some technologies, especially encryption technology. in addition, from time to time, governmental agencies have proposed additional regulation of encryption technology, such as requiring the escrow and governmental recovery of private encryption keys. governmental regulation of encryption technology and regulation of imports or exports, or our failure to obtain required import or export approval for our products, could harm our international and domestic sales and adversely affect our revenues. regulation of the telecommunications industry could harm our operating results and future prospects. the telecommunications industry is highly regulated and our business and financial condition could be adversely affected by the changes in the regulations relating to the telecommunications industry. currently, there are few laws or regulations that apply directly to access to or commerce on ip networks. we could be adversely affected by regulation of ip networks and commerce in any country where we operate. such regulations could address matters such as voice over the internet or using internet protocol, encryption technology, and access charges for service providers. in addition, regulations have been adopted with respect to environmental matters, such as the waste electrical and electronic equipment (weee) and restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment (rohs) regulations adopted by the european union, as well as regulations prohibiting government entities from purchasing security products that do not meet specified local certification criteria. compliance with such regulations may be costly and time-consuming for us and our suppliers and partners. the adoption and implementation of such regulations could decrease demand for our products, and at the same time could increase the cost of building and selling our products as well as impact our ability to ship products into affected areas and recognize revenue in a timely manner, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. changes in effective tax rates or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income or other tax returns could adversely affect our results. our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated earnings in countries where we have higher statutory rates, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws or interpretations thereof. in addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the internal revenue service and other tax authorities. we regularly assess 24 table of contents the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. there can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk 56 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk interest rate risk we maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types and maturities. these securities are generally classified as available-for-sale and, consequently, are recorded on the consolidated balance sheet at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). at any time, a rise in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our investment portfolio. conversely, declines in interest rates could have a material impact on interest earnings of our investment portfolio. we do not currently hedge these interest rate exposures. the following table presents hypothetical changes in fair value of the financial instruments held at december 31, 2006 that are sensitive to changes in interest rates (in millions): valuation of securities given an interest valuation of securities given an interest rate decrease of x basis points (bps) fair value as of rate increase of x bps (150 bps) (100 bps) (50 bps) december 31, 2006 50 bps 100 bps 150 bps government treasury and agencies $ 297.5 $ 296.0 $ 294.5 $ 293.0 $ 291.6 $ 290.1 $ 288.6 corporate bonds and notes 520.4 517.7 515.0 512.3 509.6 506.8 504.1 asset backed securities and other 333.9 333.4 332.9 332.4 331.9 331.4 331.0 total $ 1,151.8 $ 1,147.1 $ 1,142.4 $ 1,137.7 $ 1,133.1 $ 1,128.3 $ 1,123.7 56 table of contents the following table presents hypothetical changes in fair value of the financial instruments held at december 31, 2005 that are sensitive to changes in interest rates (in millions): valuation of securities given an interest valuation of securities given an interest rate decrease of x basis points (bps) fair value as of rate increase of x bps (150 bps) (100 bps) (50 bps) december 31, 2005 50 bps 100 bps 150 bps government treasury and agencies $ 304.7 $ 302.9 $ 301.1 $ 299.3 $ 297.6 $ 295.8 $ 294.0 corporate bonds and notes 646.4 643.2 640.2 637.1 633.9 630.8 627.7 asset backed securities and other 372.8 372.2 371.5 370.9 370.2 369.6 368.9 total $ 1,323.9 $ 1,318.3 $ 1,312.8 $ 1,307.3 $ 1,301.7 $ 1,296.2 $ 1,290.6 these instruments are not leveraged and are held for purposes other than trading. the modeling technique used measures the changes in fair value arising from selected potential changes in interest rates. market changes reflect immediate hypothetical parallel shifts in the yield curve of plus or minus 50 basis points (bps), 100 bps and 150 bps, which are representative of the historical movements in the federal funds rate. foreign currency risk and foreign exchange forward contracts it is our policy to use derivatives to partially offset our market exposure to fluctuations in foreign currencies. we do not enter into derivatives for speculative or trading purposes. we use foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate transaction gains and losses generated by certain foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities. these derivatives are carried at fair value with changes recorded in other income (expense). changes in the fair value of these derivatives are largely offset by re-measurement of the underlying assets and liabilities. these foreign exchange contracts have maturities between one and two months. periodically, we use foreign currency forward and/or option contracts to hedge certain forecasted foreign currency transactions relating to operating expenses. these derivatives are designated as cash flow hedges and have maturities of less than one year. the effective portion of the derivative gain or loss is initially reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income, and upon occurrence of the forecasted transaction, is subsequently reclassified into the consolidated statements of operations line item to which the hedged transaction relates. we record any ineffectiveness of the hedging instruments, which was immaterial during the years ended december 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, in other income (expense) in our results of operations. 57 table of contentsrisk factors 15 risk factors factors that may affect future results investments in equity securities of publicly-traded companies involve significant risks. the market price of our stock has historically reflected a higher multiple of expected future earnings than many other companies. accordingly, even small changes in investor expectations for our future growth and earnings, whether as a result of actual or rumored financial or operating results, changes in the mix of the products and services sold, acquisitions, industry changes or other factors, could trigger, and have triggered, significant fluctuations in the market price of our common stock. investors in our securities should carefully consider all of the relevant factors, including, but not limited to, the following factors, that could affect our stock price. our quarterly results are inherently unpredictable and subject to substantial fluctuations, and, as a result, we may fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. our revenues and operating results may vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control and any of which may cause our stock price to fluctuate. the factors that may affect the unpredictability of our quarterly results include, but are not limited to: limited visibility into customer spending plans, changes in the mix of products sold, changes in geographies in which our products are sold, changing market conditions, including current and potential customer consolidation, competition, customer concentration, long sales and implementation cycles, regional economic and political conditions, and seasonality. for example, many companies in our industry experience adverse seasonal fluctuations in customer spending patterns, particularly in the first and third quarters. as a result, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of operating results are not necessarily a good indication of what our future performance will be. it is likely that in some future quarters, our operating results may be below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, in which case the price of our common stock may decline. such a decline could occur, and has occurred in the past, even when we have met our publicly stated revenues and/or earnings guidance. fluctuating economic conditions make it difficult to predict revenues for a particular period and a shortfall in revenues or increase in costs of production may harm our operating results. our revenues depend significantly on general economic conditions and the demand for products in the markets in which we compete. economic weakness, customer financial difficulties, and constrained spending on network 15 table of contents expansion have recently resulted, and may in the future result, in decreased revenues and earnings and could negatively impact our ability to forecast and manage our contract manufacturer relationships. in addition, recent turmoil in the global financial markets and associated economic weakness, or recession, particularly in the united states and europe, as well as turmoil in the geopolitical environment in many parts of the world, may continue to put pressure on global economic conditions, which could lead to continued reduced demand for our products and/or higher costs of production. the current economic weakness may also lead to longer collection cycles for payments due from our customers, an increase in customer bad debt, restructuring initiatives and associated expenses, and impairment of investments. furthermore, the recent disruption in worldwide credit markets may adversely impact the ability of our customers to adequately fund their expected capital expenditures, which could lead to delays or cancellations of planned purchases of our products or services. in addition, our operating expenses are largely based on anticipated revenue trends and a high percentage of our expenses is, and will continue to be, fixed in the short-term. uncertainty about future economic conditions makes it difficult to forecast operating results and to make decisions about future investments. future or continued economic weakness, customer financial difficulties, increases in costs of production, and reductions in spending on network maintenance and expansion could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and consequently on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. a limited number of our customers comprise a significant portion of our revenues and any decrease in revenues from these customers could have an adverse effect on our net revenues and operating results. a substantial majority of our net revenues depend on sales to a limited number of customers and distribution partners. for example, at t, inc., accounted for greater than 10% of our net revenues in fiscal year 2009. this customer concentration increases the risk of quarterly fluctuations in our revenues and operating results. changes in the business requirements, vendor selection, or purchasing behavior of our key customers or potential new customers could significantly decrease sales to such customers. in addition, the recession impact on worldwide credit markets may adversely impact the ability of our customers to adequately fund their expected capital expenditures, which could lead to delays or cancellations of planned purchases of our products or services. any of these factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition, in recent years, there has been consolidation in the telecommunications industry (for example, the acquisitions of at t, inc., mci, inc., and bellsouth corporation) and consolidation among the large vendors of telecommunications equipment and services (for example, the acquisition of redback by ericsson, the joint venture of nsn, and the acquisition of foundry networks by brocade). such consolidation may cause our customers who are involved in these transactions to suspend or indefinitely reduce their purchases of our products or have other unforeseen consequences that could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. if we receive infrastructure product orders late in a quarter, we may be unable to recognize revenue for these orders in the same period, which could adversely affect our quarterly revenues. generally, our infrastructure products are not stocked by distributors or resellers due to their cost and complexity and configurations required by our customers, and we generally build such products as orders are received. if orders for these products are received late in any quarter, we may not be able to build, ship, and recognize revenue for these orders in the same period, which could adversely affect our ability to meet our expected revenues for such quarter. we face intense competition that could reduce our revenues and adversely affect our financial results. competition is intense in the markets that we address. the infrastructure market has historically been dominated by cisco with other companies such as alcatel-lucent, brocade, ericsson, extreme networks, hewlett-packard company, and huawei providing products to a smaller segment of the market. in addition, a number of other small public and private companies have products or have announced plans for new products to address the same challenges and markets that our products address. in the slt market, we face intense competition from a broader group of companies such as checkpoint, cisco, fortinet, f5 networks, and riverbed. in addition, a number of other small public and private companies have 16 table of contents products or have announced plans for new products to address the same challenges and markets that our products address. in addition, actual or speculated consolidation among competitors, or the acquisition of our partners and/or resellers by competitors, can increase the competitive pressures faced by us. in this regard, ericsson acquired redback in 2007 and brocade acquired foundry networks in 2009. a number of our competitors have substantially greater resources and can offer a wider range of products and services for the overall network equipment market than we do. if we are unable to compete successfully against existing and future competitors on the basis of product offerings or price, we could experience a loss in market share and revenues and/or be required to reduce prices, which could reduce our gross margins, and which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we rely on value-added resellers, distribution, and original equipment manufacturer partners to sell our products, and disruptions to, or our failure to effectively develop and manage our distribution channel and the processes and procedures that support it could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues from the sale of our products. our future success is highly dependent upon establishing and maintaining successful relationships with a variety of value-added reseller and distribution partners, including our worldwide strategic partners such as ericsson, ibm, and nsn. the majority of our revenues are derived through value-added resellers and distributors, most of which also sell competitors products. our revenues depend in part on the performance of these partners. the loss of or reduction in sales to our value-added resellers or distributors could materially reduce our revenues. for example, in 2006, one of our largest resellers, lucent, merged with alcatel, a competitor of ours. as a result of becoming a competitor, their resales of our products declined subsequent to the merger, and we ultimately terminated our reseller agreement. our competitors may in some cases be effective in providing incentives to current or potential resellers and distributors to favor their products or to prevent or reduce sales of our products. if we fail to maintain and develop relationships with our partners, fail to develop new relationships with value-added resellers and distributors in new markets, or expand the number of distributors and resellers in existing markets, fail to manage, train or motivate existing value-added resellers and distributors effectively, or if these partners are not successful in their sales efforts, sales of our products may decrease, and our business, financial condition, and results of operations would suffer. in addition, we recognize a portion of our revenues based on a sell-through model using information provided by our distributors. if those distributors provide us with inaccurate or untimely information, the amount or timing of our revenues could be adversely impacted. further, in order to develop and expand our distribution channel, we must continue to scale and improve our processes and procedures that support it, and those processes and procedures may become increasingly complex and inherently difficult to manage. for example, we recently entered into an agreement to form a joint venture with nsn to develop and resell joint carrier ethernet solutions and entered into oem agreements with dell and ibm where they will rebrand and resell our products as part of their product portfolios. these relationships are complex and require additional processes and procedures that may be challenging and costly to implement, maintain and manage. our failure to successfully manage and develop our distribution channel and the processes and procedures that support it could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues from the sale of our products. our ability to process orders and ship products in a timely manner is dependent in part on our business systems and performance of the systems and processes of third parties such as our contract manufacturers, suppliers, or other partners, as well as interfaces with the systems of such third parties. if our systems, the systems and processes of those third parties, or the interfaces between them experience delays or fail, our business processes and our ability to build and ship products could be impacted, and our financial results could be harmed. some of our business processes depend upon our information technology systems, the systems and processes of third parties, and on interfaces with the systems of third parties. for example, our order entry system feeds information into the systems of our contract manufacturers, which enable them to build and ship our products. if 17 table of contents those systems fail or are interrupted, our processes may function at a diminished level or not at all. this could negatively impact our ability to ship products or otherwise operate our business, and our financial results could be harmed. for example, although it did not adversely affect our shipments, an earthquake in late december of 2006 disrupted communications with china, where a significant part of our manufacturing occurs. we also rely upon the performance of the systems and processes of our contract manufacturers to build and ship our products. if those systems and processes experience interruption or delay, our ability to build and ship our products in a timely manner may be harmed. for example, as we have expanded our contract manufacturing base to china, we have experienced instances where our contract manufacturer was not able to ship products in the time periods expected by us. if we are not able to ship our products or if product shipments are delayed, our ability to recognize revenue in a timely manner for those products would be affected and our financial results could be harmed. we are currently implementing upgrades to key internal systems and processes, and problems with the design or implementation of these systems and processes could interfere with our business and operations. in 2007, we initiated a multi-year project to upgrade certain key internal systems and processes, including our company-wide human resources management system, our customer relationship management ( crm ) system and enterprise resource planning ( erp ) system. we have invested, and will continue to invest, significant capital and human resources in the design and implementation of these systems and processes, which may be disruptive to our underlying business. any disruptions or delays in the design and implementation of the new systems or processes, particularly any disruptions or delays that impact our operations, could adversely affect our ability to process customer orders, ship products, provide service and support to our customers, bill and track our customers, fulfill contractual obligations, record and transfer information in a timely and accurate manner, file sec reports in a timely manner, or otherwise run our business. even if we do not encounter these adverse effects, the design and implementation of these new systems and processes may be much more costly than we anticipated. if we are unable to successfully design and implement these new systems and processes as planned, or if the implementation of these systems and processes is more costly than anticipated, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be negatively impacted. telecommunications companies and other large companies generally require more onerous terms and conditions of their vendors. as we seek to sell more products to such customers, we may be required to agree to terms and conditions that may have an adverse effect on our business or ability to recognize revenues. telecommunications service provider companies and other large companies, because of their size, generally have greater purchasing power and, accordingly, have requested and received more favorable terms, which often translate into more onerous terms and conditions for their vendors. as we seek to sell more products to this class of customer, we may be required to agree to such terms and conditions, which may include terms that affect the timing of our ability to recognize revenue and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. consolidation among such large customers can further increase their buying power and ability to require onerous terms. for example, many customers in this class have purchased products from other vendors who promised but failed to deliver certain functionality and/or had products that caused problems or outages in the networks of these customers. as a result, this class of customers may request additional features from us and require substantial penalties for failure to deliver such features or may require substantial penalties for any network outages that may be caused by our products. these additional requests and penalties, if we are required to agree to them, may require us to defer revenue recognition from such sales, which may negatively affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. for arrangements with multiple elements, our accounting policies require vendor-specific objective evidence ( vsoe ) of fair value of the undelivered to separate the components and to account for elements of the arrangement separately. vsoe of fair value is based on the price charged when the element is sold separately. however, customers may require terms and conditions that make it more difficult or impossible for us to maintain vsoe of fair value for the undelivered elements to a similar group of customers, the result of which could cause us 18 table of contents to defer the entire arrangement fees for a similar group of customers (product, maintenance, professional services, etc.) and recognize revenue only when the last element is delivered, or if the only undelivered element is maintenance revenue, we would recognize revenue ratably over the contractual maintenance period, which is generally one year, but could be substantially longer. we expect gross margin to vary over time, and our recent level of product gross margin may not be sustainable. our product gross margins will vary from quarter-to-quarter, and the recent level of gross margins may not be sustainable and may be adversely affected in the future by numerous factors, including product mix shifts, increased price competition in one or more of the markets in which we compete, increases in material or labor costs, excess product component or obsolescence charges from our contract manufacturers, increased costs due to changes in component pricing or charges incurred due to component holding periods if our forecasts do not accurately anticipate product demand, warranty related issues, or our introduction of new products or entry into new markets with different pricing and cost structures. if we do not successfully anticipate market needs and opportunities, and develop products and product enhancements that meet those needs and opportunities, or if those products are not made available in a timely manner or do not gain market acceptance, we may not be able to compete effectively and our ability to generate revenues will suffer. we cannot guarantee that we will be able to anticipate future market needs and opportunities or be able to develop new products or product enhancements to meet such needs or opportunities in a timely manner or at all. if we fail to anticipate market requirements or fail to develop and introduce new products or product enhancements to meet those needs in a timely manner, such failure could substantially decrease or delay market acceptance and sales of our present and future products, which would significantly harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. even if we are able to anticipate, develop, and commercially introduce new products and enhancements, there can be no assurance that new products or enhancements will achieve widespread market acceptance. for example, in 2008, we announced new products designed to address the ethernet switching market, a market in which we had not had a historical presence. in addition, in 2009 we announced plans to develop and introduce new data center products with our project stratus and mobility solutions with our project falcon. if these or other new products do not gain market acceptance at a sufficient rate of growth, our ability to meet future financial targets and aspirations may be adversely affected. in addition, if we fail to deliver new or announced products to the market in a timely manner, it could adversely affect the market acceptance of those products and harm our competitive position and business and financial results. changes in effective tax rates or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income or other tax returns could adversely affect our results. our future effective tax rates could be subject to volatility or adversely affected by: earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated earnings in countries where we have higher statutory rates; by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; by expiration of or lapses in the r d tax credit laws; by transfer pricing adjustments related to certain acquisitions including the license of acquired intangibles under our intercompany r d cost sharing arrangement; by tax effects of stock-based compensation; by costs related to intercompany restructurings; or by changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles, or interpretations thereof. in addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the internal revenue service ( irs ) and other tax authorities. we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. there can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. for example, in 2009, we received a proposed adjustment from the irs claiming that we owe additional taxes, plus interest and possible penalties, for the 2004 tax year based on a transfer pricing transaction related to the license of acquired intangibles under an intercompany r d cost sharing arrangement. as a result of the proposed 19 table of contents adjustment, the incremental tax liability would be approximately $807.0 million excluding interest and penalties. we strongly believe the irs position with regard to this matter is inconsistent with applicable tax laws and existing treasury regulations, and that our previously reported income tax provision for the year in question is appropriate. however, there can be no assurance that this matter will be resolved in our favor. regardless of whether this matter is resolved in our favor, the final resolution of this matter could be expensive and time-consuming to defend and/or settle. while we believe we have provided adequately for this matter, there is still a possibility that an adverse outcome of the matter could have a material effect on our results of operations and financial condition. governmental regulations affecting the import or export of products could negatively affect our revenues. the united states and various foreign governments have imposed controls, export license requirements, and restrictions on the import or export of some technologies, especially encryption technology. in addition, from time to time, governmental agencies have proposed additional regulation of encryption technology, such as requiring the escrow and governmental recovery of private encryption keys. governmental regulation of encryption technology and regulation of imports or exports, or our failure to obtain required import or export approval for our products, could harm our international and domestic sales and adversely affect our revenues. in addition, failure to comply with such regulations could result in penalties, costs, and restrictions on export privileges. if we fail to accurately predict our manufacturing requirements, we could incur additional costs or experience manufacturing delays, which would harm our business. we provide demand forecasts to our contract manufacturers. if we overestimate our requirements, our contract manufacturers may assess charges, or we may have liabilities for excess inventory, each of which could negatively affect our gross margins. conversely, because lead times for required materials and components vary significantly and depend on factors such as the specific supplier, contract terms, and the demand for each component at a given time, if we underestimate our requirements, our contract manufacturers may have inadequate time, materials, and/or components required to produce our products, which could increase costs or could delay or interrupt manufacturing of our products and result in delays in shipments and deferral or loss of revenues. we are dependent on sole source and limited source suppliers for several key components, which makes us susceptible to shortages or price fluctuations in our supply chain, and we may face increased challenges in supply chain management in the future. during periods of high demand for electronic products, component shortages are possible, and the predictability of the availability of such components may be limited. any future growth in our business and the economy is likely to create greater pressures on us and our suppliers to accurately project overall component demand and to establish optimal component levels. if shortages or delays persist, the price of these components may increase, or the components may not be available at all. we may not be able to secure enough components at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build new products in a timely manner, and our revenues and gross margins could suffer until other sources can be developed. for example, from time to time, including the first quarter of 2008, we have experienced component shortages that resulted in delays of product shipments. we currently purchase numerous key components, including asics, from single or limited sources. the development of alternate sources for those components is time-consuming, difficult, and costly. in addition, the lead times associated with certain components are lengthy and preclude rapid changes in quantities and delivery schedules. in the event of a component shortage or supply interruption from these suppliers, we may not be able to develop alternate or second sources in a timely manner. if, as a result, we are unable to buy these components in quantities sufficient to meet our requirements on a timely basis, we will not be able to deliver product to our customers, which would seriously affect present and future sales, which would, in turn, adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition, the development, licensing, or acquisition of new products in the future may increase the complexity of supply chain management. failure to effectively manage the supply of key components and products would adversely affect our business. 20 table of contents we are dependent on contract manufacturers with whom we do not have long-term supply contracts, and changes to those relationships, expected or unexpected, may result in delays or disruptions that could cause us to lose revenues and damage our customer relationships. we depend on independent contract manufacturers (each of which is a third-party manufacturer for numerous companies) to manufacture our products. although we have contracts with our contract manufacturers, those contracts do not require them to manufacture our products on a long-term basis in any specific quantity or at any specific price. in addition, it is time-consuming and costly to qualify and implement additional contract manufacturer relationships. therefore, if we should fail to effectively manage our contract manufacturer relationships or if one or more of them should experience delays, disruptions, or quality control problems in our manufacturing operations, or if we had to change or add additional contract manufacturers or contract manufacturing sites, our ability to ship products to our customers could be delayed. also, the addition of manufacturing locations or contract manufacturers would increase the complexity of our supply chain management. moreover, an increasing portion of our manufacturing is performed in china and other countries and is therefore subject to risks associated with doing business in other countries. each of these factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we are a party to lawsuits, which are costly to defend and, if determined adversely to us, could require us to pay damages or prevent us from taking certain actions, any or all of which could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we and certain of our current and former officers and current and former members of our board of directors are subject to various lawsuits. for example, we are a party to a number of patent infringement and other lawsuits. in addition, we have been served with lawsuits related to the alleged backdating of stock options and other related matters, a description of which can be found in note 13, commitments and contingencies , in notes to consolidated financial statements in item 8 of part ii of this annual report on form 10-k, under the heading legal proceedings. there can be no assurance that these or any actions that have been or may be brought against us will be resolved in our favor or that tentative settlements will become final. regardless of whether they are resolved in our favor, these lawsuits are, and any future lawsuits to which we may become a party will likely be, expensive and time-consuming to defend, settle, and/or resolve. such costs of defense, as well as any losses resulting from these claims or settlement of these claims, could significantly increase our expenses and could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. litigation or claims regarding intellectual property rights may be time-consuming, expensive and require a significant amount of resources to prosecute, defend, or make our products non-infringing. third parties have asserted and may in the future assert claims or initiate litigation related to patent, copyright, trademark, and other intellectual property rights to technologies and related standards that are relevant to our products. the asserted claims and/or initiated litigation may include claims against us or our manufacturers, suppliers, or customers, alleging infringement of their proprietary rights with respect to our products. regardless of the merit of these claims, they have been and can be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, and may require us to develop non-infringing technologies or enter into license agreements. furthermore, because of the potential for high awards of damages or injunctive relief that are not necessarily predictable, even arguably unmeritorious claims may be settled for significant amounts of money. if any infringement or other intellectual property claim made against us by any third party is successful, if we are required to settle litigation for significant amounts of money, or if we fail to develop non-infringing technology or license required proprietary rights on commercially reasonable terms and conditions, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. our success depends upon our ability to effectively plan and manage our resources and restructure our business through rapidly fluctuating economic and market conditions. our ability to successfully offer our products and services in a rapidly evolving market requires an effective planning, forecasting, and management process to enable us to effectively scale our business and adjust our business in response to fluctuating market opportunities and conditions. in periods of market expansion, we have increased 21 table of contents investment in our business by, for example, increasing headcount and increasing our investment in r d and other parts of our business. conversely, during 2009, in response to downward trending industry and market conditions, we restructured our business, rebalanced our workforce, and reduced our real estate portfolio. many of our expenses, such as real estate expenses, cannot be rapidly or easily adjusted because of fluctuations in our business or numbers of employees. moreover, rapid changes in the size of our workforce could adversely affect the ability to develop and deliver products and services as planned or impair our ability to realize our current or future business objectives. the long sales and implementation cycles for our products, as well as our expectation that some customers will sporadically place large orders with short lead times, may cause our revenues and operating results to vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter. a customer decision to purchase certain of our products involves a significant commitment of its resources and a lengthy evaluation and product qualification process. as a result, the sales cycle may be lengthy. in particular, customers making critical decisions regarding the design and implementation of large network deployments may engage in very lengthy procurement processes that may delay or impact expected future orders. throughout the sales cycle, we may spend considerable time educating and providing information to prospective customers regarding the use and benefits of our products. even after making the decision to purchase, customers may deploy our products slowly and deliberately. timing of deployment can vary widely and depends on the skill set of the customer, the size of the network deployment, the complexity of the customer network environment, and the degree of hardware and operating system configuration necessary to deploy the products. customers with large networks usually expand their networks in large increments on a periodic basis. accordingly, we may receive purchase orders for significant dollar amounts on an irregular basis. these long cycles, as well as our expectation that customers will tend to sporadically place large orders with short lead times, may cause revenues and operating results to vary significantly and unexpectedly from quarter-to-quarter. we sell our products to customers that use those products to build networks and ip infrastructure, and if the demand for network and ip systems does not continue to grow, then our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. a substantial portion of our business and revenues depends on the growth of secure ip infrastructure and on the deployment of our products by customers that depend on the continued growth of ip services. as a result of changes in the economy and capital spending or the building of network capacity in excess of demand, all of which have in the past particularly affected telecommunications service providers, spending on ip infrastructure can vary, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition, a number of our existing customers are evaluating the build out of their next generation networks. during the decision-making period when the customers are determining the design of those networks and the selection of the equipment they will use in those networks, such customers may greatly reduce or suspend their spending on secure ip infrastructure. such pauses in purchases can make it more difficult to predict revenues from such customers, can cause fluctuations in the level of spending by these customers and, even where our products are ultimately selected, can have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. a breach of network security could harm public perception of our security products, which could cause us to lose revenues. if an actual or perceived breach of network security occurs in our network or in the network of a customer of our security products, regardless of whether the breach is attributable to our products, the market perception of the effectiveness of our products could be harmed. this could cause us to lose current and potential end-customers or cause us to lose current and potential value-added resellers and distributors. because the techniques used by computer hackers to access or sabotage networks change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques. 22 table of contents we are subject to risks arising from our international operations. we derive a majority of our revenues from our international operations, and we plan to continue expanding our business in international markets in the future. we conduct significant sales and customer support operations directly and indirectly through our distributors and value-added resellers in countries throughout the world and depend on the operations of our contract manufacturers and suppliers that are located inside and outside of the united states. in addition, our r d and our general and administrative ( g a ) operations are conducted in the united states as well as other countries. as a result of our international operations, we are affected by economic, regulatory, social, and political conditions in foreign countries, including changes in general it spending, the imposition of government controls, changes or limitations in trade protection laws, other regulatory requirements, which may affect our ability to import or export our products from various countries, service provider and government spending patterns affected by political considerations, unfavorable changes in tax treaties or laws, natural disasters, epidemic disease, labor unrest, earnings expatriation restrictions, misappropriation of intellectual property, military actions, acts of terrorism, political or social unrest, and difficulties in staffing and managing international operations. in particular, in some countries, we may experience reduced intellectual property protection. any or all of these factors could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. moreover, local laws and customs in many countries differ significantly from those in the united states. in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common for others to engage in business practices that are prohibited by our internal policies and procedures or united states regulations applicable to us. although we implement policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws and policies, there can be no assurance that none of our employees, contractors, and agents will take actions in violation of them. violations of laws or key control policies by our employees, contractors, or agents could result in financial reporting problems, fines, penalties, or prohibition on the importation or exportation of our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business. we are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. because a majority of our business is conducted outside the united states, we face exposure to adverse movements in non-u.s. currency exchange rates. these exposures may change over time as business practices evolve and could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. the majority of our revenues and expenses are transacted in u.s. dollars. we also have some transactions that are denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the british pound, the euro, indian rupee, and japanese yen related to our sales and service operations outside of the united states. an increase in the value of the u.s. dollar could increase the real cost to our customers of our products in those markets outside the united states in which we sell in u.s. dollars, and a weakened u.s. dollar could increase the cost of local operating expenses and procurement of raw materials to the extent we must purchase components in foreign currencies. currently, we hedge only those currency exposures associated with certain assets and liabilities denominated in nonfunctional currencies and periodically will hedge anticipated foreign currency cash flows. the hedging activities undertaken by us are intended to offset the impact of currency fluctuations on certain nonfunctional currency assets and liabilities. however, no amount of hedging can be effective against all circumstances, including long-term declines in the value of the u.s. dollar. if our attempts to hedge against these risks are not successful, or if long-term declines in the value of the u.s. dollar persist, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted. if we fail to adequately evolve our financial and managerial control and reporting systems and processes, our ability to manage and grow our business will be negatively affected. our ability to successfully offer our products and implement our business plan in a rapidly evolving market depends upon an effective planning and management process. we will need to continue to improve our financial and managerial control and our reporting systems and procedures in order to manage our business effectively in the 23 table of contents future. if we fail to continue to implement improved systems and processes, our ability to manage our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be negatively affected. our ability to develop, market, and sell products could be harmed if we are unable to retain or hire key personnel. our future success depends upon our ability to recruit and retain the services of executive, engineering, sales and marketing, and support personnel. the supply of highly qualified individuals, in particular engineers in very specialized technical areas, or sales people specializing in the service provider and enterprise markets, is limited and competition for such individuals is intense. none of our officers or key employees is bound by an employment agreement for any specific term. the loss of the services of any of our key employees, the inability to attract or retain personnel in the future or delays in hiring required personnel, particularly engineers and sales people, and the complexity and time involved in replacing or training new employees, could delay the development and introduction of new products, and negatively impact our ability to market, sell, or support our products. in addition, we rely upon equity compensation to help recruit, retain and motivate our employees. at our 2010 annual meeting of stockholders, we plan to ask our stockholders to authorize additional shares for grant under our 2006 equity incentive plan (the 2006 plan ), which is the only plan under which we currently grant stock options, restricted stock units and performance shares to our employees. if more shares, or not enough shares, are not authorized by our stockholders for grant under the 2006 plan, we will be significantly limited in our ability to grant equity awards to recruit new employees or to compensate existing employees, which would put us at a significant disadvantage to other companies that compete for workers in high technology industries such as ours. accordingly, our ability to hire, retain, and motivate current and prospective employees would be harmed, the result of which could negatively impact our business operations. our products are highly technical and if they contain undetected errors, our business could be adversely affected, and we may need to defend lawsuits or pay damages in connection with any alleged or actual failure of our products and services. our products are highly technical and complex, are critical to the operation of many networks, and, in the case of our security products, provide and monitor network security and may protect valuable information. our products have contained and may contain one or more undetected errors, defects, or security vulnerabilities. some errors in our products may only be discovered after a product has been installed and used by end-customers. any errors, defects, or security vulnerabilities discovered in our products after commercial release could result in loss of revenues or delay in revenue recognition, loss of customers, loss of future business, and increased service and warranty cost, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition, in the event an error, defect, or vulnerability is attributable to a component supplied by a third-party vendor, we may not be able to recover from the vendor all of the costs of remediation that we may incur. in addition, we could face claims for product liability, tort, or breach of warranty. defending a lawsuit, regardless of its merit, is costly and may divert management attention. in addition, if our business liability insurance coverage is inadequate, or future coverage is unavailable on acceptable terms or at all, our financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. if our products do not interoperate with our customers networks, installations will be delayed or cancelled and could harm our business. our products are designed to interface with our customers existing networks, each of which have different specifications and utilize multiple protocol standards and products from other vendors. many of our customers networks contain multiple generations of products that have been added over time as these networks have grown and evolved. our products will be required to interoperate with many or all of the products within these networks as well as future products in order to meet our customers requirements. if we find errors in the existing software or defects in the hardware used in our customers networks, we may need to modify our software or hardware to fix or overcome these errors so that our products will interoperate and scale with the existing software and hardware, which could be costly and negatively affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition, if our products do not interoperate with those of our customers networks, demand for our products could be 24 table of contents adversely affected or orders for our products could be cancelled. this could hurt our operating results, damage our reputation, and seriously harm our business and prospects. integration of future acquisitions could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition and stock price and may dilute the ownership of our stockholders. we have made, and may continue to make, acquisitions in order to enhance our business. in 2005, we completed the acquisitions of five privately-held companies. acquisitions involve numerous risks, including problems combining the purchased operations, technologies or products, unanticipated costs, diversion of management attention from our core businesses, adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers, risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience, and potential loss of key employees. there can be no assurance that we will be able to integrate successfully any businesses, products, technologies, or personnel that we might acquire. the integration of businesses that we may acquire is likely to be, a complex, time-consuming, and expensive process. acquisitions may also require us to issue common stock that dilutes the ownership of our current stockholders, assume liabilities, record goodwill and amortizable intangible assets that will be subject to impairment testing on a regular basis and potential periodic impairment charges, incur amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets, and incur large and immediate write-offs and restructuring and other related expenses, all of which could harm our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, if we fail in any acquisition integration efforts and are unable to efficiently operate as a combined organization utilizing common information and communication systems, operating procedures, financial controls, and human resources practices, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected. our products incorporate and rely upon licensed third-party technology, and if licenses of third-party technology do not continue to be available to us or become very expensive, our revenues and ability to develop and introduce new products could be adversely affected. we integrate licensed third-party technology into certain of our products. from time to time, we may be required to license additional technology from third-parties to develop new products or product enhancements. third-party licenses may not be available or continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms. our inability to maintain or re-license any third-party licenses required in our products or our inability to obtain third-party licenses necessary to develop new products and product enhancements, could require us to obtain substitute technology of lower quality or performance standards or at a greater cost, any of which could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. matters related to the investigation into our historical stock option granting practices and the restatement of our financial statements have resulted in litigation and regulatory proceedings, and may result in additional litigation or other possible government actions. our historical stock option granting practices and the restatement of our consolidated financial statements have exposed us to risks such as litigation, regulatory proceedings, and government enforcement actions. for more information regarding our current litigation and related inquiries, please see note 13, commitments and contingencies , in notes to consolidated financial statements in item 8 of part ii of this annual report on form 10-k, under the heading legal proceedings as well as the other risk factors related to litigation set forth in this section. we have provided the results of our internal review and independent investigation to the sec and the united states attorney office for the northern district of california, and in that regard, we have responded to formal and informal requests for documents and additional information. in august 2007, we announced that we entered into a settlement agreement with the sec in connection with our historical stock option granting practices in which we consented to a permanent injunction against any future violations of the antifraud, reporting, books-and-records and internal control provisions of the federal securities laws. this settlement concluded the sec formal investigation of the company with respect to this matter. in addition, while we believe that we have made appropriate judgments in determining the correct measurement dates for our stock option grants, the sec may disagree with the manner in which we accounted for and reported, or did not report, the corresponding financial impact. we are also subject to 25 table of contents civil litigation related to the stock option matters. in february 2009, we entered into an agreement in principle to settle the class action litigations claims related to our historical stock option granting practices. under the proposed settlement, which is subject to the approval of the board of trustees of the lead plaintiffs and the court, the claims against us and our officers and directors will be dismissed with prejudice and released in exchange for a $169 million cash payment by us. no assurance can be given regarding the outcomes from litigation or other possible government actions. the resolution of these matters will be time-consuming, expensive, and may distract management from the conduct of our business and the related costs of defense, as well as any losses resulting from these claims or final settlement of these claims, could significantly increase our expenses and could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our financial condition and results of operations could suffer if there is an additional impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets with indefinite lives. we are required to test annually and review on an interim basis, our goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives, including the goodwill associated with past acquisitions and any future acquisitions, to determine if impairment has occurred. if such assets are deemed impaired, an impairment loss equal to the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the fair value of the assets would be recognized. this would result in incremental expenses for that quarter, which would reduce any earnings or increase any loss for the period in which the impairment was determined to have occurred. for example, such impairment could occur if the market value of our common stock falls below certain levels for a sustained period, or if the portions of our business related to companies we have acquired fail to grow at expected rates or decline. in the second quarter of 2006, our impairment evaluation resulted in a reduction of $1,280.0 million to the carrying value of goodwill on our balance sheet for the slt operating segment, primarily due to the decline in our market capitalization that occurred over a period of approximately nine months prior to the impairment review and, to a lesser extent, a decrease in the forecasted future cash flows used in the income approach. recently, the turmoil in credit markets and the broader economy has contributed to extreme price and volume fluctuations in global stock markets that have reduced the market price of many technology company stocks, including ours. future declines in our stock price, as well as any marked decline in our level of revenues or gross margins, increase the risk that goodwill and intangible assets may become impaired in future periods. we cannot accurately predict the amount and timing of any impairment of assets. while we believe that we currently have adequate internal control over financial reporting, we are exposed to risks from legislation requiring companies to evaluate those internal controls. section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 requires our management to report on, and our independent auditors to attest to, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. we have an ongoing program to perform the system and process evaluation and testing necessary to comply with these requirements. we have and will continue to incur significant expenses and devote management resources to section 404 compliance on an ongoing basis. in the event that our chief executive officer ( ceo ), chief financial officer ( cfo ), or independent registered public accounting firm determine in the future that, our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective as defined under section 404, investor perceptions may be adversely affected and could cause a decline in the market price of our stock. regulation of the telecommunications industry could harm our operating results and future prospects. the telecommunications industry is highly regulated, and our business and financial condition could be adversely affected by changes in the regulations relating to the telecommunications industry. currently, there are few laws or regulations that apply directly to access to or commerce on ip networks. we could be adversely affected by regulation of ip networks and commerce in any country where we operate. such regulations could address matters such as voice over the internet or using ip, encryption technology, and access charges for service providers. in addition, regulations have been adopted with respect to environmental matters, such as the weee and rohs regulations adopted by the european union, as well as regulations prohibiting government entities from purchasing security products that do not meet specified local certification criteria. compliance with such regulations may be costly and time-consuming for us and our suppliers and partners. the adoption and implementation of such regulations could decrease demand for our products, and at the same time could increase the cost of building and 26 table of contents selling our products as well as impact our ability to ship products into affected areas and recognize revenue in a timely manner, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. the investment of our cash balance and our investments in government and corporate debt securities are subject to risks, which may cause losses and affect the liquidity of these investments. at december 31, 2009, we had $1,604.7 million in cash and cash equivalents and $1,054.0 million in short- and long-term investments. we have invested these amounts primarily in u.s. government securities, government-sponsored enterprise obligations, foreign government debt securities, corporate notes and bonds, commercial paper, and money market funds meeting certain criteria. certain of these investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market, and interest rate risks, which may be exacerbated by u.s. sub-prime mortgage defaults that have affected various sectors of the financial markets and caused credit and liquidity issues. these market risks associated with our investment portfolio may have a negative adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations. uninsured losses could harm our operating results. we self-insure against many business risks and expenses, such as intellectual property litigation and our medical benefit programs, where we believe we can adequately self-insure against the anticipated exposure and risk or where insurance is either not deemed cost-effective or is not available. we also maintain a program of insurance coverage for various types of property, casualty, and other risks. we place our insurance coverage with various carriers in numerous jurisdictions. the types and amounts of insurance that we obtain vary from time to time and from location to location, depending on availability, cost, and our decisions with respect to risk retention. the policies are subject to deductibles, policy limits, and exclusions that result in our retention of a level of risk on a self-insurance basis. losses not covered by insurance could be substantial and unpredictable and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk 58 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk interest rate risk we maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. the value of our investments are subject to market price volatility. in addition, as of december 31, 2009, over 50% of our cash and marketable securities are held in non-u.s. domiciled countries. our marketable securities are generally classified as available-for-sale and, consequently, are recorded on our consolidated balance sheet at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). at any time, a rise in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our investment portfolio. conversely, a decline in interest rates could have a material impact on interest income from our investment portfolio. we do not currently hedge these interest rate exposures. we recognized immaterial gains and losses during the years ended december 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007, related to the sales of our investments. the following tables present hypothetical changes in fair value of the financial instruments held at december 31, 2009, and 2008, that are sensitive to changes in interest rates (in millions): valuation of securities given an valuation of securities given an interest fair value as of interest rate decrease of x bps december 31, rate increase of x bps (150 bps) (100 bps) (50 bps) 2009 50 bps 100 bps 150 bps government treasury and agencies $ 461.3 $ 460.0 $ 458.7 $ 457.3 $ 456.1 $ 454.8 $ 453.4 corporate bonds and notes 495.4 493.5 491.6 489.8 487.9 486.0 484.2 foreign government debt securities 98.2 97.7 97.2 96.7 96.2 95.7 95.2 other 1,099.7 1,099.7 1,099.7 1,099.7 1,099.6 1,099.6 1,099.6 total $ 2,154.6 $ 2,150.9 $ 2,147.2 $ 2,143.5 $ 2,139.8 $ 2,136.1 $ 2,132.4 valuation of securities given an valuation of securities given an interest fair value as of interest rate decrease of x bps december 31, rate increase of x bps (150 bps) (100 bps) (50 bps) 2008 50 bps 100 bps 150 bps government treasury and agencies $ 160.1 $ 159.6 $ 159.1 $ 158.7 $ 158.2 $ 157.7 $ 157.3 corporate bonds and notes 111.7 111.2 110.8 110.3 109.8 109.3 108.8 other 1,651.2 1,651.0 1,650.8 1,650.6 1,650.4 1,650.3 1,650.1 total $ 1,923.0 $ 1,921.8 $ 1,920.7 $ 1,919.6 $ 1,918.4 $ 1,917.3 $ 1,916.2 these instruments are not leveraged and are held for purposes other than trading. the modeling technique used measures the changes in fair value arising from selected potential changes in interest rates. market changes reflect immediate hypothetical parallel shifts in the yield curve of plus or minus 50 basis points ( bps ), 100 bps, and 150 bps, which are representative of the historical movements in the federal funds rate. foreign currency risk and foreign exchange forward contracts periodically, we use derivatives to hedge against fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. we do not enter into derivatives for speculative or trading purposes. we use foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate variability in gains and losses generated from the re-measurement of certain monetary assets and liabilities denominated in non-functional currencies. these derivatives are carried at fair value with changes recorded in other income (expense) in the same period as the changes in the 58 table of contents fair value from the re-measurement of the underlying assets and liabilities. these foreign exchange contracts have maturities of approximately two months. our sales and costs of product revenues are primarily denominated in u.s. dollars. our cost of service revenue and operating expenses are denominated in u.s. dollars as well as other foreign currencies including the british pound, the euro, indian rupee, and japanese yen. periodically, we use foreign currency forward and/or option contracts to hedge certain forecasted foreign currency transactions relating to cost of service revenue and operating expenses. these derivatives are designated as cash flow hedges and have maturities of less than one year. the effective portion of the derivative gain or loss is initially reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and, upon occurrence of the forecasted transaction, is subsequently reclassified into the line item in the consolidated statements of operations to which the hedged transaction relates. we record the ineffectiveness of the hedging instruments, which was immaterial during the years ended december 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively, in other income (expense) on our consolidated statements of operations. the decrease in operating expenses including cost of service revenue, r d, sales and marketing, and g a expenses, due to foreign currency fluctuations was approximately 2% in 2009. in 2008 and 2007, the increase in cost of service revenue, operating expenses including r d, sales and marketing, and g a, due to foreign currency fluctuations was approximately 1% and 2%, respectively. equity price risk our portfolio of publicly-traded equity securities is inherently exposed to equity price risk as the stock market fluctuates. we monitor our publicly-traded equity investments for impairment on a periodic basis. in the event that the carrying value of a public-traded equity investment exceeds its fair value, and we determine the decline in value to be other than temporary, we reduce the carrying value to its current fair value. in 2008, we realized an impairment charge of $3.5 million on a publicly-traded equity security due to a sustained decline, in excess of six months, in the fair value of the investment below its cost basis that we judged to be other than temporary. there was no such charge in 2009. we do not purchase our publicly-traded equity securities with the intent to use them for trading or speculative purposes. they are classified as available-for-sale securities on our consolidated balance sheets. the aggregate fair value of our marketable equity securities was $5.4 million and $4.4 million as of december 31, 2009, and 2008, respectively. additionally, our non-qualified deferred compensation ( nqdc ) plan may also hold publicly traded securities. investments under the nqdc plan are considered trading securities and are reported at fair value on our consolidated balance sheet. as of december 31, 2009, and 2008, the total investments under the nqdc plan was $4.7 million and $1.0 million, respectively. a hypothetical 30% adverse change in the stock prices of our portfolio of publicly-traded equity securities would result in an immaterial loss. our investments in privately-held companies are carried at cost. in 2009 and 2008, we realized an impairment charge of $5.5 million and $11.3 million, respectively, on minority equity investments in privately-held companies that we judged to be other than temporary as discussed in note 4, fair value measurements , in notes to consolidated financial statements in item 8 of part ii of this annual report on form 10-k. the aggregate cost of our investments in privately-held companies was $13.9 million and $14.2 million as of december 31, 2009, and 2008, respectively. 59quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk 39 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk interest rate risk we maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types and maturities. these securities are generally classified as available-for-sale and, consequently, are recorded on the consolidated balance sheet at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). at any time, a rise in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our investment portfolio. conversely, declines in interest rates could have a material impact on interest earnings of our investment portfolio. we do not currently hedge these interest rate exposures. the following table presents hypothetical changes in fair value of the financial instruments held at december 31, 2004 that are sensitive to changes in interest rates (in thousands): fair value valuation of securities given an as of valuation of securities given an interest interest rate decrease of x basis points (bps) december rate increase of x bps (150 bps) (100 bps) (50 bps) 31, 2004 50 bps 100 bps 150 bps government treasury and agencies $ 246,971 $ 245,623 $ 244,275 $ 242,926 $ 241,578 $ 240,230 $ 238,882 corporate bonds and notes 538,734 535,506 532,278 529,050 525,822 522,594 519,366 asset backed securities and other 354,231 353,832 353,434 353,036 352,638 352,239 351,841 total $ 1,139,936 $ 1,134,961 $ 1,129,987 $ 1,125,012 $ 1,120,038 $ 1,115,063 $ 1,110,089 these instruments are not leveraged and are held for purposes other than trading. the modeling technique used measures the changes in fair value arising from selected potential changes in interest rates. market changes reflect immediate hypothetical parallel shifts in the yield curve of plus or minus 50 basis points (bps), 100 bps and 150 bps, which are representative of the historical movements in the federal funds rate. foreign currency risk and foreign exchange forward contracts it is our policy to use derivatives to partially offset our market exposure to fluctuations in foreign currencies. we recognize these derivatives on the consolidated balance sheet at fair value. we do not enter into derivatives for speculative or trading purposes. we use foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge foreign currency forecasted transactions related to certain operating expenses, denominated primarily in the euro, japanese yen, and british pound. these derivatives are designated as cash flow hedges, and have maturities between one and two months. we attempt to limit our exposure to credit risk by executing foreign exchange contracts with creditworthy financial institutions. for a derivative designated as a cash flow hedge, the effective portion of the derivative gain or loss is initially reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income, and upon occurrence of the forecasted transaction, is subsequently reclassified into the consolidated statement of operations line item to which the hedged transaction relates. we record any ineffectiveness of the hedging instruments, which was immaterial during the years ended december 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, in other income/(expense) on our consolidated statement of operations. in the event the underlying forecasted transaction does not occur, or it becomes probable that it will not occur, we reclassify the gain or loss on the related cash flow hedge from accumulated other comprehensive income to other income/(expense) on the consolidated statement of operations at that time. for the years - 39 - table of contents ended december 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, there were no material net gains or losses recognized in other income/(expense) relating to hedges of forecasted transactions that did not occur. additionally, we use foreign exchange forward contracts to mitigate transaction gains and losses generated by certain monetary assets and liabilities denominated primarily in the euro, japanese yen and british pound. these derivatives are carried at fair value with changes recorded in other income/(expense). changes in the fair value of these foreign exchange contracts are largely offset by remeasurement of the underlying assets and liabilities. these foreign exchange contracts have maturities between one and two months. we performed a sensitivity analysis assuming a hypothetical 10 percent adverse movement in foreign exchange rates to the foreign exchange contracts and the underlying exposures described above. as of december 31, 2004, the analysis indicated that these hypothetical market movements would not have a material effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.risk factors 11 risk factors factors that may affect future results investments in equity securities of publicly traded companies involve significant risks. the market price of our stock reflects a higher multiple of expected future earnings than many other companies. accordingly, even small changes in investor expectations for our future growth and earnings, whether as a result of actual or rumored financial or operating results, changes in the mix of the products and services sold, acquisitions, industry changes or other factors, could trigger significant fluctuations in the market price of our common stock. investors in our securities should carefully consider all of the relevant factors, including but not limited to the following factors, that could affect our stock price. fluctuating economic conditions make it difficult to predict revenues for a particular period and a shortfall in revenues may harm our operating results. our revenues depend significantly on general economic conditions and the demand for products in the markets in which we compete. economic weakness, customer financial difficulties and constrained spending on network expansion have previously resulted (for example, in 2001 and 2002), and may in the future result, in decreased revenues and earnings and could also negatively impact our ability to forecast and manage our contract manufacturer relationships. economic downturns may also lead to restructuring initiatives and associated expenses and impairment of investments. in addition, our operating expenses are largely based on anticipated revenue trends and a high percentage of our expenses are, and will continue to be, fixed in the short-term. uncertainty about future economic conditions makes it difficult to forecast operating results and to make decisions about future investments. future economic weakness, customer financial difficulties and reductions in spending on network expansion could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and consequently on our results of operations and stock price. our quarterly results are inherently unpredictable and subject to substantial fluctuations and, as a result, we may fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. our revenues and operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control and any of which may cause our stock price to fluctuate. the factors that may affect the unpredictability of our quarterly results include, but are not limited to, limited visibility into customer spending plans, changes in the mix of products sold, changing market conditions, including current and potential customer consolidation, competition, customer concentration, long sales and implementation cycles, regional economic and political conditions and seasonality. for example, many companies in our industry experience adverse seasonal fluctuations in customer spending patterns, particularly in the first and third quarters. as a result, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of operating results are not necessarily a good indication of what our future performance will be. it is likely that in some future quarters, our operating results may be below one or more of the expectations of securities analysts and investors in which case the price of our common stock may decline. such a decline could occur, and has occurred in the past, even when we have met our publicly stated revenue and/or earnings guidance. we sell our products to customers that use those products to build networks and ip infrastructure and, if the demand for network and ip systems does not continue to grow, then our business, operating results and financial condition will be adversely affected. a substantial portion of our business and revenue depends on the growth of ip infrastructure and on the deployment of our products by customers that depend on the continued growth of ip services. as a result of changes in the economy and capital spending or the building of network capacity in excess of demand, all of which have in the past particularly affected telecommunications service providers, spending on ip infrastructure can vary, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. a limited number of our customers comprise a significant portion of our revenues and any decrease in revenue from these customers could have an adverse effect on our net revenues and operating results. a substantial majority of our net revenues depend on sales to a limited number of customers and distribution partners. siemens accounted for greater than 10% of our net revenues during the years ended december 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 and ericsson accounted for greater than 10% of our net revenues during the year ended december 31, 2003. this customer concentration increases the risk of quarterly fluctuations in our revenues and operating results. any downturn in the business of our key customers or potential new customers could significantly decrease 11 table of contents sales to such customers, which could adversely affect our net revenues and results of operations. in addition, there has been and continues to be consolidation in the telecommunications industry (for example, the acquisitions of at t and mci). this consolidation may cause our customers who are involved in these acquisitions to suspend or indefinitely reduce their purchases of our products or have other unforeseen consequences. we face intense competition that could reduce our revenues and adversely affect our financial results. competition is intense in the markets that we address. the ip infrastructure market has historically been dominated by cisco systems, inc., with other companies such as alcatel s.a., nortel networks corporation, and huawei technologies providing products to a smaller segment of the market. in addition, a number of other small public or private companies have products or have announced plans for new products to address the same challenges that our products address. in the service layer technologies market, we face intense competition from a broader group of companies including appliance vendors such as cisco systems, inc and software vendors such as checkpoint software technologies. in addition, a number of other small public or private companies have products or have announced plans for new products to address the same challenges that our products address. if we are unable to compete successfully against existing and future competitors on the basis of product offerings or price, we could experience a loss in market share and revenues and/or be required to reduce prices, which could reduce our gross margins, and which could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. the long sales and implementation cycles for our products, as well as our expectation that some customers will sporadically place large orders with short lead times, may cause our revenues and operating results to vary significantly from quarter to quarter. a customer decision to purchase certain of our products involves a significant commitment of its resources and a lengthy evaluation and product qualification process. as a result, the sales cycle may be lengthy. in particular, customers making critical decisions regarding the design and implementation of large or next-generation networks may engage in very lengthy procurement processes that may delay or impact expected future orders. throughout the sales cycle, we may spend considerable time educating and providing information to prospective customers regarding the use and benefits of our products. even after making the decision to purchase, customers may deploy our products slowly and deliberately. timing of deployment can vary widely and depends on the skill set of the customer, the size of the network deployment, the complexity of the customer network environment and the degree of hardware and operating system configuration necessary to deploy the products. customers with large networks usually expand their networks in large increments on a periodic basis. accordingly, we may receive purchase orders for significant dollar amounts on an irregular basis. these long cycles, as well as our expectation that customers will tend to sporadically place large orders with short lead times, may cause revenues and operating results to vary significantly and unexpectedly from quarter to quarter. we are dependent on sole source and limited source suppliers for several key components, which makes us susceptible to shortages or price fluctuations in our supply chain and we may face increased challenges in supply chain management in the future. with the current demand for electronic products, component shortages are possible and the predictability of the availability of such components may be limited. growth in our business and the economy is likely to create greater pressures on us and our suppliers to accurately project overall component demand and to establish optimal component levels. if shortages or delays persist, the price of these components may increase, or the components may not be available at all. we may not be able to secure enough components at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build new products in a timely manner and our revenues and gross margins could suffer until other sources can be developed. we currently purchase numerous key components, including application-specific integrated circuits (asics), from single or limited sources. the development of alternate sources for those components is time consuming, difficult and costly. in addition, the lead times associated with certain components are lengthy and preclude rapid changes in quantities and delivery schedules. in the event of a component shortage or supply interruption from these suppliers, we may not be able to develop alternate or second sources in a timely manner. if, as a result, we are unable to buy these components in quantities sufficient to meet our requirements on a timely basis, we will not be able to deliver product to our customers, which would seriously impact present and future sales, which would, in turn, adversely affect our business. 12 table of contents in addition, the development, licensing or acquisition of new products in the future may increase the complexity of supply chain management. failure to effectively manage the supply of key components and products would adversely affect our business. if we fail to accurately predict our manufacturing requirements, we could incur additional costs or experience manufacturing delays which would harm our business. we provide demand forecasts to our contract manufacturers. if we overestimate our requirements, the contract manufacturers may assess charges or we may have liabilities for excess inventory, each of which could negatively affect our gross margins. conversely, because lead times for required materials and components vary significantly and depend on factors such as the specific supplier, contract terms and the demand for each component at a given time, if we underestimate our requirements, the contract manufacturers may have inadequate time or materials and components required to produce our products, which could delay or interrupt manufacturing of our products and result in delays in shipments and deferral or loss of revenues. we are dependent on contract manufacturers with whom we do not have long-term supply contracts, and changes to those relationships, expected or unexpected, may result in delays or disruptions that could cause us to lose revenue and damage our customer relationships. we depend primarily on independent contract manufacturers (each of whom is a third party manufacturer for numerous companies) to manufacture our products. although we have contracts with our contract manufacturers, those contracts do not require them to manufacture our products on a long-term basis in any specific quantity or at any specific price. in addition, it is time consuming and costly to qualify and implement additional contract manufacturer relationships. therefore, if we should fail to effectively manage our contract manufacturer relationships or if one or more of them should experience delays, disruptions or quality control problems in our manufacturing operations, or we had to change or add additional contract manufacturers or contract manufacturing sites, our ability to ship products to our customers could be delayed. also, the addition of manufacturing locations or contract manufacturers would increase the complexity of our supply chain management. each of these factors could adversely affect our business and financial results. integration of past acquisitions and future acquisitions could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition and stock price and may dilute the ownership of our stockholders. we have made, and may continue to make, acquisitions in order to enhance our business. in 2005 we completed the acquisitions of funk, acorn, peribit, redline, and kagoor. acquisitions involve numerous risks, including problems combining the purchased operations, technologies or products, unanticipated costs, diversion of management attention from our core businesses, adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers, risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience and potential loss of key employees. there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully integrate any businesses, products, technologies or personnel that we might acquire. the integration of businesses that we have acquired has been, and will continue to be, a complex, time consuming and expensive process. for example, although we completed the acquisition of netscreen in april 2004, integration of the products, operations, and personnel is a continuing activity and will be for the foreseeable future. acquisitions may also require us to issue common stock that dilutes the ownership of our current stockholders, assume liabilities, record goodwill and non-amortizable intangible assets that will be subject to impairment testing on a regular basis and potential periodic impairment charges, incur amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets, and incur large and immediate write-offs and restructuring and other related expenses, all of which could harm our operating results and financial condition. in addition, if we fail in our integration efforts and are unable to efficiently operate as a combined organization utilizing common information and communication systems, operating procedures, financial controls and human resources practices, our business and financial condition may be adversely affected. we rely on value-added resellers and distribution partners to sell our products, and disruptions to, or our failure to effectively develop and manage our distribution channel and the processes and procedures that support it could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues from the sale of our products. our future success is highly dependent upon establishing and maintaining successful relationships with a variety of value-added reseller and distribution partners. the majority of our revenues are derived through value-added resellers and distributors, most of which also sell competitors products. our revenues depend in part on the performance of 13 table of contents these partners. the loss of or reduction in sales to our value-added resellers or distributors could materially reduce our revenues. our competitors may in some cases be effective in incentivizing current or potential resellers and distributors to favor their products or to prevent or reduce sales of our products. if we fail to maintain relationships with our partners, fail to develop new relationships with value-added resellers and distributors in new markets or expand the number of distributors and resellers in existing markets, fail to manage, train or motivate existing value-added resellers and distributors effectively or if these partners are not successful in their sales efforts, sales of our products may decrease and our operating results would suffer. in addition, we recognize a portion of our revenue based on a sell-through model using information provided by our distributors. if those distributors provide us with inaccurate or untimely information, the amount or timing of our revenues could be adversely impacted. further, in order to develop and expand our distribution channel, we must continue to scale and improve our processes and procedures that support it, and those processes and procedures may become increasingly complex and inherently difficult to manage. our failure to successfully manage and develop our distribution channel and the processes and procedures that support it could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues from the sale of our products. we expect gross margin to vary over time and our recent level of product gross margin may not be sustainable. our product gross margins will vary from quarter to quarter and the recent level of gross margins may not be sustainable and may be adversely affected in the future by numerous factors, including product mix shifts, increased price competition in one or more of the markets in which we compete, increases in material or labor costs, excess product component or obsolescence charges from our contract manufacturers, increased costs due to changes in component pricing or charges incurred due to component holding periods if our forecasts do not accurately anticipate product demand, warranty related issues, or our introduction of new products or entry into new markets with different pricing and cost structures. recent rulemaking by the financial accounting standards board will require us to expense equity compensation given to our employees and will significantly harm our operating results and may reduce our ability to effectively utilize equity compensation to attract and retain employees. we historically have used stock options as a significant component of our employee compensation program in order to align employees interests with the interests of our stockholders, encourage employee retention, and provide competitive compensation packages. the financial accounting standards board has adopted changes that will require companies to record a charge to earnings for employee stock option grants and other equity incentives. we adopted this standard effective january 1, 2006. by causing us to record significantly increased compensation costs, such accounting changes will reduce our reported earnings and will require us to reduce the availability and amount of equity incentives provided to employees, which may make it more difficult for us to attract, retain and motivate key personnel. each of these results could materially and adversely affect our business. our reported financial results could suffer if there is an impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets with indefinite lives. we are required to annually test, and review on an interim basis, our goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives, including the goodwill associated with past acquisitions and any future acquisitions, to determine if impairment has occurred. if such assets are deemed impaired, an impairment loss equal to the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the fair value of the assets would be recognized. this would result in incremental expenses for that quarter which would reduce any earnings or increase any loss for the period in which the impairment was determined to have occurred. for example, such impairment could occur if the market value of our common stock falls below certain levels or if the portions of our business related to companies we have acquired fail to grow at expected rates or decline. we cannot accurately predict the amount and timing of any impairment of assets. 14 table of contents our ability to process orders and ship product is dependent in part on our business systems and upon interfaces with the systems of third parties such as our suppliers or other partners. if our systems, the systems of those third parties or the interfaces between them fail, our business processes could be impacted and our financial results could be harmed. some of our business processes depend upon our information technology systems and on interfaces with the systems of third parties. for example, our order entry system feeds information into the systems of our contract manufacturers, which enables them to build and ship our products. if those systems fail, our processes may function at a diminished level or not at all. this could negatively impact our ability to ship products or otherwise operate our business, and our financial results could be harmed. our products are highly technical and if they contain undetected errors, our business could be adversely affected and we might have to defend lawsuits or pay damages in connection with any alleged or actual failure of our products and services. our products are highly technical and complex, are critical to the operation of many networks and, in the case of our security products, provide and monitor network security and may protect valuable information. our products have contained and may contain one or more undetected errors, defects or security vulnerabilities. some errors in our products may only be discovered after a product has been installed and used by end customers. any errors or security vulnerabilities discovered in our products after commercial release could result in loss of revenues or delay in revenue recognition, loss of customers and increased service and warranty cost, any of which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. in addition, we could face claims for product liability, tort or breach of warranty. defending a lawsuit, regardless of its merit, is costly and may divert management attention. in addition, if our business liability insurance coverage is inadequate or future coverage is unavailable on acceptable terms or at all, our financial condition could be harmed. a breach of network security could harm public perception of our security products, which could cause us to lose revenues. if an actual or perceived breach of network security occurs in the network of a customer of our security products, regardless of whether the breach is attributable to our products, the market perception of the effectiveness of our products could be harmed. this could cause us to lose current and potential end customers or cause us to lose current and potential value-added resellers and distributors. because the techniques used by computer hackers to access or sabotage networks change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques. if we do not successfully anticipate market needs and develop products and product enhancements that meet those needs, or if those products do not gain market acceptance, we may not be able to compete effectively and our ability to generate revenues will suffer. we cannot guarantee that we will be able to anticipate future market needs or be able to develop new products or product enhancements to meet such needs or to meet them in a timely manner. if we fail to anticipate the market requirements or to develop new products or product enhancements to meet those needs, such failure could substantially decrease market acceptance and sales of our present and future products, which would significantly harm our business and financial results. even if we are able to anticipate, develop and commercially introduce new products and enhancements, there can be no assurance that new products or enhancements will achieve widespread market acceptance. any failure of our products to achieve market acceptance could adversely affect our business and financial results. if our products do not interoperate with our customers networks, installations will be delayed or cancelled and could harm our business. our products are designed to interface with our customers existing networks, each of which have different specifications and utilize multiple protocol standards and products from other vendors. many of our customers networks contain multiple generations of products that have been added over time as these networks have grown and evolved. our products will be required to interoperate with many or all of the products within these networks as well as future products in order to meet our customers requirements. if we find errors in the existing software or defects in the hardware used in our customers networks, we may have to modify our software or hardware to fix or overcome these errors so that our products will interoperate and scale with the existing software and hardware, which could be costly and negatively impact our operating results. in addition, if our products do not interoperate with those of our customers networks, demand for our products could be adversely affected, orders for our products could be cancelled or our products could be returned. this could hurt our operating results, damage our reputation and seriously harm our business and prospects. 15 table of contents litigation or claims regarding intellectual property rights may be time consuming, expensive and require a significant amount of resources to prosecute, defend or make our products non-infringing. third parties have asserted and may in the future assert claims or initiate litigation related to exclusive patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights to technologies and related standards that are relevant to our products. for example, in 2003, toshiba corporation filed a lawsuit against us, alleging that our products infringe certain toshiba patents. the asserted claims and/or initiated litigation may include claims against us or our manufacturers, suppliers or customers, alleging infringement of their proprietary rights with respect to our products. regardless of the merit of these claims, they can be time-consuming, result in costly litigation and may require us to develop non-infringing technologies or enter into license agreements. furthermore, because of the potential for high awards of damages or injunctive relief that are not necessarily predictable, even arguably unmeritorious claims may be settled for significant amounts of money. if any infringement or other intellectual property claim made against us by any third party is successful, if we are required to settle litigation for significant amounts of money, or if we fail to develop non-infringing technology or license required proprietary rights on commercially reasonable terms and conditions, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. we are a party to lawsuits, which, if determined adversely to us, could require us to pay damages which could harm our business and financial condition. we and certain of our current and former officers and current and former members of our board of directors are subject to various lawsuits. there can be no assurance that actions that have been brought against us or may be brought against us will be resolved in our favor. regardless of whether they are in our favor, these lawsuits are, and any future lawsuits to which we may become a party will likely be, expensive and time consuming to defend or resolve. such costs of defense and any losses resulting from these claims could adversely affect our profitability and cash flow. due to the global nature of our operations, economic or social conditions or changes in a particular country or region could adversely affect our sales or increase our costs and expenses, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition. we conduct significant sales and customer support operations directly and indirectly through our distributors and value-added resellers in countries throughout the world and also depend on the operations of our contract manufacturers and suppliers that are located inside and outside of the united states. accordingly, our future results could be materially adversely affected by a variety of uncontrollable and changing factors including, among others, political or social unrest, natural disasters, epidemic disease, war, or economic instability in a specific country or region, trade protection measures and other regulatory requirements which may affect our ability to import or export our products from various countries, service provider and government spending patterns affected by political considerations and difficulties in staffing and managing international operations. any or all of these factors could have a material adverse impact on our revenue, costs, expenses, results of operations and financial condition. we are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates which could negatively affect our financial results and cash flows. because a majority of our business is conducted outside the united states, we face exposure to adverse movements in non-us currency exchange rates. these exposures may change over time as business practices evolve and could have a material adverse impact on our financial results and cash flows. the majority of our revenues and expenses are transacted in us dollars. we also have some transactions that are denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the japanese yen, hong kong dollar, british pound and the euro, related to our sales and service operations outside of the united states. an increase in the value of the us dollar could increase the real cost to our customers of our products in those markets outside the united states where we sell in us dollars, and a weakened dollar could increase the cost of local operating expenses and procurement of raw materials to the extent we must purchase components in foreign currencies. currently, we hedge only those currency exposures associated with certain assets and liabilities denominated in nonfunctional currencies and periodically will hedge anticipated foreign currency cash flows. the hedging activities undertaken by us are intended to offset the impact of currency fluctuations on certain nonfunctional currency assets and liabilities. if our attempts to hedge against these risks are not successful, our net income could be adversely impacted. 16 table of contents traditional telecommunications companies and other large companies generally require more onerous terms and conditions of their vendors. as we seek to sell more products to such customers, we may be required to agree to terms and conditions that may have an adverse effect on our business. traditional telecommunications companies and other large companies, because of their size, generally have had greater purchasing power and, accordingly, have requested and received more favorable terms, which often translate into more onerous terms and conditions for their vendors. as we seek to sell more products to this class of customer, we may be required to agree to such terms and conditions, which may include terms that affect the timing of our ability to recognize revenue and have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. for example, many customers in this class have purchased products from other vendors who promised certain functionality and failed to deliver such functionality and/or had products that caused problems and outages in the networks of these customers. as a result, this class of customers may request additional features from us and require substantial penalties for failure to deliver such features or may require substantial penalties for any network outages that may be caused by our products. these additional requests and penalties, if we are required to agree to them, would affect our ability to recognize the revenues from such sales, which may negatively affect our business and our financial condition. our products incorporate and rely upon licensed third-party technology and if licenses of third-party technology do not continue to be available to us or become very expensive, our revenues and ability to develop and introduce new products could be adversely affected. we integrate licensed third-party technology into certain of our products. from time to time, we may be required to license additional technology from third parties to develop new products or product enhancements. third-party licenses may not be available or continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms. our inability to maintain or re-license any third-party licenses required in our products or our inability to obtain third-party licenses necessary to develop new products and product enhancements, could require us to obtain substitute technology of lower quality or performance standards or at a greater cost, any of which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. our ability to develop, market and sell products could be harmed if we are unable to retain or hire key personnel. our future success depends upon our ability to recruit and retain the services of key executive, engineering, sales, marketing and support personnel. the supply of highly qualified individuals, in particular engineers in very specialized technical areas, or sales people specializing in the service provider and enterprise markets, is limited and competition for such individuals is intense. none of our officers or key employees is bound by an employment agreement for any specific term. the loss of the services of any of our key employees, the inability to attract or retain key personnel in the future or delays in hiring required personnel, particularly engineers and sales people, and the complexity and time involved in replacing or training new employees, could delay the development and introduction of new products, and negatively impact our ability to market, sell or support our products. our success depends upon our ability to effectively plan and manage our resources and restructure our business through rapidly fluctuating economic and market conditions. past restructuring efforts may prove to be inadequate or may impair our ability to realize our current or future business objectives. our ability to successfully offer our products and services in a rapidly evolving market requires an effective planning, forecasting, and management process to enable us to effectively scale our business and adjust our business in response to fluctuating market opportunities and conditions. in periods of market expansion, we have increased investment in our business by, for example increasing headcount and increasing our investment in research and development and other parts of our business. conversely, during 2001 and 2002, in response to downward trending industry and market conditions, we restructured our business and reduced our workforce. in addition, we expect that we will have to change our facilities in certain locations and we may face difficulties and significant expenses identifying and moving into suitable office space and subleasing or assigning any surplus space. these changes and other similar actions taken to respond to fluctuating market and economic conditions have placed, and our anticipated future operations will continue to place, significant demands on our management resources. this may increase the potential likelihood of other risks, and our business may suffer if we fail to effectively manage changes in the size and scope of our operations. 17 table of contents we may not be able to successfully implement the initiatives we have undertaken in restructuring our business in the past and, even if successfully implemented, these initiatives may not be sufficient to meet the changes in industry and market conditions. furthermore, our past workforce reductions may impair our ability to realize our current or future business objectives. lastly, costs actually incurred in connection with restructuring actions may be higher than the estimated costs of such actions and/or may not lead to the anticipated cost savings, all of which could harm our results of operations and financial condition. if we fail to adequately evolve our financial and managerial control and reporting systems and processes, our ability to manage and grow our business will be negatively affected. our ability to successfully offer our products and implement our business plan in a rapidly evolving market depends upon an effective planning and management process. we will need to continue to improve our financial and managerial control and our reporting systems and procedures in order to manage our business effectively in the future. if we fail to continue to implement improved systems and processes, our ability to manage our business and results of operations may be negatively affected. we are subject to risks arising from our international operations. we derive a majority of our revenues from our international operations, and we plan to continue expanding our business in international markets in the future. as a result of our international operations, we are affected by economic, regulatory and political conditions in foreign countries, including changes in it spending generally, the imposition of government controls, changes or limitations in trade protection laws, unfavorable changes in tax treaties or laws, natural disasters, labor unrest, earnings expatriation restrictions, misappropriation of intellectual property, acts of terrorism and continued unrest in many regions and other factors, which could have a material impact on our international revenues and operations. in particular, in some countries we may experience reduced intellectual property protection. moreover, local laws and customs in many countries differ significantly from those in the united states. in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common for others to engage in business practices that are prohibited by our internal policies and procedures or united states regulations applicable to us. although we implement policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws and policies, there can be no assurance that all of our employees, contractors and agents will not take actions in violations of them. violations of laws or key control policies by our employees, contractors or agents could result in financial reporting problems, fines, penalties, prohibition on the importation or exportation of our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business. while we believe that we currently have adequate internal control over financial reporting, we are exposed to risks from recent legislation requiring companies to evaluate those internal controls. section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 requires our management to report on, and our independent auditors to attest to, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. we have an ongoing program to perform the system and process evaluation and testing necessary to comply with these requirements. we have and will continue to incur significant expenses and devote management resources to section 404 compliance on an ongoing basis. in the event that our chief executive officer, chief financial officer or independent registered public accounting firm determine in the future that our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective as defined under section 404, investor perceptions may be adversely affected and could cause a decline in the market price of our stock. governmental regulations affecting the import or export of products could negatively affect our revenues. the united states and various foreign governments have imposed controls, export license requirements and restrictions on the import or export of some technologies, especially encryption technology. in addition, from time to time, governmental agencies have proposed additional regulation of encryption technology, such as requiring the escrow and governmental recovery of private encryption keys. governmental regulation of encryption technology and regulation of imports or exports, or our failure to obtain required import or export approval for our products could harm our international and domestic sales and adversely affect our revenues. regulation of the telecommunications industry could harm our operating results and future prospects. the telecommunications industry is highly regulated and our business and financial condition could be adversely affected by the changes in the regulations relating to the telecommunications industry. currently, there are few laws or 18 table of contents regulations that apply directly to access to or commerce on ip networks. we could be adversely affected by regulation of ip networks and commerce in any country where we operate. such regulations could address matters such as voice over the internet or using internet protocol, encryption technology, and access charges for service providers. in addition, regulations have been adopted with respect to environmental matters, such as the waste electrical and electronic equipment (weee) and restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment (rohs) regulations adopted by the european union, as well as regulations prohibiting government entities from purchasing security products that do not meet specified local certification criteria. compliance with such regulations may be costly and time-consuming for us and our suppliers and partners. the adoption and implementation of such regulations could decrease demand for our products, and at the same time could increase the cost of building and selling our products as well as impact our ability to ship products into affected areas and recognize revenue in a timely manner, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. changes in effective tax rates or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income or other tax returns could adversely affect our results. our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in countries where we have higher statutory rates, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws or interpretations thereof. in addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the internal revenue service and other tax authorities. we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. there can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk 39 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk interest rate risk we maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types and maturities. these securities are generally classified as available-for-sale and, consequently, are recorded on the consolidated balance sheet at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). at any time, a rise in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our investment portfolio. conversely, declines in interest rates could have a material impact on interest earnings of our investment portfolio. we do not currently hedge these interest rate exposures. 39 table of contents the following table presents hypothetical changes in fair value of the financial instruments held at december 31, 2005 that are sensitive to changes in interest rates (in millions): valuation of securities given an interest valuation of securities given an interest rate decrease of x basis points (bps) fair value as of rate increase of x bps (150 bps) (100 bps) (50 bps) december 31, 2005 50 bps 100 bps 150 bps government treasury and agencies $ 304.7 $ 302.9 $ 301.1 $ 299.3 $ 297.6 $ 295.8 $ 294.0 corporate bonds and notes 646.4 643.2 640.2 637.1 633.9 630.8 627.7 asset backed securities and other 372.8 372.2 371.5 370.9 370.2 369.6 368.9 total $ 1,323.9 $ 1,318.3 $ 1,312.8 $ 1,307.3 $ 1,301.7 $ 1,296.2 $ 1,290.6 the following table presents hypothetical changes in fair value of the financial instruments held at december 31, 2004 that are sensitive to changes in interest rates (in millions): valuation of securities given an interest valuation of securities given an interest rate decrease of x basis points (bps) fair value as of rate increase of x bps (150 bps) (100 bps) (50 bps) december 31, 2004 50 bps 100 bps 150 bps government treasury and agencies $ 247.0 $ 245.6 $ 244.3 $ 242.9 $ 241.6 $ 240.2 $ 238.9 corporate bonds and notes 538.7 535.5 532.3 529.1 525.8 522.6 519.4 asset backed securities and other 354.2 353.8 353.4 353.0 352.6 352.2 351.8 total $ 1,139.9 $ 1,134.9 $ 1,130.0 $ 1,125.0 $ 1,120.0 $ 1,115.0 $ 1,110.1 these instruments are not leveraged and are held for purposes other than trading. the modeling technique used measures the changes in fair value arising from selected potential changes in interest rates. market changes reflect immediate hypothetical parallel shifts in the yield curve of plus or minus 50 basis points (bps), 100 bps and 150 bps, which are representative of the historical movements in the federal funds rate. foreign currency risk and foreign exchange forward contracts it is our policy to use derivatives to partially offset our market exposure to fluctuations in foreign currencies. we do not enter into derivatives for speculative or trading purposes. we uses foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate transaction gains and losses generated by certain foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities. these derivatives are carried at fair value with changes recorded in other income (expense). changes in the fair value of these derivatives are largely offset by re-measurement of the underlying assets and liabilities. these foreign exchange contracts have maturities between one and two months. periodically, we use foreign currency forward and/or option contracts to hedge certain forecasted foreign currency transactions relating to operating expenses. these derivatives are designated as cash flow hedges and have maturities of less than one year. the effective portion of the derivative gain or loss is initially reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income, and upon occurrence of the forecasted transaction, is subsequently reclassified into the consolidated statements of operations line item to which the hedged transaction relates. we record any ineffectiveness of the hedging instruments, which was immaterial during the years ended december 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003, in other income (expense) in our results of operations. 40 table of contentsrisk factors 16 risk factors factors that may affect future results investments in equity securities of publicly traded companies involve significant risks. the market price of our stock reflects a higher multiple of expected future earnings than many other companies. accordingly, even small changes in investor expectations for our future growth and earnings, whether as a result of actual or rumored financial or operating results, changes in the mix of the products and services sold, acquisitions, industry changes or other factors, could trigger, and have triggered, significant fluctuations in the market price of our common stock. investors in our securities should carefully consider all of the relevant factors, including, but not limited to, the following factors, that could affect our stock price. our quarterly results are inherently unpredictable and subject to substantial fluctuations and, as a result, we may fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. our revenues and operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control and any of which may cause our stock price to fluctuate. the factors that may affect the unpredictability of our quarterly results include, but are not limited to, limited visibility into customer spending plans, changes in the mix of products sold, changing market conditions, including current and potential customer consolidation, competition, customer concentration, long sales and implementation 16 table of contents cycles, regional economic and political conditions and seasonality. for example, many companies in our industry experience adverse seasonal fluctuations in customer spending patterns, particularly in the first and third quarters. as a result, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of operating results are not necessarily a good indication of what our future performance will be. it is likely that in some future quarters, our operating results may be below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, in which case the price of our common stock may decline. such a decline could occur, and has occurred in the past, even when we have met our publicly stated revenue and/or earnings guidance. fluctuating economic conditions make it difficult to predict revenues for a particular period and a shortfall in revenues may harm our operating results. our revenues depend significantly on general economic conditions and the demand for products in the markets in which we compete. economic weakness, customer financial difficulties and constrained spending on network expansion have previously resulted (for example, in 2001 and 2002), and may in the future result, in decreased revenues and earnings and could negatively impact our ability to forecast and manage our contract manufacturer relationships. economic downturns may also lead to restructuring initiatives and associated expenses and impairment of investments. in addition, our operating expenses are largely based on anticipated revenue trends and a high percentage of our expenses are, and will continue to be, fixed in the short-term. uncertainty about future economic conditions makes it difficult to forecast operating results and to make decisions about future investments. future economic weakness, customer financial difficulties and reductions in spending on network expansion could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and consequently on our results of operations and stock price. telecommunications companies and other large companies generally require more onerous terms and conditions of their vendors. as we seek to sell more products to such customers, we may be required to agree to terms and conditions that may have an adverse effect on our business or ability to recognize revenues. telecommunications service provider companies and other large companies, because of their size, generally have had greater purchasing power and, accordingly, have requested and received more favorable terms, which often translate into more onerous terms and conditions for their vendors. as we seek to sell more products to this class of customer, we may be required to agree to such terms and conditions, which may include terms that affect the timing of our ability to recognize revenue and have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. consolidation among such large customers can further increase their buying power and ability to require onerous terms. for example, many customers in this class have purchased products from other vendors who promised certain functionality and failed to deliver such functionality and/or had products that caused problems and outages in the networks of these customers. as a result, this class of customers may request additional features from us and require substantial penalties for failure to deliver such features or may require substantial penalties for any network outages that may be caused by our products. these additional requests and penalties, if we are required to agree to them, may affect our ability to recognize the revenues from such sales, which may negatively affect our business and our financial condition. for example, in april 2006, we announced that we would be required to defer a large amount of revenue from a customer due to the contractual obligations required by that customer. for arrangements with multiple elements, vendor specific objective evidence of fair value of the undelivered element is required in order to separate the components and to account for elements of the arrangement separately. vendor specific objective evidence of fair value is based on the price charged when the element is sold separately. however, customers may require terms and conditions that make it more difficult or impossible for us to maintain vendor specific objective evidence of fair value for the undelivered elements to a similar group of customers, the result of which could cause us to defer the entire arrangement fees for a similar group of customers (product, maintenance, professional services, etc.) and recognize revenue only when the last element is delivered or if the only undelivered element is maintenance revenue would be recognized ratably over the contractual maintenance period which is generally one year but could be substantially longer. 17 table of contents if we do not successfully anticipate market needs and develop products and product enhancements that meet those needs, or if those products do not gain market acceptance, we may not be able to compete effectively and our ability to generate revenues will suffer. we cannot guarantee that we will be able to anticipate future market needs or be able to develop new products or product enhancements to meet such needs or to meet them in a timely manner. if we fail to anticipate market requirements or to develop new products or product enhancements to meet those needs, such failure could substantially decrease market acceptance and sales of our present and future products, which would significantly harm our business and financial results. even if we are able to anticipate, develop and commercially introduce new products and enhancements, there can be no assurance that new products or enhancements will achieve widespread market acceptance. for example, in the first quarter of 2008 we announced new products designed to address the ethernet switch market, a market in which we have not had a historical presence. if these new products do not gain market acceptance at a sufficient rate of growth, or at all, our ability to meet future financial targets may be adversely affected. any failure of our products to achieve market acceptance could adversely affect our business and financial results. we expect gross margin to vary over time and our recent level of product gross margin may not be sustainable. our product gross margins will vary from quarter to quarter and the recent level of gross margins may not be sustainable and may be adversely affected in the future by numerous factors, including product mix shifts, increased price competition in one or more of the markets in which we compete, increases in material or labor costs, excess product component or obsolescence charges from our contract manufacturers, increased costs due to changes in component pricing or charges incurred due to component holding periods if our forecasts do not accurately anticipate product demand, warranty related issues, or our introduction of new products or entry into new markets with different pricing and cost structures. we rely on value-added resellers and distribution partners to sell our products, and disruptions to, or our failure to effectively develop and manage, our distribution channel and the processes and procedures that support it could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues from the sale of our products. our future success is highly dependent upon establishing and maintaining successful relationships with a variety of value-added reseller and distribution partners. the majority of our revenues are derived through value-added resellers and distributors, most of which also sell competitors products or their own competitive products. our revenues depend in part on the performance of these partners. the loss of or reduction in sales to our value-added resellers or distributors could materially reduce our revenues. during 2006, alcatel, a value-added reseller and a competitor of ours, acquired lucent, one of our largest value-added resellers. in addition, in april 2007 our largest customer, siemens, transferred its telecommunications business to nokia-siemens networks, a joint venture between siemens and nokia. our competitors may in some cases be effective in providing incentives to current or potential resellers and distributors to favor their products or to prevent or reduce sales of our products. if we fail to maintain relationships with our partners, fail to develop new relationships with value-added resellers and distributors in new markets or expand the number of distributors and resellers in existing markets, fail to manage, train or motivate existing value-added resellers and distributors effectively or if these partners are not successful in their sales efforts, sales of our products may decrease and our operating results would suffer. in addition, we recognize a portion of our revenue based on a sell-through model using information provided by our distributors. if those distributors provide us with inaccurate or untimely information, the amount or timing of our revenues could be adversely impacted. further, in order to develop and expand our distribution channel, we must continue to scale and improve our processes and procedures that support it, and those processes and procedures may become increasingly complex and inherently difficult to manage. our failure to successfully manage and develop our distribution channel and the processes and procedures that support it could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues from the sale of our products. 18 table of contents if we fail to accurately predict our manufacturing requirements, we could incur additional costs or experience manufacturing delays which would harm our business. we provide demand forecasts to our contract manufacturers. if we overestimate our requirements, the contract manufacturers may assess charges or we may have liabilities for excess inventory, each of which could negatively affect our gross margins. conversely, because lead times for required materials and components vary significantly and depend on factors such as the specific supplier, contract terms and the demand for each component at a given time, if we underestimate our requirements, the contract manufacturers may have inadequate time or materials and components required to produce our products, which could increase costs or could delay or interrupt manufacturing of our products and result in delays in shipments and deferral or loss of revenues. our ability to process orders and ship products in a timely manner is dependent in part on our business systems and performance of the systems and processes of third parties such as our contract manufacturers, suppliers or other partners, as well as interfaces with the systems of such third parties. if our systems, the systems and processes of those third parties or the interfaces between them experience delays or fail, our business processes and our ability to build and ship products could be impacted, and our financial results could be harmed. some of our business processes depend upon our information technology systems, the systems and processes of third parties and on interfaces with the systems of third parties. for example, our order entry system feeds information into the systems of our contract manufacturers, which enables them to build and ship our products. if those systems fail or are interrupted, our processes may function at a diminished level or not at all. this could negatively impact our ability to ship products or otherwise operate our business, and our financial results could be harmed. for example, although it did not adversely affect our shipments, an earthquake in late december of 2006 disrupted communications with china, where a significant part of our manufacturing occurs. we also rely upon the performance of the systems and processes of our contract manufacturers to build and ship our products. if those systems and processes experience interruption or delay, our ability to build and ship our products in a timely manner may be harmed. for example, as we have expanded our contract manufacturing base to china, we have experienced instances where our contract manufacturer was not able to ship products in the time periods expected by us. if we are not able to ship our products or if product shipments are delayed, our ability to recognize revenue in a timely manner for those products would be affected and our financial results could be harmed. we are dependent on sole source and limited source suppliers for several key components, which makes us susceptible to shortages or price fluctuations in our supply chain and we may face increased challenges in supply chain management in the future. with the current demand for electronic products, component shortages are possible and the predictability of the availability of such components may be limited. growth in our business and the economy is likely to create greater pressures on us and our suppliers to accurately project overall component demand and to establish optimal component levels. if shortages or delays persist, the price of these components may increase, or the components may not be available at all. we may not be able to secure enough components at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build new products in a timely manner and our revenues and gross margins could suffer until other sources can be developed. for example, throughout the first quarter of 2006 we experienced component shortages that resulted in delays of shipments of product until late in the quarter and in an increase in our day sales outstanding. we currently purchase numerous key components, including asics, from single or limited sources. the development of alternate sources for those components is time consuming, difficult and costly. in addition, the lead times associated with certain components are lengthy and preclude rapid changes in quantities and delivery schedules. in the event of a component shortage or supply interruption from these suppliers, we may not be able to develop alternate or second sources in a timely manner. if, as a result, we are unable to buy these components in quantities sufficient to meet our requirements on a timely basis, we will not be able to deliver product to our customers, which would seriously impact present and future sales, which would, in turn, adversely affect our business. 19 table of contents in addition, the development, licensing or acquisition of new products in the future may increase the complexity of supply chain management. failure to effectively manage the supply of key components and products would adversely affect our business. we are dependent on contract manufacturers with whom we do not have long-term supply contracts, and changes to those relationships, expected or unexpected, may result in delays or disruptions that could cause us to lose revenue and damage our customer relationships. we depend on independent contract manufacturers (each of which is a third-party manufacturer for numerous companies) to manufacture our products. although we have contracts with our contract manufacturers, those contracts do not require them to manufacture our products on a long-term basis in any specific quantity or at any specific price. in addition, it is time consuming and costly to qualify and implement additional contract manufacturer relationships. therefore, if we should fail to effectively manage our contract manufacturer relationships or if one or more of them should experience delays, disruptions or quality control problems in our manufacturing operations, or if we had to change or add additional contract manufacturers or contract manufacturing sites, our ability to ship products to our customers could be delayed. also, the addition of manufacturing locations or contract manufacturers would increase the complexity of our supply chain management. moreover, an increasing portion of our manufacturing is performed in china and other countries and is therefore subject to risks associated with doing business in other countries. each of these factors could adversely affect our business and financial results. we face intense competition that could reduce our revenues and adversely affect our financial results. competition is intense in the markets that we address. the ip infrastructure market has historically been dominated by cisco with other companies such as alcatel-lucent, ericsson, extreme networks, foundry networks, huawei, and nortel providing products to a smaller segment of the market. in addition, a number of other small public and private companies have products or have announced plans for new products to address the same challenges and market segments that our products address. in the service layer technologies market, we face intense competition from a broader group of companies including appliance vendors such as cisco, fortinet, f5 networks, nortel and riverbed, and software vendors such as checkpoint. in addition, a number of other small public and private companies have products or have announced plans for new products to address the same challenges that our products address. in addition, actual or speculated consolidation among competitors, or the acquisition of our partners and resellers by competitors, can increase the competitive pressures faced by us. in this regard, alcatel combined with lucent in 2006 and ericsson acquired redback in 2007. a number of our competitors have substantially greater resources and can offer a wider range of products and services for the overall network equipment market than we do. if we are unable to compete successfully against existing and future competitors on the basis of product offerings or price, we could experience a loss in market share and revenues and/or be required to reduce prices, which could reduce our gross margins, and which could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. a limited number of our customers comprise a significant portion of our revenues and increases the degree of customer concentration risk, and any decrease in revenue from these customers could have an adverse effect on our net revenues and operating results. a substantial majority of our net revenues depend on sales to a limited number of customers and distribution partners. nokia-siemens networks b.v. ( nsn ) and its predecessor companies contributed more than 10% of revenue in the fiscal years ended 2007, 2006 and 2005. this customer concentration increases the risk of quarterly fluctuations in our revenues and operating results. any downturn in the business of our key customers or potential new customers could significantly decrease sales to such customers, which could adversely affect our net revenues and results of operations. in addition, there has been and continues to be consolidation in the telecommunications industry (for example, the acquisitions of at t inc., mci, inc. and bellsouth corporation) and consolidation among the large vendors of telecommunications equipment and services (for example, the combination of alcatel and lucent, the joint venture of nokia-siemens networks and the acquisition of redback by ericsson). such 20 table of contents consolidation may cause our customers who are involved in these acquisitions to suspend or indefinitely reduce their purchases of our products or have other unforeseen consequences that could harm our business and operating results. we are a party to lawsuits, which are costly to investigate and defend and, if determined adversely to us, could require us to pay damages or prevent us from taking certain actions, any or all of which could harm our business and financial condition. we and certain of our current and former officers and current and former members of our board of directors are subject to various lawsuits. for example, we have been served with lawsuits related to the alleged backdating of stock options and other related matters, a description of which can be found in note 8 of notes to consolidated financial statements, under the heading legal proceedings. there can be no assurance that these or any actions that have been or may be brought against us will be resolved in our favor. regardless of whether they are resolved in our favor, these lawsuits are, and any future lawsuits to which we may become a party will likely be, expensive and time consuming to investigate, defend and/or resolve. such costs of investigation and defense, as well as any losses resulting from these claims, could significantly increase our expenses and adversely affect our profitability and cash flow. in addition, we are party to a lawsuit which seeks to enjoin us from granting equity awards under our 2006 equity incentive plan (the 2006 plan ), as well as to invalidate all awards granted under such plan to date. the 2006 plan is the only active plan under which we currently grant stock options and restricted stock units to our employees. if this lawsuit is resolved against us, we may be prevented from using the 2006 plan to provide these equity awards to recruit new employees or to compensate existing employees, which would put us at a significant disadvantage to other companies that compete for workers in high technology industries such as ours. accordingly, our ability to hire, retain and motivate current and prospective employees would be harmed, the result of which could negatively impact our business operations. we are currently implementing upgrades to key internal it systems, and problems with the design or implementation of these systems could interfere with our business and operations. we have initiated a project to upgrade certain key internal it systems, including our company-wide human resources management system and our enterprise resource planning ( erp ) system. we have invested, and will continue to invest, significant capital and human resources in the design and implementation of these systems, which may be disruptive to our underlying business. any disruptions or delays in the design and implementation of the new systems, particularly any disruptions or delays that impact our operations, could adversely affect our ability to process customer orders, ship products, provide services and support to our customers, bill and track our customers, fulfill contractual obligations, file sec reports in a timely manner and otherwise run our business. even if we do not encounter these adverse effects, the design and implementation of these new systems may be much more costly than we anticipated. if we are unable to successfully design and implement these new systems as planned, our financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be negatively impacted. litigation or claims regarding intellectual property rights may be time consuming, expensive and require a significant amount of resources to prosecute, defend or make our products non-infringing. third parties have asserted and may in the future assert claims or initiate litigation related to patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights to technologies and related standards that are relevant to our products. the asserted claims and/or initiated litigation may include claims against us or our manufacturers, suppliers or customers, alleging infringement of their proprietary rights with respect to our products. regardless of the merit of these claims, they have been and can be time-consuming, result in costly litigation and may require us to develop non-infringing technologies or enter into license agreements. furthermore, because of the potential for high awards of damages or injunctive relief that are not necessarily predictable, even arguably unmeritorious claims may be settled for significant amounts of money. if any infringement or other intellectual property claim made against us by any third-party is successful, if we are required to settle litigation for significant amounts of money, or if we fail to develop non-infringing technology or license required proprietary rights on commercially reasonable terms and conditions, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. 21 table of contents we are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates which could negatively affect our financial results and cash flows. because a majority of our business is conducted outside the united states, we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. these fluctuations could have a material adverse impact on our financial results and cash flows. our sales and costs of revenues are primarily denominated in u.s. dollars. our operating expenses are denominated in u.s. dollars as well as other foreign currencies including the british pound, the euro, indian rupee, and japanese yen, related to our operations outside of the united states. an increase in the value of the u.s. dollar could increase the real cost to our customers of our products in those markets outside the united states where we sell in u.s. dollars, and a weakened dollar could increase the cost of local operating expenses and procurement of raw materials to the extent we must purchase components in foreign currencies. a decrease in the value of the u.s. dollar could also increase the real cost to us of our expenses in countries outside the united states. currently, we hedge only those currency exposures associated with certain assets and liabilities denominated in nonfunctional currencies and periodically will hedge anticipated foreign currency operating expenses. the hedging activities undertaken by us are intended to partially offset the impact of currency fluctuations. if our attempts to hedge against these risks are not successful, our net income could be adversely impacted. we are required to expense equity compensation given to our employees, which has reduced our reported earnings, will significantly harm our operating results in future periods and may reduce our stock price and our ability to effectively utilize equity compensation to attract and retain employees. we historically have used stock options and other equity awards as a significant component of our employee compensation program in order to align employees interests with the interests of our stockholders, encourage employee retention, and provide competitive compensation packages. the financial accounting standards board has adopted changes that require companies to record a charge to earnings for employee stock option grants and other equity incentives. we adopted this standard effective january 1, 2006. by causing us to record significantly increased compensation costs, such accounting changes have reduced, and will continue to reduce, our reported earnings and will significantly harm our operating results in future periods. these factors may require us to reduce the availability and amount of equity incentives provided to employees, which may make it more difficult for us to attract, retain and motivate key personnel. moreover, if securities analysts, institutional investors and other investors adopt financial models that include stock option expense in their primary analysis of our financial results, our stock price could decline as a result of reliance on these models with higher expense calculations. each of these results could materially and adversely affect our business. matters related to the investigation into our historical stock option granting practices and the restatement of our financial statements may result in additional litigation, regulatory proceedings and government enforcement actions. our historical stock option granting practices and the restatement of our financial statements have exposed us to greater risks associated with litigation, regulatory proceedings and government enforcement actions. for more information regarding our current litigation and related inquiries, please see note 8 of notes to consolidated financial statements under the heading legal proceedings as well as the other risk factors related to litigation set forth in this section. we have provided the results of our internal review and independent investigation to the securities and exchange commission ( sec ) and the united states attorney office for the northern district of california, and in that regard we have responded to formal and informal requests for documents and additional information. in august 2007, we announced that we entered into a settlement agreement with the sec in connection with our historical stock option granting practices in which we consented to a permanent injunction against any future violations of the antifraud, reporting, books-and-records and internal control provisions of the federal securities laws. this settlement concludes the sec formal investigation of the company with respect to this matter. no assurance can be given regarding the outcomes from the current litigation or other possible actions relating to our past stock option practices. the resolution of these matters will be time consuming, expensive, and may distract management from the conduct of our business. furthermore, if we are subject to adverse findings in 22 table of contents litigation, we could be required to pay damages or penalties or have other remedies imposed, which could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, while we believe that we have made appropriate judgments in determining the correct measurement dates for our stock option grants, the sec may disagree with the manner in which we accounted for and reported, or did not report, the corresponding financial impact. accordingly, there is a risk that we may have to further restate our prior financial statements, amend prior filings with the sec, or take other actions not currently contemplated. if we fail to adequately evolve our financial and managerial control and reporting systems and processes, our ability to manage and grow our business will be negatively affected. our ability to successfully offer our products and implement our business plan in a rapidly evolving market depends upon an effective planning and management process. we will need to continue to improve our financial and managerial control and our reporting systems and procedures in order to manage our business effectively in the future. if we fail to continue to implement improved systems and processes, our ability to manage our business and results of operations may be negatively affected. our success depends upon our ability to effectively plan and manage our resources and restructure our business through rapidly fluctuating economic and market conditions. our ability to successfully offer our products and services in a rapidly evolving market requires an effective planning, forecasting, and management process to enable us to effectively scale our business and adjust our business in response to fluctuating market opportunities and conditions. in periods of market expansion, we have increased investment in our business by, for example, increasing headcount and increasing our investment in research and development and other parts of our business. conversely, during 2001 and 2002, in response to downward trending industry and market conditions, we restructured our business and reduced our workforce. many of our expenses, such as real estate expenses, cannot be rapidly or easily adjusted as a result of fluctuations in our business or numbers of employees. moreover, rapid changes in the size of our workforce could adversely affect the ability to develop and deliver products and services as planned or impair our ability to realize our current or future business objectives. our ability to develop, market and sell products could be harmed if we are unable to retain or hire key personnel. our future success depends upon our ability to recruit and retain the services of executive, engineering, sales, marketing and support personnel. the supply of highly qualified individuals, in particular engineers in very specialized technical areas, or sales people specializing in the service provider and enterprise markets, is limited and competition for such individuals is intense. none of our officers or key employees is bound by an employment agreement for any specific term. the loss of the services of any of our key employees, the inability to attract or retain personnel in the future or delays in hiring required personnel, particularly engineers and sales people, and the complexity and time involved in replacing or training new employees, could delay the development and introduction of new products, and negatively impact our ability to market, sell or support our products. we sell our products to customers that use those products to build networks and ip infrastructure and, if the demand for network and ip systems does not continue to grow, then our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. a substantial portion of our business and revenue depends on the growth of secure ip infrastructure and on the deployment of our products by customers that depend on the continued growth of ip services. as a result of changes in the economy and capital spending or the building of network capacity in excess of demand, all of which have in the past particularly affected telecommunications service providers, spending on ip infrastructure can vary, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. in addition, a number of our existing customers are evaluating the build out of their next generation network, or ngn. during the decision making period when the customers are determining the design of those networks and the selection of the equipment they will use in 23 table of contents those networks, such customers may greatly reduce or suspend their spending on secure ip infrastructure. such pauses in purchases can make it more difficult to predict revenues from such customers, can cause fluctuations in the level of spending by these customers and, even where our products are ultimately selected, can have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. the long sales and implementation cycles for our products, as well as our expectation that some customers will sporadically place large orders with short lead times, may cause our revenues and operating results to vary significantly from quarter to quarter. a customer decision to purchase certain of our products involves a significant commitment of its resources and a lengthy evaluation and product qualification process. as a result, the sales cycle may be lengthy. in particular, customers making critical decisions regarding the design and implementation of large or next-generation networks may engage in very lengthy procurement processes that may delay or impact expected future orders. throughout the sales cycle, we may spend considerable time educating and providing information to prospective customers regarding the use and benefits of our products. even after making the decision to purchase, customers may deploy our products slowly and deliberately. timing of deployment can vary widely and depends on the skill set of the customer, the size of the network deployment, the complexity of the customer network environment and the degree of hardware and operating system configuration necessary to deploy the products. customers with large networks usually expand their networks in large increments on a periodic basis. accordingly, we may receive purchase orders for significant dollar amounts on an irregular basis. these long cycles, as well as our expectation that customers will tend to sporadically place large orders with short lead times, may cause revenues and operating results to vary significantly and unexpectedly from quarter to quarter. integration of past acquisitions and future acquisitions could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition and stock price and may dilute the ownership of our stockholders. we have made, and may continue to make, acquisitions in order to enhance our business. in 2005 we completed the acquisitions of five private companies. acquisitions involve numerous risks, including problems combining the purchased operations, technologies or products, unanticipated costs, diversion of management attention from our core businesses, adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers, risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience and potential loss of key employees. there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully integrate any businesses, products, technologies or personnel that we might acquire. the integration of businesses that we have acquired has been, and will continue to be, a complex, time consuming and expensive process. acquisitions may also require us to issue common stock that dilutes the ownership of our current stockholders, assume liabilities, record goodwill and non-amortizable intangible assets that will be subject to impairment testing on a regular basis and potential periodic impairment charges, incur amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets, and incur large and immediate write-offs and restructuring and other related expenses, all of which could harm our operating results and financial condition. in addition, if we fail in our integration efforts with respect to our acquisitions and are unable to efficiently operate as a combined organization utilizing common information and communication systems, operating procedures, financial controls and human resources practices, our business and financial condition may be adversely affected. our products are highly technical and if they contain undetected errors, our business could be adversely affected and we might have to defend lawsuits or pay damages in connection with any alleged or actual failure of our products and services. our products are highly technical and complex, are critical to the operation of many networks and, in the case of our security products, provide and monitor network security and may protect valuable information. our products have contained and may contain one or more undetected errors, defects or security vulnerabilities. some errors in our products may only be discovered after a product has been installed and used by end customers. any errors or security vulnerabilities discovered in our products after commercial release could result in loss of revenues or delay in revenue recognition, loss of customers and increased service and warranty cost, any of which could adversely 24 table of contents affect our business and results of operations. in addition, we could face claims for product liability, tort or breach of warranty. defending a lawsuit, regardless of its merit, is costly and may divert management attention. in addition, if our business liability insurance coverage is inadequate or future coverage is unavailable on acceptable terms or at all, our financial condition could be harmed. a breach of network security could harm public perception of our security products, which could cause us to lose revenues. if an actual or perceived breach of network security occurs in the network of a customer of our security products, regardless of whether the breach is attributable to our products, the market perception of the effectiveness of our products could be harmed. this could cause us to lose current and potential end customers or cause us to lose current and potential value-added resellers and distributors. because the techniques used by computer hackers to access or sabotage networks change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques. if our products do not interoperate with our customers networks, installations will be delayed or cancelled and could harm our business. our products are designed to interface with our customers existing networks, each of which have different specifications and utilize multiple protocol standards and products from other vendors. many of our customers networks contain multiple generations of products that have been added over time as these networks have grown and evolved. our products will be required to interoperate with many or all of the products within these networks as well as future products in order to meet our customers requirements. if we find errors in the existing software or defects in the hardware used in our customers networks, we may have to modify our software or hardware to fix or overcome these errors so that our products will interoperate and scale with the existing software and hardware, which could be costly and negatively impact our operating results. in addition, if our products do not interoperate with those of our customers networks, demand for our products could be adversely affected or orders for our products could be cancelled. this could hurt our operating results, damage our reputation and seriously harm our business and prospects. governmental regulations affecting the import or export of products could negatively affect our revenues. the united states and various other governments have imposed controls, export license requirements and restrictions on the import or export of some technologies, especially encryption technology. in addition, from time to time, governmental agencies have proposed additional regulation of encryption technology, such as requiring the escrow and governmental recovery of private encryption keys. governmental regulation of encryption technology and regulation of imports or exports, or our failure to obtain required import or export approval for our products, could harm our international and domestic sales and adversely affect our revenues. due to the global nature of our operations, economic or social conditions or changes in a particular country or region could adversely affect our sales or increase our costs and expenses, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition. we conduct significant sales and customer support operations directly and indirectly through our distributors and value-added resellers in countries throughout the world and also depend on the operations of our contract manufacturers and suppliers that are located inside and outside of the united states. in addition, our research and development operations are conducted in the united states as well as other countries. our future results could be materially adversely affected by a variety of uncontrollable and changing factors including, among others, political or social unrest, natural disasters, epidemic disease, war, or economic instability in a specific country or region, trade protection measures and other regulatory requirements which may affect our ability to import or export our products from various countries, service provider and government spending patterns affected by political considerations and difficulties in staffing and managing international operations. any or all of these factors could have a material adverse impact on our revenue, costs, expenses, results of operations and financial condition. 25 table of contents our products incorporate and rely upon licensed third-party technology and if licenses of third-party technology do not continue to be available to us or become very expensive, our revenues and ability to develop and introduce new products could be adversely affected. we integrate licensed third-party technology into certain of our products. from time to time, we may be required to license additional technology from third parties to develop new products or product enhancements. third-party licenses may not be available or continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms. our inability to maintain or re-license any third-party licenses required in our products or our inability to obtain third-party licenses necessary to develop new products and product enhancements, could require us to obtain substitute technology of lower quality or performance standards or at a greater cost, any of which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to risks arising from our international operations. we derive a majority of our revenues from our international operations, and we plan to continue expanding our business in international markets in the future. as a result of our international operations, we are affected by economic, regulatory and political conditions in foreign countries, including changes in it spending generally, the imposition of government controls, changes or limitations in trade protection laws, unfavorable changes in tax treaties or laws, natural disasters, labor unrest, earnings expatriation restrictions, misappropriation of intellectual property, acts of terrorism and continued unrest in many regions and other factors, which could have a material impact on our international revenues and operations. in particular, in some countries we may experience reduced intellectual property protection. moreover, local laws and customs in many countries differ significantly from those in the united states. in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common for others to engage in business practices that are prohibited by our internal policies and procedures or united states regulations applicable to us. although we implement policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws and policies, there can be no assurance that all of our employees, contractors and agents will not take actions in violations of them. violations of laws or key control policies by our employees, contractors or agents could result in financial reporting problems, fines, penalties, or prohibition on the importation or exportation of our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business. while we believe that we currently have adequate internal control over financial reporting, we are exposed to risks from legislation requiring companies to evaluate those internal controls. section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 requires our management to report on, and our independent auditors to attest to, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. we have an ongoing program to perform the system and process evaluation and testing necessary to comply with these requirements. we have and will continue to incur significant expenses and devote management resources to section 404 compliance on an ongoing basis. in the event that our chief executive officer, chief financial officer or independent registered public accounting firm determine in the future that our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective as defined under section 404, investor perceptions may be adversely affected and could cause a decline in the market price of our stock. regulation of the telecommunications industry could harm our operating results and future prospects. the telecommunications industry is highly regulated and our business and financial condition could be adversely affected by changes in the regulations relating to the telecommunications industry. currently, there are few laws or regulations that apply directly to access to or commerce on ip networks. we could be adversely affected by regulation of ip networks and commerce in any country where we operate. such regulations could address matters such as voice over the internet or using internet protocol, encryption technology, and access charges for service providers. in addition, regulations have been adopted with respect to environmental matters, such as the waste electrical and electronic equipment ( weee ) and restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment ( rohs ) regulations adopted by the european union, as well as regulations prohibiting government entities from purchasing security products that do not meet specified local certification criteria. compliance with such regulations may be costly and time-consuming for us and our suppliers and partners. the adoption and implementation of such regulations could decrease demand for our products, and at 26 table of contents the same time could increase the cost of building and selling our products as well as impact our ability to ship products into affected areas and recognize revenue in a timely manner, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. our reported financial results could suffer if there is an additional impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets with indefinite lives. we are required to annually test, and review on an interim basis, our goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives, including the goodwill associated with past acquisitions and any future acquisitions, to determine if impairment has occurred. if such assets are deemed impaired, an impairment loss equal to the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the fair value of the assets would be recognized. this would result in incremental expenses for that quarter which would reduce any earnings or increase any loss for the period in which the impairment was determined to have occurred. for example, such impairment could occur if the market value of our common stock falls below certain levels for a sustained period or if the portions of our business related to companies we have acquired fail to grow at expected rates or decline. in the second quarter of 2006, this impairment evaluation resulted in a reduction of $1,280.0 million to the carrying value of goodwill on our balance sheet for the slt segment, primarily due to the decline in our market capitalization that occurred over a period of approximately nine months prior to the impairment review and, to a lesser extent, a decrease in the forecasted future cash flows used in the income approach. declines in our stock prices in the future as well as any marked decline in our level of revenues or gross margins increase the risk that goodwill and intangible assets may become impaired in future periods. we cannot accurately predict the amount and timing of any impairment of assets. changes in effective tax rates or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income or other tax returns could adversely affect our results. our future effective tax rates could be subject to volatility or adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated earnings in countries where we have higher statutory rates; by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; by expiration of or lapses in the r d tax credit laws; by transfer pricing adjustments related to certain acquisitions including the license of acquired intangibles under our intercompany r d cost sharing arrangement; by tax effects of stock-based compensation; by costs related to intercompany restructurings; or by changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles, or interpretations thereof. in addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the internal revenue service and other tax authorities. we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. there can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. the investment of our cash balance and our investments in government and corporate debt securities are subject to risks which may cause losses and affect the liquidity of these investments. at december 31, 2007, we had $1,716.1 million in cash and cash equivalents and $291.1 million in investments in government and corporate debt securities. we have invested these amounts in u.s. government securities, corporate notes and bonds, commercial paper, and money market funds meeting certain criteria. certain of these investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks, which may be exacerbated by u.s. sub-prime mortgage defaults that have affected various sectors of the financial markets and caused credit and liquidity issues. these market risks associated with our investment portfolio may have a negative adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. uninsured losses could harm our operating results. we self-insure against many business risks and expenses, such as intellectual property litigation and our medical benefit programs, where we believe we can adequately self-insure against the anticipated exposure and risk or where insurance is either not deemed cost-effective or is not available. we also maintain a program of insurance coverage for various types of property, casualty, and other risks. we place our insurance coverage with various carriers in numerous jurisdictions. the types and amounts of insurance that we obtain vary from time to time and 27 table of contents from location to location, depending on availability, cost, and our decisions with respect to risk retention. the policies are subject to deductibles, policy limits and exclusions that result in our retention of a level of risk on a self-insurance basis. losses not covered by insurance could be substantial and unpredictable and could adversely affect our results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk 59 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk interest rate risk we maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types and maturities. in addition, a portion of our cash and marketable securities are held in non-u.s. domiciled countries. these securities are generally classified as available-for-sale and, consequently, are recorded on our consolidated balance sheet at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). 59 table of contents at any time, a rise in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our investment portfolio. conversely, declines in interest rates could have a material impact on interest earnings of our investment portfolio. we do not currently hedge these interest rate exposures. the following tables present hypothetical changes in fair value of the financial instruments held at december 31, 2007 and 2006 that are sensitive to changes in interest rates (in millions): valuation of securities given an interest fair value as of valuation of securities given an interest rate decrease of x basis points (bps) december 31, rate increase of x bps (150 bps) (100 bps) (50 bps) 2007 50 bps 100 bps 150 bps government treasury and agencies $ 68.4 $ 68.1 $ 67.7 $ 67.4 $ 67.0 $ 66.7 $ 66.3 corporate bonds and notes 108.3 107.5 106.7 105.9 105.1 104.3 103.5 other 370.3 370.1 370.0 369.9 369.7 369.6 369.5 total $ 547.0 $ 545.7 $ 544.4 $ 543.2 $ 541.8 $ 540.6 $ 539.3 valuation of securities given an interest fair value as of valuation of securities given an interest rate decrease of x basis points (bps) december 31, rate increase of x bps (150 bps) (100 bps) (50 bps) 2006 50 bps 100 bps 150 bps government treasury and agencies $ 297.5 $ 296.0 $ 294.5 $ 293.0 $ 291.6 $ 290.1 $ 288.6 corporate bonds and notes 520.4 517.7 515.0 512.3 509.6 506.8 504.1 asset backed securities and other 333.9 333.4 332.9 332.4 331.9 331.4 331.0 total $ 1,151.8 $ 1,147.1 $ 1,142.4 $ 1,137.7 $ 1,133.1 $ 1,128.3 $ 1,123.7 these instruments are not leveraged and are held for purposes other than trading. the modeling technique used measures the changes in fair value arising from selected potential changes in interest rates. market changes reflect immediate hypothetical parallel shifts in the yield curve of plus or minus 50 basis points (bps), 100 bps and 150 bps, which are representative of the historical movements in the federal funds rate. foreign currency risk and foreign exchange forward contracts periodically, we use derivatives to hedge against fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. we do not enter into derivatives for speculative or trading purposes. we use foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate transaction gains and losses generated by certain foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities. these derivatives are carried at fair value with changes recorded in other income (expense) in the same period as the changes in the fair value from the re-measurement of the underlying assets and liabilities. these foreign exchange contracts have maturities between one and two months. our sales and costs of revenues are primarily denominated in u.s. dollars. our operating expenses are denominated in u.s. dollars as well as other foreign currencies including the british pound, the euro, indian rupee, and japanese yen. periodically, we use foreign currency forward and/or option contracts to hedge certain forecasted foreign currency transactions relating to operating expenses. these derivatives are designated as cash flow hedges and have maturities of less than one year. the effective portion of the derivative gain or loss is initially reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income and, upon occurrence of the forecasted transaction, is subsequently reclassified into the consolidated statements of operations line item to which the hedged transaction relates. we record any ineffectiveness of the hedging instruments, which was immaterial during the years ended december 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, in other income (expense) on our consolidated statements of operations. the increase in operating expenses including research and development, sales and marketing, as well as general and administrative expenses, due to foreign currency fluctuations, net of hedging, was approximately 2% in 2007. 60 table of contents equity price risk our portfolio of publicly-traded equity securities is inherently exposed to equity price risk as the stock market fluctuates. we monitor our equity investments for impairment on a periodic basis. in the event that the carrying value of the equity investments exceeds its fair value, and we determine the decline in value to be other than temporary, we reduce the carrying value to its current fair value. we do not purchase our equity securities with the intent to use them for trading or speculative purposes. the aggregate fair value of our marketable equity securities was $8.6 million and $0.8 million as of december 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. a hypothetical 30% adverse change in the stock prices of our portfolio of publicly-traded equity securities would result in an immaterial loss. in addition to publicly-traded securities, we have also invested in privately-held companies. these investments are carried at cost. the aggregate cost of our investments in privately-held companies was $23.3 million and $20.4 million as of december 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. 61 table of contentsrisk factors 14 risk factors factors that may affect future results investments in equity securities of publicly traded companies involve significant risks. the market price of our stock has historically reflected a higher multiple of expected future earnings than many other companies. accordingly, even small changes in investor expectations for our future growth and earnings, whether as a result of actual or rumored financial or operating results, changes in the mix of the products and services sold, acquisitions, industry changes or other factors, could trigger, and have triggered, significant fluctuations in the market price of our common stock. investors in our securities should carefully consider all of the relevant factors, including, but not limited to, the following factors, that could affect our stock price. our quarterly results are inherently unpredictable and subject to substantial fluctuations, and, as a result, we may fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. our revenues and operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control and any of which may cause our stock price to fluctuate. the factors that may affect the unpredictability of our quarterly results include, but are not limited to: limited visibility into customer spending plans, changes in the mix of products sold, changing market conditions, including current and potential customer consolidation, competition, customer concentration, long sales and implementation cycles, regional economic and political conditions and seasonality. for example, many companies in our industry experience adverse seasonal fluctuations in customer spending patterns, particularly in the first and third quarters. as a result, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of operating results are not necessarily a good indication of what our future performance will be. it is likely that in some future quarters, our operating results may be below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, in which case the price of our common stock may decline. such a decline could occur, and has occurred in the past, even when we have met our publicly stated revenues and/or earnings guidance. fluctuating economic conditions make it difficult to predict revenues for a particular period and a shortfall in revenues or increase in costs of production may harm our operating results. our revenues depend significantly on general economic conditions and the demand for products in the markets in which we compete. economic weakness, customer financial difficulties, and constrained spending on network expansion have previously resulted, and may in the future result, in decreased revenues and earnings and could negatively impact our ability to forecast and manage our contract manufacturer relationships. in addition, recent turmoil in the global financial markets and associated economic weakness, or recession, particularly in the united states, as well as turmoil in the geopolitical environment in many parts of the world, may continue to put pressure on global economic conditions, which could lead to reduced demand for our products and/or higher costs of production. economic downturns may also lead to longer collection cycles for payments due from our customers, an increase in bad debts, restructuring initiatives and associated expenses, and impairment of investments. furthermore, the recent disruption in worldwide credit markets may adversely impact the ability of our customers to adequately fund their expected capital expenditures, which could lead to delays or cancellations of planned purchases of our products or services. in addition, our operating expenses are largely based on anticipated revenue trends and a high percentage of our expenses are, and will continue to be, fixed in the short-term. uncertainty about 14 table of contents future economic conditions makes it difficult to forecast operating results and to make decisions about future investments. future or continued economic weakness, customer financial difficulties, increases in costs of production, and reductions in spending on network maintenance and expansion could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and consequently on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. a limited number of our customers comprise a significant portion of our revenues and any decrease in revenues from these customers could have an adverse effect on our net revenues and operating results. a substantial majority of our net revenues depend on sales to a limited number of customers and distribution partners. for example, nsn and its predecessor companies contributed more than 10% of revenues in the fiscal years ended 2007 and 2006. this customer concentration increases the risk of quarterly fluctuations in our revenues and operating results. changes in the business requirements, vendor selection, or purchasing behavior of our key customers or potential new customers could significantly decrease sales to such customers. in addition, the recent disruption in worldwide credit markets may adversely impact the ability of our customers to adequately fund their expected capital expenditures, which could lead to delays or cancellations of planned purchases of our products or services. any of these factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition, in recent years there has been consolidation in the telecommunications industry (for example, the acquisitions of at t inc., mci, inc., and bellsouth corporation) and consolidation among the large vendors of telecommunications equipment and services (for example, the combination of alcatel and lucent, the joint venture of nsn, and the acquisition of redback by ericsson). such consolidation may cause our customers who are involved in these acquisitions to suspend or indefinitely reduce their purchases of our products or have other unforeseen consequences that could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. if we receive infrastructure product orders late in a quarter, we may be unable to recognize revenue for these orders in the same period, which could adversely affect our quarterly revenues. generally, our infrastructure products are not stocked by distributors or resellers due to their cost, complexity, and configurations required by our customers, and we generally build such products as orders are received. if orders for these products are received late in any quarter, we may not be able to build, ship, and recognize revenue for these orders in the same period, which could adversely affect our ability to meet our expected revenues for such quarter. telecommunications companies and other large companies generally require more onerous terms and conditions of their vendors. as we seek to sell more products to such customers, we may be required to agree to terms and conditions that may have an adverse effect on our business or ability to recognize revenues. telecommunications service provider companies and other large companies, because of their size, generally have greater purchasing power and, accordingly, have requested and received more favorable terms, which often translate into more onerous terms and conditions for their vendors. as we seek to sell more products to this class of customer, we may be required to agree to such terms and conditions, which may include terms that affect the timing of our ability to recognize revenue and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. consolidation among such large customers can further increase their buying power and ability to require onerous terms. for example, many customers in this class have purchased products from other vendors who promised certain functionality and failed to deliver such functionality and/or had products that caused problems or outages in the networks of these customers. as a result, this class of customers may request additional features from us and require substantial penalties for failure to deliver such features or may require substantial penalties for any network outages that may be caused by our products. these additional requests and penalties, if we are required to agree to them, may affect our ability to recognize the revenues from such sales, which may negatively affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. for example, in april 2006, we announced that we would be required to defer a large amount of revenue from a customer due to the contractual obligations required by that customer. for arrangements with multiple elements, vendor specific objective evidence of fair value of the undelivered element is required in order to separate the components and to account for elements of the arrangement separately. 15 table of contents vendor specific objective evidence of fair value is based on the price charged when the element is sold separately. however, customers may require terms and conditions that make it more difficult or impossible for us to maintain vendor specific objective evidence of fair value for the undelivered elements to a similar group of customers, the result of which could cause us to defer the entire arrangement fees for a similar group of customers (product, maintenance, professional services, etc.) and recognize revenue only when the last element is delivered, or if the only undelivered element is maintenance revenue, we would recognize revenue ratably over the contractual maintenance period, which is generally one year but could be substantially longer. our ability to process orders and ship products in a timely manner is dependent in part on our business systems and performance of the systems and processes of third parties such as our contract manufacturers, suppliers, or other partners, as well as interfaces with the systems of such third parties. if our systems, the systems and processes of those third parties, or the interfaces between them experience delays or fail, our business processes and our ability to build and ship products could be impacted, and our financial results could be harmed. some of our business processes depend upon our information technology systems ( it ), the systems and processes of third parties, and on interfaces with the systems of third parties. for example, our order entry system feeds information into the systems of our contract manufacturers, which enable them to build and ship our products. if those systems fail or are interrupted, our processes may function at a diminished level or not at all. this could negatively impact our ability to ship products or otherwise operate our business, and our financial results could be harmed. for example, although it did not adversely affect our shipments, an earthquake in late december of 2006 disrupted communications with china, where a significant part of our manufacturing occurs. we also rely upon the performance of the systems and processes of our contract manufacturers to build and ship our products. if those systems and processes experience interruption or delay, our ability to build and ship our products in a timely manner may be harmed. for example, as we have expanded our contract manufacturing base to china, we have experienced instances where our contract manufacturer was not able to ship products in the time periods expected by us. if we are not able to ship our products or if product shipments are delayed, our ability to recognize revenue in a timely manner for those products would be affected and our financial results could be harmed. if we fail to accurately predict our manufacturing requirements, we could incur additional costs or experience manufacturing delays which would harm our business. we provide demand forecasts to our contract manufacturers. if we overestimate our requirements, our contract manufacturers may assess charges, or we may have liabilities for excess inventory, each of which could negatively affect our gross margins. conversely, because lead times for required materials and components vary significantly and depend on factors such as the specific supplier, contract terms, and the demand for each component at a given time, if we underestimate our requirements, our contract manufacturers may have inadequate time or materials and components required to produce our products, which could increase costs or could delay or interrupt manufacturing of our products and result in delays in shipments and deferral or loss of revenues. we are dependent on sole source and limited source suppliers for several key components, which makes us susceptible to shortages or price fluctuations in our supply chain, and we may face increased challenges in supply chain management in the future. with the current demand for electronic products, component shortages are possible, and the predictability of the availability of such components may be limited. growth in our business and the economy is likely to create greater pressures on us and our suppliers to accurately project overall component demand and to establish optimal component levels. if shortages or delays persist, the price of these components may increase, or the components may not be available at all. we may not be able to secure enough components at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build new products in a timely manner, and our revenues and gross margins could suffer until other sources can be developed. for example, from time to time, including the first quarter of 2008, we have experienced component shortages that resulted in delays of product shipments. we currently purchase numerous key components, including asics, from single or limited sources. the development of alternate sources for those components 16 table of contents is time consuming, difficult, and costly. in addition, the lead times associated with certain components are lengthy and preclude rapid changes in quantities and delivery schedules. in the event of a component shortage or supply interruption from these suppliers, we may not be able to develop alternate or second sources in a timely manner. if, as a result, we are unable to buy these components in quantities sufficient to meet our requirements on a timely basis, we will not be able to deliver product to our customers, which would seriously affect present and future sales, which would, in turn, adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition, the development, licensing, or acquisition of new products in the future may increase the complexity of supply chain management. failure to effectively manage the supply of key components and products would adversely affect our business. we are dependent on contract manufacturers with whom we do not have long-term supply contracts, and changes to those relationships, expected or unexpected, may result in delays or disruptions that could cause us to lose revenues and damage our customer relationships. we depend on independent contract manufacturers (each of which is a third-party manufacturer for numerous companies) to manufacture our products. although we have contracts with our contract manufacturers, those contracts do not require them to manufacture our products on a long-term basis in any specific quantity or at any specific price. in addition, it is time consuming and costly to qualify and implement additional contract manufacturer relationships. therefore, if we should fail to effectively manage our contract manufacturer relationships or if one or more of them should experience delays, disruptions, or quality control problems in our manufacturing operations, or if we had to change or add additional contract manufacturers or contract manufacturing sites, our ability to ship products to our customers could be delayed. also, the addition of manufacturing locations or contract manufacturers would increase the complexity of our supply chain management. moreover, an increasing portion of our manufacturing is performed in china and other countries and is therefore subject to risks associated with doing business in other countries. each of these factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we expect gross margin to vary over time, and our recent level of product gross margin may not be sustainable. our product gross margins will vary from quarter to quarter, and the recent level of gross margins may not be sustainable and may be adversely affected in the future by numerous factors, including product mix shifts, increased price competition in one or more of the markets in which we compete, increases in material or labor costs, excess product component or obsolescence charges from our contract manufacturers, increased costs due to changes in component pricing or charges incurred due to component holding periods if our forecasts do not accurately anticipate product demand, warranty related issues, or our introduction of new products or entry into new markets with different pricing and cost structures. the long sales and implementation cycles for our products, as well as our expectation that some customers will sporadically place large orders with short lead times, may cause our revenues and operating results to vary significantly from quarter to quarter. a customer decision to purchase certain of our products involves a significant commitment of its resources and a lengthy evaluation and product qualification process. as a result, the sales cycle may be lengthy. in particular, customers making critical decisions regarding the design and implementation of large or next-generation networks may engage in very lengthy procurement processes that may delay or impact expected future orders. throughout the sales cycle, we may spend considerable time educating and providing information to prospective customers regarding the use and benefits of our products. even after making the decision to purchase, customers may deploy our products slowly and deliberately. timing of deployment can vary widely and depends on the skill set of the customer, the size of the network deployment, the complexity of the customer network environment, and the degree of hardware and operating system configuration necessary to deploy the products. customers with large networks usually expand their networks in large increments on a periodic basis. accordingly, we may receive purchase orders for significant dollar amounts on an irregular basis. these long cycles, as well as our expectation 17 table of contents that customers will tend to sporadically place large orders with short lead times, may cause revenues and operating results to vary significantly and unexpectedly from quarter to quarter. we are a party to lawsuits, which are costly to investigate and defend and, if determined adversely to us, could require us to pay damages or prevent us from taking certain actions, any or all of which could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we and certain of our current and former officers and current and former members of our board of directors are subject to various lawsuits. for example, we have been served with lawsuits related to the alleged backdating of stock options and other related matters, a description of which can be found in note 7 commitments and contingencies in notes to consolidated financial statements in item 8 of part ii of this annual report on form 10-k, under the heading legal proceedings. there can be no assurance that these or any actions that have been or may be brought against us will be resolved in our favor. regardless of whether they are resolved in our favor, these lawsuits are, and any future lawsuits to which we may become a party will likely be, expensive and time consuming to investigate, defend, settle, and/or resolve. such costs of investigation and defense, as well as any losses resulting from these claims or settlement of these claims, could significantly increase our expenses and could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition, we are party to a lawsuit which seeks to enjoin us from granting equity awards under our 2006 equity incentive plan (the 2006 plan ), as well as to invalidate all awards granted under such plan to date. the 2006 plan is the only active plan under which we currently grant stock options and restricted stock units to our employees. if this lawsuit is not resolved in our favor, we may be prevented from using the 2006 plan to provide these equity awards to recruit new employees or to compensate existing employees, which would put us at a significant disadvantage to other companies that compete for workers in high technology industries such as ours. accordingly, our ability to hire, retain, and motivate current and prospective employees would be harmed, the result of which could negatively impact our business operations. we sell our products to customers that use those products to build networks and ip infrastructure and, if the demand for network and ip systems does not continue to grow, then our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. a substantial portion of our business and revenues depends on the growth of secure ip infrastructure and on the deployment of our products by customers that depend on the continued growth of ip services. as a result of changes in the economy and capital spending or the building of network capacity in excess of demand, all of which have in the past particularly affected telecommunications service providers, spending on ip infrastructure can vary, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition, a number of our existing customers are evaluating the build out of their ngns. during the decision making period when the customers are determining the design of those networks and the selection of the equipment they will use in those networks, such customers may greatly reduce or suspend their spending on secure ip infrastructure. such pauses in purchases can make it more difficult to predict revenues from such customers, can cause fluctuations in the level of spending by these customers and, even where our products are ultimately selected, can have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. if we do not successfully anticipate market needs and develop products and product enhancements that meet those needs, or if those products do not gain market acceptance, we may not be able to compete effectively and our ability to generate revenues will suffer. we cannot guarantee that we will be able to anticipate future market needs or be able to develop new products or product enhancements to meet such needs or to meet them in a timely manner. if we fail to anticipate market requirements or to develop and introduce new products or product enhancements to meet those needs in a timely manner, such failure could substantially decrease or delay market acceptance and sales of our present and future products, which would significantly harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. even if we are able to anticipate, develop, and commercially introduce new products and enhancements, there can be no assurance that new products or enhancements will achieve widespread market acceptance. for example, in the first quarter of 2008, we announced new products designed to address the ethernet switching market, a market in which we had not 18 table of contents had a historical presence. if these new products do not gain market acceptance at a sufficient rate of growth, our ability to meet future financial targets may be adversely affected. any failure of our products to achieve market acceptance could adversely affect our business and financial results. we rely on value-added resellers and distribution partners to sell our products, and disruptions to, or our failure to effectively develop and manage our distribution channel and the processes and procedures that support it could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues from the sale of our products. our future success is highly dependent upon establishing and maintaining successful relationships with a variety of value-added reseller and distribution partners. the majority of our revenues are derived through value-added resellers and distributors, most of which also sell competitors products. our revenues depend in part on the performance of these partners. the loss of or reduction in sales to our value-added resellers or distributors could materially reduce our revenues. for example, in april 2007, our largest customer, siemens, transferred its telecommunications business to a joint venture between siemens and nokia. our competitors may in some cases be effective in providing incentives to current or potential resellers and distributors to favor their products or to prevent or reduce sales of our products. if we fail to maintain relationships with our partners, fail to develop new relationships with value-added resellers and distributors in new markets, or expand the number of distributors and resellers in existing markets, fail to manage, train or motivate existing value-added resellers and distributors effectively or if these partners are not successful in their sales efforts, sales of our products may decrease, and our business, financial condition, and results of operations would suffer. in addition, we recognize a portion of our revenues based on a sell-through model using information provided by our distributors. if those distributors provide us with inaccurate or untimely information, the amount or timing of our revenues could be adversely impacted. further, in order to develop and expand our distribution channel, we must continue to scale and improve our processes and procedures that support it, and those processes and procedures may become increasingly complex and inherently difficult to manage. our failure to successfully manage and develop our distribution channel and the processes and procedures that support it could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues from the sale of our products. we face intense competition that could reduce our revenues and adversely affect our financial results. competition is intense in the markets that we address. the ip infrastructure market has historically been dominated by cisco with other companies such as alcatel-lucent, brocade, ericsson, extreme networks, huawei, and nortel providing products to a smaller segment of the market. in addition, a number of other small public and private companies have products or have announced plans for new products to address the same challenges and markets that our products address. in the slt market, we face intense competition from a broader group of companies including appliance vendors such as cisco, fortinet, f5 networks, nortel, riverbed, and software vendors such as checkpoint. in addition, a number of other small public and private companies have products or have announced plans for new products to address the same challenges and markets that our products address. in addition, actual or speculated consolidation among competitors, or the acquisition of our partners and resellers by competitors, can increase the competitive pressures faced by us. in this regard, alcatel combined with lucent in 2006, and ericsson acquired redback in 2007. a number of our competitors have substantially greater resources and can offer a wider range of products and services for the overall network equipment market than we do. if we are unable to compete successfully against existing and future competitors on the basis of product offerings or price, we could experience a loss in market share and revenues and/or be required to reduce prices, which could reduce our gross margins, and which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 19 table of contents our success depends upon our ability to effectively plan and manage our resources and restructure our business through rapidly fluctuating economic and market conditions. our ability to successfully offer our products and services in a rapidly evolving market requires an effective planning, forecasting, and management process to enable us to effectively scale our business and adjust our business in response to fluctuating market opportunities and conditions. in periods of market expansion, we have increased investment in our business by, for example, increasing headcount and increasing our investment in research and development and other parts of our business. conversely, during 2001 and 2002, in response to downward trending industry and market conditions, we restructured our business and reduced our workforce. many of our expenses, such as real estate expenses, cannot be rapidly or easily adjusted because of fluctuations in our business or numbers of employees. moreover, rapid changes in the size of our workforce could adversely affect the ability to develop and deliver products and services as planned or impair our ability to realize our current or future business objectives. we are currently implementing upgrades to key internal systems and processes, and problems with the design or implementation of these systems and processes could interfere with our business and operations. in 2007, we initiated a project to upgrade certain key internal systems and processes, including our company-wide human resources management system, our customer relationship management ( crm ) system and enterprise resource planning ( erp ) system. we have invested, and will continue to invest, significant capital and human resources in the design and implementation of these systems and processes, which may be disruptive to our underlying business. any disruptions or delays in the design and implementation of the new systems or processes, particularly any disruptions or delays that impact our operations, could adversely affect our ability to process customer orders, ship products, provide service and support to our customers, bill and track our customers, fulfill contractual obligations, record and transfer information in a timely and accurate manner, file sec reports in a timely manner, or otherwise run our business. even if we do not encounter these adverse effects, the design and implementation of these new systems and processes may be much more costly than we anticipated. if we are unable to successfully design and implement these new systems and processes as planned, or if the implementation of these systems and processes is more costly than anticipated, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be negatively impacted. litigation or claims regarding intellectual property rights may be time consuming, expensive and require a significant amount of resources to prosecute, defend, or make our products non-infringing. third parties have asserted and may in the future assert claims or initiate litigation related to patent, copyright, trademark, and other intellectual property rights to technologies and related standards that are relevant to our products. the asserted claims and/or initiated litigation may include claims against us or our manufacturers, suppliers, or customers, alleging infringement of their proprietary rights with respect to our products. regardless of the merit of these claims, they have been and can be time consuming, result in costly litigation, and may require us to develop non-infringing technologies or enter into license agreements. furthermore, because of the potential for high awards of damages or injunctive relief that are not necessarily predictable, even arguably unmeritorious claims may be settled for significant amounts of money. if any infringement or other intellectual property claim made against us by any third party is successful, if we are required to settle litigation for significant amounts of money, or if we fail to develop non-infringing technology or license required proprietary rights on commercially reasonable terms and conditions, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. we are subject to risks arising from our international operations. we derive a majority of our revenues from our international operations, and we plan to continue expanding our business in international markets in the future. as a result of our international operations, we are affected by economic, regulatory, and political conditions in foreign countries, including changes in general it spending, the imposition of government controls, changes or limitations in trade protection laws, unfavorable changes in tax treaties or laws, natural disasters, labor unrest, earnings expatriation restrictions, misappropriation of intellectual property, acts of terrorism, and continued unrest in many regions and other factors, which could have a material 20 table of contents impact on our international revenues and operations. in particular, in some countries, we may experience reduced intellectual property protection. moreover, local laws and customs in many countries differ significantly from those in the united states. in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common for others to engage in business practices that are prohibited by our internal policies and procedures or united states regulations applicable to us. although we implement policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws and policies, there can be no assurance that none of our employees, contractors, and agents will take actions in violation of them. violations of laws or key control policies by our employees, contractors, or agents could result in financial reporting problems, fines, penalties, or prohibition on the importation or exportation of our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business. our financial condition and results of operations could suffer if there is an additional impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets with indefinite lives. we are required to test annually and review on an interim basis, our goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives, including the goodwill associated with past acquisitions and any future acquisitions, to determine if impairment has occurred. if such assets are deemed impaired, an impairment loss equal to the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the fair value of the assets would be recognized. this would result in incremental expenses for that quarter, which would reduce any earnings or increase any loss for the period in which the impairment was determined to have occurred. for example, such impairment could occur if the market value of our common stock falls below certain levels for a sustained period, or if the portions of our business related to companies we have acquired fail to grow at expected rates or decline. in the second quarter of 2006, our impairment evaluation resulted in a reduction of $1,280.0 million to the carrying value of goodwill on our balance sheet for the slt operating segment, primarily due to the decline in our market capitalization that occurred over a period of approximately nine months prior to the impairment review and, to a lesser extent, a decrease in the forecasted future cash flows used in the income approach. recently, the turmoil in credit markets and the broader economy has contributed to extreme price and volume fluctuations in global stock markets that have reduced the market price of many technology company stocks, including ours. further declines in our stock price or the failure of our stock price to recover from previous declines, as well as any marked decline in our level of revenues or gross margins, increase the risk that goodwill and intangible assets may become impaired in future periods. we cannot accurately predict the amount and timing of any impairment of assets. changes in effective tax rates or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income or other tax returns could adversely affect our results. our future effective tax rates could be subject to volatility or adversely affected by: earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated earnings in countries where we have higher statutory rates; by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; by expiration of or lapses in the research and development ( r d ) tax credit laws; by transfer pricing adjustments related to certain acquisitions including the license of acquired intangibles under our intercompany r d cost sharing arrangement; by tax effects of stock-based compensation; by costs related to intercompany restructurings; or by changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles, or interpretations thereof. in addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the internal revenue service ( irs ) and other tax authorities. we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. there can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. because a majority of our business is conducted outside the united states, we face exposure to adverse movements in non-u.s. currency exchange rates. these exposures may change over time as business practices evolve and could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. the majority of our revenues and expenses are transacted in u.s. dollars. we also have some transactions that are denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the british pound, the euro, indian rupee, and japanese yen 21 table of contents related to our sales and service operations outside of the united states. an increase in the value of the u.s. dollar could increase the real cost to our customers of our products in those markets outside the united states in which we sell in u.s. dollars, and a weakened u.s. dollar could increase the cost of local operating expenses and procurement of raw materials to the extent we must purchase components in foreign currencies. currently, we hedge only those currency exposures associated with certain assets and liabilities denominated in nonfunctional currencies and periodically will hedge anticipated foreign currency cash flows. the hedging activities undertaken by us are intended to offset the impact of currency fluctuations on certain nonfunctional currency assets and liabilities. however, no amount of hedging can be effective against all circumstances, including long-term declines in the value of the u.s. dollar. if our attempts to hedge against these risks are not successful, or if long-term declines in the value of the u.s. dollar persist, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted. if we fail to adequately evolve our financial and managerial control and reporting systems and processes, our ability to manage and grow our business will be negatively affected. our ability to successfully offer our products and implement our business plan in a rapidly evolving market depends upon an effective planning and management process. we will need to continue to improve our financial and managerial control and our reporting systems and procedures in order to manage our business effectively in the future. if we fail to continue to implement improved systems and processes, our ability to manage our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be negatively affected. our ability to develop, market, and sell products could be harmed if we are unable to retain or hire key personnel. our future success depends upon our ability to recruit and retain the services of executive, engineering, sales and marketing, and support personnel. the supply of highly qualified individuals, in particular engineers in very specialized technical areas, or sales people specializing in the service provider and enterprise markets, is limited and competition for such individuals is intense. none of our officers or key employees is bound by an employment agreement for any specific term. the loss of the services of any of our key employees, the inability to attract or retain personnel in the future or delays in hiring required personnel, particularly engineers and sales people, and the complexity and time involved in replacing or training new employees, could delay the development and introduction of new products, and negatively impact our ability to market, sell, or support our products. our products are highly technical and if they contain undetected errors, our business could be adversely affected and we may need to defend lawsuits or pay damages in connection with any alleged or actual failure of our products and services. our products are highly technical and complex, are critical to the operation of many networks, and, in the case of our security products, provide and monitor network security and may protect valuable information. our products have contained and may contain one or more undetected errors, defects, or security vulnerabilities. some errors in our products may only be discovered after a product has been installed and used by end-customers. any errors, defects, or security vulnerabilities discovered in our products after commercial release could result in loss of revenues or delay in revenue recognition, loss of customers, loss of future business, and increased service and warranty cost, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition, in the event an error, defect, or vulnerability is attributable to a component supplied by a third-party vendor, we may not be able to recover from the vendor all of the costs of remediation that we may incur. in addition, we could face claims for product liability, tort, or breach of warranty. defending a lawsuit, regardless of its merit, is costly and may divert management attention. in addition, if our business liability insurance coverage is inadequate, or future coverage is unavailable on acceptable terms or at all, our financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. 22 table of contents a breach of network security could harm public perception of our security products, which could cause us to lose revenues. if an actual or perceived breach of network security occurs in the network of a customer of our security products, regardless of whether the breach is attributable to our products, the market perception of the effectiveness of our products could be harmed. this could cause us to lose current and potential end-customers or cause us to lose current and potential value-added resellers and distributors. because the techniques used by computer hackers to access or sabotage networks change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques. if our products do not interoperate with our customers networks, installations will be delayed or cancelled and could harm our business. our products are designed to interface with our customers existing networks, each of which have different specifications and utilize multiple protocol standards and products from other vendors. many of our customers networks contain multiple generations of products that have been added over time as these networks have grown and evolved. our products will be required to interoperate with many or all of the products within these networks as well as future products in order to meet our customers requirements. if we find errors in the existing software or defects in the hardware used in our customers networks, we may need to modify our software or hardware to fix or overcome these errors so that our products will interoperate and scale with the existing software and hardware, which could be costly and negatively affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition, if our products do not interoperate with those of our customers networks, demand for our products could be adversely affected or orders for our products could be cancelled. this could hurt our operating results, damage our reputation, and seriously harm our business and prospects. governmental regulations affecting the import or export of products could negatively affect our revenues. the united states and various foreign governments have imposed controls, export license requirements, and restrictions on the import or export of some technologies, especially encryption technology. in addition, from time to time, governmental agencies have proposed additional regulation of encryption technology, such as requiring the escrow and governmental recovery of private encryption keys. governmental regulation of encryption technology and regulation of imports or exports, or our failure to obtain required import or export approval for our products, could harm our international and domestic sales and adversely affect our revenues. in addition, failure to comply with such regulations could result in penalties, costs, and restrictions on export privileges. integration of past acquisitions and future acquisitions could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition and stock price and may dilute the ownership of our stockholders. we have made, and may continue to make, acquisitions in order to enhance our business. in 2005, we completed the acquisitions of five private companies. acquisitions involve numerous risks, including problems combining the purchased operations, technologies or products, unanticipated costs, diversion of management attention from our core businesses, adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers, risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience, and potential loss of key employees. there can be no assurance that we will be able to integrate successfully any businesses, products, technologies, or personnel that we might acquire. the integration of businesses that we have acquired has been, and will continue to be, a complex, time consuming, and expensive process. acquisitions may also require us to issue common stock that dilutes the ownership of our current stockholders, assume liabilities, record goodwill and amortizable intangible assets that will be subject to impairment testing on a regular basis and potential periodic impairment charges, incur amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets, and incur large and immediate write-offs and restructuring and other related expenses, all of which could harm our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, if we fail in our acquisition integration efforts with respect to our acquisitions and are unable to efficiently operate as a combined organization utilizing common information and communication systems, 23 table of contents operating procedures, financial controls, and human resources practices, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected. due to the global nature of our operations, economic or social conditions or changes in a particular country or region could adversely affect our sales or increase our costs and expenses, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we conduct significant sales and customer support operations directly and indirectly through our distributors and value-added resellers in countries throughout the world and depend on the operations of our contract manufacturers and suppliers that are located inside and outside of the united states. in addition, our research and development and our general and administrative operations are conducted in the united states as well as other countries. accordingly, our future results could be materially adversely affected by a variety of uncontrollable and changing factors including, among others, political or social unrest, natural disasters, epidemic disease, war, or economic instability in a specific country or region, trade protection measures, and other regulatory requirements which may affect our ability to import or export our products from various countries, service provider, and government spending patterns affected by political considerations and difficulties in staffing and managing international operations. any or all of these factors could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our products incorporate and rely upon licensed third-party technology, and if licenses of third-party technology do not continue to be available to us or become very expensive, our revenues and ability to develop and introduce new products could be adversely affected. we integrate licensed third-party technology into certain of our products. from time to time, we may be required to license additional technology from third parties to develop new products or product enhancements. third-party licenses may not be available or continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms. our inability to maintain or re-license any third-party licenses required in our products or our inability to obtain third-party licenses necessary to develop new products and product enhancements, could require us to obtain substitute technology of lower quality or performance standards or at a greater cost, any of which could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. matters related to the investigation into our historical stock option granting practices and the restatement of our financial statements have resulted in litigation and regulatory proceedings, and may result in additional litigation or other possible government actions. our historical stock option granting practices and the restatement of our consolidated financial statements have exposed us to risks such as litigation, regulatory proceedings, and government enforcement actions. for more information regarding our current litigation and related inquiries, please see note 7 commitments and contingencies in notes to consolidated financial statements in item 8 of part ii of this annual report on form 10-k, under the heading legal proceedings as well as the other risk factors related to litigation set forth in this section. we have provided the results of our internal review and independent investigation to the sec and the united states attorney office for the northern district of california, and in that regard, we have responded to formal and informal requests for documents and additional information. in august 2007, we announced that we entered into a settlement agreement with the sec in connection with our historical stock option granting practices in which we consented to a permanent injunction against any future violations of the antifraud, reporting, books-and-records and internal control provisions of the federal securities laws. this settlement concluded the sec formal investigation of the company with respect to this matter. in addition, while we believe that we have made appropriate judgments in determining the correct measurement dates for our stock option grants, the sec may disagree with the manner in which we accounted for and reported, or did not report, the corresponding financial impact. we are also subject to civil litigation related to the stock option matters. no assurance can be given regarding the outcomes from litigation or other possible government actions. the resolution of these matters will be time consuming, expensive, and may distract management from the conduct of our business. furthermore, if we are subject to adverse findings in litigation or if we enter into any settlements related thereto, we could be required to pay damages or penalties or have other remedies imposed, which could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 24 table of contents while we believe that we currently have adequate internal control over financial reporting, we are exposed to risks from legislation requiring companies to evaluate those internal controls. section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 requires our management to report on, and our independent auditors to attest to, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. we have an ongoing program to perform the system and process evaluation and testing necessary to comply with these requirements. we have and will continue to incur significant expenses and devote management resources to section 404 compliance on an ongoing basis. in the event that our chief executive officer, chief financial officer, or independent registered public accounting firm determine in the future that, our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective as defined under section 404, investor perceptions may be adversely affected and could cause a decline in the market price of our stock. regulation of the telecommunications industry could harm our operating results and future prospects. the telecommunications industry is highly regulated and our business and financial condition could be adversely affected by changes in the regulations relating to the telecommunications industry. currently, there are few laws or regulations that apply directly to access to or commerce on ip networks. we could be adversely affected by regulation of ip networks and commerce in any country where we operate. such regulations could address matters such as voice over the internet or using ip, encryption technology, and access charges for service providers. in addition, regulations have been adopted with respect to environmental matters, such as the weee and rohs regulations adopted by the european union, as well as regulations prohibiting government entities from purchasing security products that do not meet specified local certification criteria. compliance with such regulations may be costly and time-consuming for us and our suppliers and partners. the adoption and implementation of such regulations could decrease demand for our products, and at the same time could increase the cost of building and selling our products as well as impact our ability to ship products into affected areas and recognize revenue in a timely manner, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. the investment of our cash balance and our investments in government and corporate debt securities are subject to risks, which may cause losses and affect the liquidity of these investments. at december 31, 2008, we had $2,019.1 million in cash and cash equivalents and $274.3 million in short- and long-term investments. we have invested these amounts primarily in u.s. government securities, corporate notes and bonds, commercial paper, and money market funds meeting certain criteria. certain of these investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market, and interest rate risks, which may be exacerbated by u.s. sub-prime mortgage defaults that have affected various sectors of the financial markets and caused credit and liquidity issues. these market risks associated with our investment portfolio may have a negative adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations. uninsured losses could harm our operating results. we self-insure against many business risks and expenses, such as intellectual property litigation and our medical benefit programs, where we believe we can adequately self-insure against the anticipated exposure and risk or where insurance is either not deemed cost-effective or is not available. we also maintain a program of insurance coverage for various types of property, casualty, and other risks. we place our insurance coverage with various carriers in numerous jurisdictions. the types and amounts of insurance that we obtain vary from time to time and from location to location, depending on availability, cost, and our decisions with respect to risk retention. the policies are subject to deductibles, policy limits, and exclusions that result in our retention of a level of risk on a self-insurance basis. losses not covered by insurance could be substantial and unpredictable and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk 56 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk interest rate risk we maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. in addition, a portion of our cash and marketable securities are held in non-u.s. domiciled countries. our marketable securities are generally classified as available-for-sale and, consequently, are recorded on our consolidated balance sheet at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). at any time, a rise in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our investment portfolio. conversely, declines in interest rates could have a material impact on interest earnings of our investment portfolio. we do not currently hedge these interest rate exposures. the following tables present hypothetical changes in fair value of the financial instruments held at december 31, 2008, and 2007, that are sensitive to changes in interest rates (in millions): valuation of securities given an interest valuation of securities given an rate decrease of x basis points fair value as of interest (bps) december 31, rate increase of x bps (150 bps) (100 bps) (50 bps) 2008 50 bps 100 bps 150 bps government treasury and agencies $ 117.1 $ 116.6 $ 116.2 $ 115.7 $ 115.2 $ 114.8 $ 114.3 corporate bonds and notes 83.1 82.6 82.0 81.5 81.0 80.4 79.9 other 477.8 477.6 477.5 477.3 477.2 477.0 476.9 total $ 678.0 $ 676.8 $ 675.7 $ 674.5 $ 673.4 $ 672.2 $ 671.1 valuation of securities given an interest valuation of securities given an rate decrease of x basis points fair value as of interest (bps) december 31, rate increase of x bps (150 bps) (100 bps) (50 bps) 2007 50 bps 100 bps 150 bps government treasury and agencies $ 68.4 $ 68.1 $ 67.7 $ 67.4 $ 67.0 $ 66.7 $ 66.3 corporate bonds and notes 108.3 107.5 106.7 105.9 105.1 104.3 103.5 asset backed securities and other 370.3 370.1 370.0 369.9 369.7 369.6 369.5 total $ 547.0 $ 545.7 $ 544.4 $ 543.2 $ 541.8 $ 540.6 $ 539.3 56 table of contents these instruments are not leveraged and are held for purposes other than trading. the modeling technique used measures the changes in fair value arising from selected potential changes in interest rates. market changes reflect immediate hypothetical parallel shifts in the yield curve of plus or minus 50 basis points ( bps ), 100 bps, and 150 bps, which are representative of the historical movements in the federal funds rate. foreign currency risk and foreign exchange forward contracts periodically, we use derivatives to hedge against fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. we do not enter into derivatives for speculative or trading purposes. we use foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate variability in gains and losses generated from the re-measurement of certain monetary assets and liabilities denominated in non-functional currencies. these derivatives are carried at fair value with changes recorded in other income (expense) in the same period as the changes in the fair value from the re-measurement of the underlying assets and liabilities. these foreign exchange contracts have maturities between one and two months. our sales and costs of revenues are primarily denominated in u.s. dollars. our operating expenses are denominated in u.s. dollars as well as other foreign currencies including the british pound, the euro, indian rupee, and japanese yen. periodically, we use foreign currency forward and/or option contracts to hedge certain forecasted foreign currency transactions relating to operating expenses. these derivatives are designated as cash flow hedges and have maturities of less than one year. the effective portion of the derivative gain or loss is initially reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income and, upon occurrence of the forecasted transaction, is subsequently reclassified into the line item in the consolidated statements of operations to which the hedged transaction relates. we record any ineffectiveness of the hedging instruments, which was immaterial during the years ended december 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively, in other income (expense) on our consolidated statements of operations. the increase in operating expenses including research and development, sales and marketing, as well as general and administrative expenses, due to foreign currency fluctuations was approximately 1% in 2008. equity price risk our portfolio of publicly-traded equity securities is inherently exposed to equity price risk as the stock market fluctuates. we monitor our equity investments for impairment on a periodic basis. in the event that the carrying value of the equity investments exceeds its fair value, and we determine the decline in value to be other than temporary, we reduce the carrying value to its current fair value. in 2008, we realized an impairment charge of $3.5 million on a publicly-traded equity security due to a sustained decline in the fair value, in excess of six months, of the investment below its cost basis that we judged to be other than temporary. we do not purchase our equity securities with the intent to use them for trading or speculative purposes. the aggregate fair value of our marketable equity securities was $4.4 million and $8.6 million as of december 31, 2008, and 2007, respectively. a hypothetical 30% adverse change in the stock prices of our portfolio of publicly-traded equity securities would result in an immaterial loss. in addition to publicly-traded securities, we have also invested in privately-held companies. these investments are carried at cost. in 2008, we realized an impairment charge of $11.3 million on minority equity investments in privately-held companies that we judged to be other than temporary. the aggregate cost of our investments in privately-held companies was $14.2 million and $23.3 million as of december 31, 2008, and 2007, respectively. 57 table of contentsrisk factors 15 risk factors factors that may affect future results investments in our securities involve significant risks. the market price of our stock has historically reflected a higher multiple of earnings than many other companies. accordingly, even small changes in investor expectations for our future growth and earnings, whether as a result of actual or rumored financial or operating results, changes in the mix of the products and services sold, acquisitions, industry changes, or other factors, could trigger, and have triggered in the past, significant fluctuations in the market price of our common stock. investors in our securities should carefully consider all of the relevant factors, including, but not limited to, the following factors, that could affect our stock price. our quarterly results are unpredictable and subject to substantial fluctuations, and, as a result, we may fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. our revenues and operating results may vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control and any of which may cause our stock price to fluctuate. the factors that may cause our quarterly results to be unpredictable include, but are not limited to: limited visibility into customer spending plans, changes in the mix of products and services sold, changes in geographies in which our products and services are sold, changing market and economic conditions, current and potential customer consolidation, competition, customer concentration, long sales and implementation cycles, regional economic and political conditions, and seasonality. for example, many companies in our industry experience adverse seasonal fluctuations in customer spending, particularly in the first and third quarters. as a result of these risk factors, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of operating results are not necessarily a good indication of what our future performance will be. it is likely that in some future quarters, our operating results may be below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, in which case the price of our common stock may decline. such a decline could occur, and has occurred in the past, even when we have met our publicly stated revenues and/or earnings guidance. fluctuating economic conditions make it difficult to predict revenues for a particular period and a shortfall in revenues or increase in costs of production may harm our operating results. our revenues depend significantly on general economic conditions and the demand for products in the markets in which we compete. economic weakness, customer financial difficulties, and constrained spending on network expansion and enterprise infrastructure have resulted in certain historical periods, and may in the future result in decreased revenues and earnings and could make it difficult to forecast sales and operating results and could negatively affect our ability to provide forecasts to our contract manufacturers and manage our contract manufacturer relationships and other expenses. in addition, economic weakness, particularly in the united states and europ e, concerns over the sovereign debt situation in certain countries in the european union, the downgrade by standard and poor's (s&amp;p) of the u.s. long-term sovereign credit rating, as well as continued turmoil in the geopolitical environment in many parts of the world, may continue to put pressure on global economic conditions, which could lead to reduced demand for our products and/or higher costs of production. continued economic weakness may also lead to longer collection cycles for payments due from our customers, an increase in customer bad debt, restructuring initiatives and associated expenses, and impairment of investments. furthermore, the continued weakness and uncertainty in worldwide credit markets, including the sovereign debt situation in certain countries in the european union, may adversely impact the ability of our customers to adequately fund their expected capital expenditures, which could lead to delays or cancellations of planned purchases of our products or services. in addition, our operating expenses are largely based on anticipated revenue trends and a high percentage of our expenses is, and will continue to be, fixed in the short and medium term. uncertainty about future economic conditions makes it difficult to forecast operating results and to make decisions about future investments. future or continued economic weakness, failure of our customers and markets to recover from such weakness, customer financial difficulties, increases in costs of production, and reductions in spending on network maintenance and expansion could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and consequently on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. a limited number of our customers comprise a significant portion of our revenues and any decrease in revenues from these customers could have an adverse effect on our net revenues and operating results. 15 table of contents a substantial majority of our net revenues depend on sales to a limited number of customers and distribution partners. changes in the business requirements, vendor selection, financial prospects, capital resources, and expenditures, or purchasing behavior (including product mix purchased) of our key customers could significantly decrease sales to such customers or could lead to delays or cancellations of planned purchases of our products or services, which increases the risk of quarterly fluctuations in our revenues and operating results. any of these factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition, in recent years, there has been movement towards consolidation in the telecommunications industry (for example, the acquisitions of global crossing and qwest communications and at&amp;t's failed acquisition of t-mobile) and that consolidation trend has continued. if our customers or partners are parties to consolidation transactions they may suspend or indefinitely reduce their purchases of our products or other unforeseen cons equences could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. if we receive product orders late in a quarter, we may be unable to recognize revenue for these orders in the same period, which could adversely affect our quarterly revenues. generally, our infrastructure products are not stocked by distributors or resellers due to their cost and complexity and configurations required by our customers, and we generally build such products as orders are received. in recent years, the volume of orders received late in any given fiscal quarter has generally continued to increase but remains unpredictable. if orders for certain products are received late in any quarter, we may not be able to build, ship, and recognize revenue for these orders in the same period, which could adversely affect our ability to meet our expected revenues for such quarter. additionally, we determine our operating expenses largely on the basis of anticipated revenues and a high percentage of our expenses are fixed in the short and medium term. as a result, a failure or delay in generating or recognizing revenue could cause significant variations in our operating results and operating margin from quarter-to-quarter. the long sales and implementation cycles for our products, as well as our expectation that some customers will sporadically place large orders with short lead times, may cause our revenues and operating results to vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter. a customer's decision to purchase certain of our pro ducts, particularly new products, involves a significant commitment of its resources and a lengthy evaluation and product qualification process. as a result, the sales cycle may be length y. in particular, customers making critical decisions regarding the design and implementation of large network deployments may engage in very lengthy procurement processes that may delay or impact expected future orders. throughout the sales cycle, we may spend considerable time educating and providing information to prospective customers regarding the use and benefits of our products. even after making the decision to purchase, customers may deploy our products slowly and deliberately. timing of deployment can vary widely and depends on the skill set of the customer, the size of the network deployment, the complexity of the customer's network environment, and the degree of hardware and operating system configuration necessary to deploy the products. customers with large networks usually expand their networks in large increments on a periodic basis. accordingly, we may receive purchase orders for significant dollar amounts on an irregular basis. these long cycles, as well as our expectation that customers will tend to sporadically place large orders with short lead times, may cause revenues and operating results to vary significantly and unexpectedly from quarter-to-quarter. we face intense competition that could reduce our revenues and adversely affect our business and financial results. competition is intense in the markets that we address. the infrastructure market has historically been dominated by cisco with competition coming from other companies such as alcatel-lucent, brocade, extreme networks, hewlett packard company, and huawei. in the slt market, we face intense competition from a broader group of companies such as check point, cisco, f5 netwo rks, palo alto networks, and riverbe d. in addition, a number of other small public and private companies have products or have announced plans for new products to address the same challenges and markets that our products address. in addition, actual or speculated consolidation among competitors, or the acquisition of our partners and/or resellers by competitors, can increase the competitive pressures faced by us as customers may delay spending decisions. in this regard, ericsson acquired redback in 2007, and brocade acquired foundry networks in 2009. a number of our competitors have substantially greater resources and can offer a wider range of products and services for the overall network equipment market than we do. if we are unable to compete successfully against existing and future competitors on the basis of product offerings or price, we could experience a loss in market share and revenues and/or be required to reduce prices, which could reduce our gross margins, and which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 16 table of contents we expect our gross margins to vary over time, and our recent level of product gross margin may not be sustainable. we expect our product gross margins to vary from quarter-to-quarter, and the gross margins we have recently achieved may not be sustainable and may be adversely affected in the future by numerous factors, including product mix shifts, increased price competition in one or more of the markets in which we compete, increases in material or labor costs, excess product component or obsolescence charges from our contract manufacturers, increased costs due to changes in component pricing or charges incurred due to component holding periods if we do not accurately forecast product demand, warranty related issues, or our introduction of new products or entry into new markets with different pricing and cost structures. we rely on value-added and other resellers, as well as distribution partners, to sell our products, and disruptions to, or our failure to effectively develop and manage our distribution channel and the processes and procedures that support it could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues from the sale of our products. our future success is highly dependent upon establishing and maintaining successful relationships with a variety of value-added and other reseller and distribution partners, including our worldwide strategic partners such as ericsson, ibm, and nsn. the majority of our revenues are derived through value-added resellers and distributors, most of which also sell our competitors' products. our revenues depend in part on the performance of these partners. the loss of or reduction in sales to our value-added resellers or distributors could materially reduce our revenues. for example, in 2006, one of our largest resellers, lucent, was acquired by alcatel, a competitor of ours. as a result of the merger, lucent became a competitor, their resale of our products declined, and we ultimately terminated our reseller agreement with lucent. our competitors may in some cases be effective in providing incentives to current or potential resellers and distributors to favor their products or to prevent or reduce sales of our products. if we fail to develop and maintain relationships with our partners, fail to develop new relationships with value-added resellers and distributors in new markets, or expand the number of distributors and resellers in existing markets, fail to manage, train or motivate existing value-added resellers and distributors effectively, or if these partners are not successful in their sales efforts, sales of our products may decrease, and our business, financial condition, and results of operations would suffer. in addition, we recognize a portion of our revenues based on a sell-through model using information provided by our distributors. if those distributors provide us with inaccurate or untimely information, the amount or timing of our revenues could be adversely impacted. further, in order to develop and expand our distribution channel, we must continue to scale and improve our processes and procedures that support it, and those processes and procedures may become increasingly complex and inherently difficult to manage. for example, in 2009, we entered into an oem agreement with ibm pursuant to which they rebrand and resell our products as part of their product portfolios. these types of relationships are complex and require additional processes and procedures that may be challenging and costly to implement, maintain and manage. our failure to successfully manage and develop our distribution channel and the processes and procedures that support it could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues from the sale of our products. our ability to process orders and ship products in a timely manner is dependent in part on our business systems and performance of the systems and processes of third parties such as our contract manufacturers, suppliers, or other partners, as well as the interfaces between our systems and the systems of such third parties. if our systems, the systems and processes of those third parties, or the interfaces between them experience delays or fail, our business processes and our ability to build and ship products could be impacted, and our financial results could be harmed. some of our business processes depend upon our information technology ("it") systems, the systems, and processes of third parties, and on the interfaces of our systems with the systems of third parties. for example, our order entry system feeds information into the systems of our contract manufacturers, which enables them to build and ship our products. if those systems fail or are interrupted, our processes may function at a diminished level or not at all. this could negatively impact our ability to ship products or otherwise operate our business, and our financial results could be harmed. for example, although it did not adversely affect our shipments, an earthquake in late december of 2006 disrupted our communications with china, where a significant part of our manufacturing occurs. we also rely upon the performance of the systems and processes of our contract manufacturers to build and ship our products. if those systems and processes experience interruption or delay, our ability to build and ship our products in a timely manner may be harmed. for example, as we have expanded our contract manufacturing base to china, we have experienced instances where our contract manufacturer was not able to ship products in the time periods expected by us. if we are not able to ship our products or if product shipments are delayed, our ability to recognize revenue in a timely manner for those products would be affected and our financial results could be harmed. 17 table of contents telecommunications companies and our other large customers generally require more onerous terms and conditions in our contracts with them. as we seek to sell more products to such customers, we may be required to agree to terms and conditions that could have an adverse effect on our business or ability to recognize revenues. telecommunications service provider companies and other large companies, because of their size, generally have greater purchasing power and, accordingly, have requested and received more favorable terms, which often translate into more onerous terms and conditions from us. france telecom-orange and deutsche telekom ag have formed a company for the purpose of purchasing products from, and negotiating more favorable contractual terms with, suppliers. as we seek to sell more products to this class of customer, we may be r equired to agree to such terms and conditions, which may include terms that affect the timing of our ability to recognize revenue and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. consolidation among such large customers can further increase their buying power and ability to require onerous terms. for example, customers in this class have purchased products from other vendors who promised but failed to deliver certain functionality and/or had products that caused problems or outages in the networks of these customers. as a result, this class of customers may request additional features from us and require substantial penalties for failure to deliver such features or may require substantial penalties for any network outages that may be caused by our products. these additional requests and penalties, if we are required to agree to them, may require us to defer revenue recognition from such sales, which may negatively affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we are dependent on sole source and limited source suppliers for several key components, which makes us susceptible to shortages or price fluctuations in our supply chain, and we may face increased challenges in supply chain management in the future. during periods of high demand for electronic products, component shortages are possible, and the predictability of the availability of such components may be limited. any future growth in our business and the economy is likely to create greater pressures on us and our suppliers to accurately forecast overall component demand and to establish optimal component levels. if shortages or delays persist, the price of these components may increase, or the components may not be available at all. we may not be able to secure enough components at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build new products in a timely manner, and our revenues and gross margins could suffer until other sources can be developed. for example, from time to time, including the first quarter of 2008, we experienced component shortages that resulted in delays of product shipments. we currently purchase numerous key components, including asics, from single or limited sources. the development of alternate sources for those components is time-consuming, difficult, and costly. in addition, the lead times associated with certain components are lengthy and preclude rapid changes in quantities and delivery schedules. in the event of a component shortage or supply interruption from these suppliers, we may not be able to develop alternate or second sources in a timely manner. if we are unable to buy these components in quantities sufficient to meet our requirements on a timely basis, we will not be able to deliver product to our customers, which would seriously affect present and future sales, which would, in turn, adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition, the development, licensing, or acquisition of new products in the future may increase the complexity of supply chain management. failure to effectively manage the supply of key components and products would adversely affect our business. system security risks, data protection breaches, and cyber-attacks could compromise our proprietary information, disrupt our internal operations and harm public perception of our security products, which could cause our business and reputation to suffer and adversely affect our stock price. in the ordinary course of business, we store sensitive data, including intellectual property, our proprietary business information and that of our customers, suppliers and business partners on our networks. the secure maintenance of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy. increasingly, companies, including juniper networks are subject to a wide variety of attacks on their networks on an ongoing basis. despite our security measures, juniper networks' information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to penetration or attacks by computer programmers and hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. any such breach could compromise our networks, creating system disruptions or slowdowns and exploiting security vulnerabilities of our products, and the information stored on our networks could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. in addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that we produce or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including "bugs" and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of our networks. 18 table of contents if an actual or perceived breach of network security occurs in our network or in the network of a customer of our security products, regardless of whether the breach is attributable to our products, the market perception of the effectiveness of our products could be harmed. because the techniques used by computer programmers and hackers, many of whom are highly sophisticated and well-funded, to access or sabotage networks change frequently and generally are not recognized until after they are used, we may be unable to anticipate or immediately detect these techniques. this could impede our sales, manufacturing, distribution or other critical functions. in addition, the economic costs to us to eliminate or alleviate cyber or other security problems, bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software systems and security vulnerabilities could be significant and may be difficult to anticipate or measure because the damage may differ based on the identity and motive of the programmer or hacker, which are often difficult to identify. regulation of the telecommunications industry could harm our operating results and future prospects. the traditional telecommunications industry is highly regulated, and our business and financial condition could be adversely affected by changes in regulations relating to the internet telecommunications industry. currently, there are few laws or regulations that apply directly to access to or commerce on ip networks, but future regulations could include sales taxes on products sold via the internet and internet service provider access charges. we could be adversely affected by regulation of ip networks and commerce in any country where we market equipment and services to service or content providers. regulations governing the range of services and business models that can be offered by service providers or content providers could adversely affect those customers' needs for products designed to enable a wide range of such services or business models. for instance, the u.s. federal communications commission has issued regulation governing aspects of fixed broadband networks and wireless networks; these regulations might impact service provider and content provider business models and as such, providers' needs for internet telecommunications equipment and services. in addition, many jurisdictions are evaluating or implementing regulations relating to cyber security, privacy and data protection, which can affect the market and requirements for networking and security equipment. in addition, environmental regulations relevant to electronic equipment manufacturing or operations may impact our business and financial condition adversely. for instance, the european union has adopted weee, rohs and reach regulations. in addition, some governments have regulations prohibiting government entities from purchasing security products that do not meet specified indigenous certification criteria even though those criteria may be in conflict with accepted international standards. similar regulations are in effect or under consideration in several jurisdictions where we do business. the adoption and implementation of such regulations could decrease demand for our products, increase the cost of building and selling our products and impact our ability to ship products into affected areas and recognize revenue in a timely manner. any of these impacts could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. governmental regulations affecting the import or export of products or affecting products containing encryption capabilities could negatively affect our revenues. the united states and various foreign governments have imposed controls, export license requirements, and restrictions on the import or export of some technologies, especially encryption technology. in addition, from time to time, governmental agencies have proposed additional regulation of encryption technology, such as requiring certification, notifications, review of source code, or the escrow and governmental recovery of private encryption keys. for example, russia and china recently have implemented new requirements relating to products containing encryption and india has imposed special warranty and other obligations associated with technology deemed critical. governmental regulation of encryption or ip networking technology and regulation of imports or exports, or our failure to obtain required import or export approval for our products, could harm our international and domestic sales and adversely affect our revenues. in addition, failure to comply with such regulations could result in penalties, costs, and restrictions on import or export privileges or adversely affect sales to government agencies or government funded projects. if we do not successfully anticipate market needs and opportunities, and develop products and product enhancements that meet those needs and opportunities, or if those products are not made available in a timely manner or do not gain market acceptance, we may not be able to compete effectively and our ability to generate revenues will suffer. we cannot guarantee that we will be able to anticipate future market needs and opportunities or be able to develop new products or product enhancements to meet such needs or opportunities in a timely manner or at all. if we fail to anticipate market requirements or fail to develop and introduce new products or product enhancements to meet those needs in a timely manner, it could cause us to lose customers and such failure could substantially decrease or delay market acceptance and sales of our present and future products, which would significantly harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. even if we are able to anticipate, develop, and commercially introduce new products and enhancements, there can be no 19 table of contents assurance that new products or enhancements will achieve widespread market acceptance. for example, in connection with the acqui sitions of altor and trapeze in 2010, we are now offering a virtualization security product and a wlan product. additionally, in 2011, we announced our new data center product, the qfabric solution, our mobility solutions with our mobilenext software and our converged supercore product, which converges the optical and packet layers of the network. if these or other new products do not gain market acceptance at a sufficient rate of growth, our ability to meet future financial targets may be adversely affected. in addition, if we fail to achieve market acceptance at a sufficient rate of growth, our ability to meet future financial targets and aspirations may be adversely affected. in addition, if we fail to deliver new or announced products to the market in a timely manner, it could adversely affect the market acceptance of those products and harm our competitive position and our business and financial results. our ability to develop, market, and sell products could be harmed if we are unable to retain or hire key personnel. our future success depends upon our ability to recruit and retain the services of executive, engineering, sales and marketing, and support personnel. the supply of highly qualified individuals, in particular engineers in very specialized technical areas, or sales people specializing in the service provider and enterprise markets, is limited and competition for such individuals is intense. none of our officers or key employees is bound by an employment agreement for any specific term. the loss of the services of any of our key employees, the inability to attract or retain personnel in the future or delays in hiring required personnel, particularly engineers and sales people, and the complexity and time involved in replacing or training new employees, could delay the development and introduction of new products, and negatively impact our ability to market, sell, or support our products. changes in effective tax rates or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income or other tax returns could adversely affect our results. our future effective tax rates could be subject to volatility or adversely affected by: earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated earnings in countries where we have higher statutory rates; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; expiration of, or lapses in, the r&amp;d tax credit laws applicable to us; transfer pricing adjustments related to certain acquisitions, including the license of acquired intangibles under our intercompany r&amp;d cost sharing arrangement; tax effects of share-based compensation; costs related to intercompany restructurings; or changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles, or interpretations thereof. in addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the internal revenue service ( irs ) and other tax authorities. we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. there can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. from time to time, we receive preliminary notices of deficiency or notices of proposed adjustments from the irs claiming that we owe additional taxes, plus interest and possible penalties. for example, we received a preliminary notice of deficiency in 2011 and one in 2009 for prior tax years based on transfer pricing transactions related to the license of acquired intangibles under an intercompany r&amp;d cost sharing arrangement. as a result of the preliminary notices of deficiency received in 2011 and 2009, the incremental tax liability would be approximately $92.0 million and $807.0 million excluding interest and penalties, respectively. we believe the irs' position with regard to these matters is inconsistent with applicable tax laws, judicial precedent and existing treasury regulations, and that our previously reported income tax provisions for the years in question are appropriate. however, there can be no assurance that these matters will be resolved in our favor. regardless of whether these matters are resolved in our favor, the fin al resolution of these matters could be expensive and time-consuming to defend and/or settle. while we believe we have provided adequately for these matters, there is a possibility that an adverse outcome of these matters individually or in the aggregate could have a material effect on our results of operations and financial condition. if we fail to accurately predict our manufacturing requirements, we could incur additional costs or experience manufacturing delays, which would harm our business. we provide demand forecasts to our contract manufacturers and the manufacturers order components and plan capacity based on these forecasts. if we overestimate our requirements, our contract manufacturers may assess charges, or we may have liabilities for excess inventory, each of which could negatively affect our gross margins. conversely, because lead times for required materials and components vary significantly and depend on factors such as the specific supplier, contract terms, and the demand for each component at a given time, if we underestimate our requirements, as we did in the third quarter of 2010 with respect to certain components, our contract manufacturers may have inadequate time, materials, and/or components required to produce our products, which could increase costs or could delay or interrupt manufacturing of our products and 20 table of contents result in delays in shipments and deferral or loss of revenues. we are dependent on contract manufacturers with whom we do not have long-term supply contracts, and changes to those relationships, expected or unexpected, may result in delays or disruptions that could cause us to lose revenues and damage our customer relationships. we depend on independent contract manufacturers (each of which is a third-party manufacturer for numerous companies) to manufacture our products. although we have contracts with our contract manufacturers, these contracts do not require them to manufacture our products on a long-term basis in any specific quantity or at any specific price. in addition, it is time-consuming and costly to qualify and implement additional contract manufacturer relationships. therefore, if we fail to effectively manage our contract manufacturer relationships or if one or more of them experiences delays, disruptions, or quality control problems in our manufacturing operations, or if we had to change or add additional contract manufacturers or contract manufacturing sites, our ability to ship products to our customers could be delayed. also, the addition of manufacturing locations or contract manufacturers would increase the complexity of our supply chain management. moreover, an increasing portion of our manufacturing is performed in china and other countries and is therefore subject to risks associated with doing business in other countries. each of these factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. upgrades to key internal systems and processes, and problems with the design or implementation of these systems and processes could interfere with, and therefore harm, our business and operations. we previously initiated a multi-year project to upgrade certain key internal systems and processes, including our company-wide human resources management system, our customer relationship management ( crm ) system and enterprise resource planning ( erp ) system. in the first quarter of 2010, we implemented a major upgrade of our crm system. we have invested, and will continue to invest, significant capital and human resources in the design and implementation of these systems and processes. any disruptions or delays in the design and implementation of the new systems or processes, particularly any disruptions or delays that impact our operations, could adversely affect our ability to process customer orders, ship products, provide service and support to our customers, bill and track our customers, fulfill contractual obligations, record and transfer information in a timely and accurate manner, file sec reports in a timely manner, or otherwise run our business. even if we do not encounter these adverse effects, the design and implementation of these new systems and processes may be much more costly than we anticipated. if we are unable to successfully design and implement these new systems and processes as planned, or if the implementation of these systems and processes is more costly than anticipated, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be negatively impacted. we are a party to lawsuits, proceedings, and other disputes, which are costly to defend and, if determined adversely to us, could require us to pay damages or prevent us from taking certain actions, any or all of which could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we, and certain of our current and former officers and current and former members of our board of directors, are subject to various lawsuits. we have been served with lawsuits related to employment matters, commercial transactions and patent infringement as well as securities laws, a description of the securities lawsuits can be found in note 15, commitments and contingencies, in notes to consolidated financial statements of this annual report on form 10-k, under the heading legal proceedings. there can be no assurance that these or any actions that have been or may in the future be brought against us, our officers, and our directors will be resolved favorably or that tentative settlements will become final. regardless of whether they are resolved, these lawsuits are, and any future lawsuits or threatened legal proceedings to which we, our officers, or our directors may become a party will likely be, expensive and time-consuming to defend, settle, and/or resolve. legal proceedings, threatened legal proceedings or investigations, regardless of their ultimate outcome, could harm our reputation. costs of defense, as well as any losses resulting from these claims or settlement of these claims, could significantly increase our expenses and could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we are a party to litigation and claims regarding intellectual property rights, resolution of which may be time - consuming and expensive, as well as require a significant amount of resources to prosecute, defend, or make our products non-infringing. third parties have asserted and may in the future assert claims or initiate litigation related to patent, copyright, trademark, and other intellectual property rights to technologies and related standards that are relevant to our products. the asserted claims and/or initiated litigation may include claims against us or our manufacturers, suppliers, partners, or customers, alleging that our products or services infringe proprietary rights. regardless of the merit of these claims, they have been and can be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, and may require us to develop non-infringing technologies or enter into license 21 table of contents agreements. furthermore, because of the potential for high awards of damages or injunctive relief that are not necessarily predictable, even arguably unmeritorious claims may be settled for significant amounts of money. if any infringement or other intellectual property claim made against us by any third-party is successful, if we are required to settle litigation for significant amounts of money, or if we fail to develop non-infringing technology or license required proprietary rights on commercially reasonable terms and conditions, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. our success depends upon our ability to effectively plan and manage our resources and restructure our business through rapidly fluctuating economic and market conditions. our ability to successfully offer our products and services in a rapidly evolving market requires an effective planning, forecasting, and management process to enable us to effectively scale and adjust our business in response to fluctuating market opportunities and conditions. in periods of market expansion, we have increased investment in our business by, for example, increasing headcount and increasing our investment in r&amp;d, sales and marketing, and other parts of our business as we have in the 2010 fiscal year and in the first quarter of 2011. conversely, during 2009, in response to downward trending industry and market conditions, we restructured our business, rebalanced our workforce, and reduced our real estate portfolio. many of our expenses, such as real estate expenses, cannot be rapidly or easily adjusted because of fluctuations in our business or numbers of employees. moreover, rapid changes in the size of our workforce could adversely affect our ability to develop and deliver products and services as planned or impair our ability to realize our current or future business objectives. we are subject to risks arising from our international operations, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we derive a majority of our revenues from our international operations, and we plan to continue expanding our business in international markets in the future. we conduct significant sales and customer support operations directly and indirectly through our distributors and value-added resellers in c ountries throughout the world and depend on the operations of our contract manufacturers and suppliers that are located outside of the united states. in addition, a portion of our r&amp;d and our general and administrative operations are conducted outside the united states. in some countries, we may experience reduced intellectual property protection. as a result of our international operations, we are affected by economic, regulatory, social, and political conditions in foreign countries, including changes in general it spending, the imposition of government controls, including critical infrastructure protection, changes or limitations in trade protection laws, other regulatory requirements, which may affect our ability to import or export our products from various countries, service provider and government spending patterns affected by political considerations, unfavorable changes in tax treaties or laws, natural disasters, epidemic disease, labor unrest, earnings expatriation restrictions, misappropriation of intellectual property, military actions, acts of terrorism, political and social unrest and difficulties in staffing and managing international operations. for example, revenue attributable to our customers in japan generally accounts for five percent to eight percent of our revenue. although we did not experience a significant negative impact to our revenue during fiscal year 2011, the march 2011 earthquake and tsunami in japan may continue to adversely and unpredictably affect our customers and spending patterns in japan in the short term. any or all of these factors could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. moreover, local laws and customs in many countries differ significantly from those in the united states. in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common for others t o engage in business practices that are prohibited by our internal policies and procedures or united states regulations applicable to us. there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, and agents will not take actions in violation of our policies and procedures, which are designed to ensure compliance with u.s. and foreign laws and policies. violations of laws or key control policies by our employees, contractors, or agents could result in financial reporting problems, fines, penalties, or prohibition on the importation or exportation of our products, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. because a majority of our business is conducted outside the united states, we face exposure to adverse movements in non-u.s. currency exchange rates. these exposures may change over time as business practices evolve and could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. the majority of our revenues and expenses are transacted in u.s. dollars. we also have some transactions that are denominated 22 table of contents in foreign currencies, primarily the british pound, euro, indian rupee, and japanese yen related to our sales and service operations outside of the united states. an increase in the value of the u.s. dollar could increase the real cost to our customers of our products in those markets outside the united states in which we sell in u.s. dollars, and a weakened u.s. dollar could increase the cost of local operating expenses and procurement of raw materials to the extent we must purchase components in foreign currencies. currently, we hedge only those currency exposures associated with certain assets and liabilities denominated in nonfunctional currencies and periodically hedge anticipated foreign currency cash flows. the hedging activities undertaken by us are intended to offset the impact of currency fluctuations on certain nonfunctional currency assets and liabilities. however, no amount of hedging can be effective against all circumstances, including long-term declines in the value of the u.s. dollar. if our attempts to hedge against these risks are not successful, or if long-term declines in the value of the u.s. dollar persist, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted. integration of acquisitions could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition and stock price and may dilute the ownership of our stockholders. we have made, and may continue to make, acquisitions in order to enhance our business. for example, in december 2010 we acquired altor and trapeze, in july 2010 we acquired smobile, and in april 2010 we acquired ankeena. acquisitions involve numerous risks, including problems combining the purchased operations, technologies or products, unanticipated costs, diversion of management's attention from our core businesses, adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers, risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience, and potential loss of key employees. there can be no assu rance that we will be able to integrate successfully any businesses, products, technologies, or personnel that we might acquire. the integration of businesses that we may acquire is likely to be a complex, time-consuming, and expensive process and we may not realize the anticipated revenues or other benefits associated with our acquisitions if we fail to successfully manage and operate the acquired business. if we fail in any acquisition integration efforts and are unable to efficiently operate as a combined organization utilizing common information and communication systems, operating procedures, financial controls, and human resources practices, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected. acquisitions may also require us to issue common stock or assume equity awards that dilute the ownership of our current stockholders, assume liabilities, record goodwill and amortizable intangible assets that will be subject to impairment testing on a regular basis and potential periodic impairment charges, incur amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets, and incur large and immediate write-offs and restructuring and other related expenses, all of which could harm our financial condition and results of operations. if we fail to adequately evolve our financial and managerial control and reporting systems and processes, our ability to manage and grow our business will be negatively affected. our ability to successfully offer our products and implement our business plan in a rapidly evolving market depends upon an effective planning and management process. we will need to continue to improve our financial and managerial control and our reporting systems and procedures in order to manage our business effectively in the future. if we fail to continue to implement improved systems and processes, our ability to manage our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be negatively affected. our financial condition and results of operations could suffer if there is an additional impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets with indefinite lives. we are required to test annually and review on an interim basis, our goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives, including the goodwill associated with past acquisitions and any future acquisitions, to determine if impairment has occurred. as of december 31, 2011, our goodwill was $3,928.1 million . if such assets are deemed impaired, an impairment loss equal to the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the fair value of the assets would be recognized. this would result in incremental expenses for that quarter, which would reduce any earnings or increase any loss for the period in which the impairment was determined to have occurred. for example, such impairment could occur if the market value of our common stock falls below certain levels for a sustained period, or if the portions of our business related to companies we have acquired fail to grow at expected rates or decline. in the second quarter of 2006, our impairment evaluation resulted in a reduction of $1,280.0 million to the carrying value of goodwill on our balance sheet for the slt operating segment, primarily due to the decline in our market capitalization that occurred over a period of approximately nine months prior to the impairment review and, to a lesser extent, a decrease in forecasted future cash flows. in recent years, economic weakness contributed to extreme price and volume fluctuations in global stock markets that reduced the market price of many technology company stocks, 23 table of contents including ours. future declines in our stock price, as well as any marked decline in our level of revenues or gross margins, increase the risk that goodwill and intangible assets may become impaired in future periods. we cannot accurately predict the amount and timing of any impairment of assets. our products are highly technical and if they contain undetected errors or do not meet customer quality expectations, our business could be adversely affected, and we may need to defend lawsuits or pay damages in connection with any alleged or actual failure of our products and services. our products are highly technical and complex, are critical to the operation of many networks, and, in the case of our security products, provide and monitor network security and may protect valuable information. our products have contained and may contain one or more undetected errors, defects, malware, or security vulnerabilities. some errors in our products may only be discovered after a product has been installed and used by end-customers. any errors, defects, malware or security vulnerabilities discovered in our products after commercial release could result in loss of revenues or delay in revenue recognition, loss of customers, loss of future business and reputation, penalties, and increased service and warranty cost, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition, in the event an error, defect, malware, or vulnerability is attributable to a component supplied by a third-party vendor, we may not be able to recover from the vendor all of the costs of remediation that we may incur. in addition, we could face claims for product liability, tort, or breach of warranty. defending a lawsuit, regardless of its merit, is costly and may divert management's attention. if our business liability insurance coverage is inadequate, or future coverage is unavailable on acceptable terms or at all, our financial condition and results of operations could be harm ed. moreover, if our products fail to satisfy our customers' quality expectations for whatever reason, the perception of and the demand for our products could be adversely affected. if our products do not interoperate with our customers' networks, installations will be delayed or cancelled and could harm our business. our products are designed to interface with our customers' existing networks, each of which have different specifications and utilize multiple protocol standards and products from other vendors. many of our customers' networks contain multiple generations of products that have been added over time as these networks have grown and evolved. our products must interoperate with many or all of the products within these networks as well as future products in order to meet our customers' requirements. if we find errors in the existing software or defects in the hardware used in our customers' networks, we may need to modify our software or hardware to fix or overcome these errors so that our products will interoperate and scale with the existing software and hardware, which could be costly and could negatively affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition, if our products do not interoperate with those of our customers' networks, demand for our products could be adversely affected or orders for our products could be cancelled. this could hurt our operating results, damage our reputation, and seriously harm our business and prospects. our products incorporate and rely upon licensed third-party technology, and if licenses of third-party technology do not continue to be available to us or become very expensive, our revenues and ability to develop and introduce new products could be adversely affected. we integrate licensed third-party technology into certain of our products. from time to time, we may be required to license additional technology from third-parties to develop new products or product enhancements. third-party licenses may not be available or continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms. the failure to comply with the terms of any license may result in our inability to continue to use such license. our inability to maintain or re-license any third-party licenses required in our products or our inability to obtain third-party licenses necessary to develop new products and product enhancements, could require us, if possible, to develop substitute technology or obtain substitute technology of lower quality or performance standards or at a greater cost, any of which could delay or prevent product shipment and harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we sell our products to customers that use those products to build networks and ip infrastructure, and if the demand for network and ip systems does not continue to grow, then our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. a substantial portion of our business and revenues depends on the growth of secure ip infrastructure and on the deployment of our products by customers that depend on the continued growth of ip services. as a result of changes in the economy capital spending or the building of network capacity in excess of demand, all of which have in the past particularly affected telecommunications service providers, spending on ip infrastructure can vary, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition, a number of our existing customers are evaluating the build out of their next generation networks. during the decision-making period when the customers are determining the design 24 table of contents of those networks and the selection of the equipment they will use in those networks, such customers may greatly reduce or suspend their spending on secure ip infrastructure. such delays in purchases can make it more difficult to predict revenues from such customers, can cause fluctuations in the level of spending by these customers and, even where our products are ultimately selected, can have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. while we believe that we currently have adequate internal control over financial reporting, we are exposed to risks from legislation requiring companies to evaluate those internal controls. section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 requires our management to report on, and our independent auditors to attest to, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. we have an ongoing program to perform the system and process evaluation and testing necessary to comply with these requirements. we have and will continue to incur significant expenses and devote management resources to section 404 compliance on an ongoing basis. in the event that our chief executive officer, chief financial officer, or independent registered public accounting firm determine in the future that, our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective as defined under section 404, investor perceptions may be adversely affected if our financial statements are not reliable and could cause a decline in the market price of our stock and otherwise negatively affect our liquidity and financial condition. the investment of our cash balance and our investments in government and corporate debt securities are subject to risks, which may cause losses and affect the liquidity of these investments. at december 31, 2011, we had $2,910.4 million in cash and cash equivalents and $1,382.0 million in short- and long-term investments. we have invested these amounts primarily in u.s. government securities, government-sponsored enterprise obligations, foreign government debt securities, corporate notes and bonds, commercial paper, and money market funds meeting certain criteria. certain of these investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market, and interest rate risks, which may be exacerbated by u.s. sub-prime mortg age defaults that have affected various sectors of the financial markets and caused credit and liquidity issues at many financial institutions. our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates or if the decline in fair value of our publicly traded debt or equity investments is judged to be other-than-temporary. these market risks associated with our investment portfolio may have a negative adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations. we may be unable to generate the cash flow to service our debt obligations, including the senior notes. in march 2011, we issued senior unsecured notes for an aggregate princi ple amount of $1.0 billion. we may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to enable us to service our indebtedness, including the notes, or to make anticipated capital expenditures. our ability to pay our expenses and satisfy our debt obligations, refinance our debt obligations and fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. based upon current levels of operations, we believe cash flow from operations and available cash will be adequate for the foreseeable future to meet our anticipated requirements for working capital, capital expenditures and scheduled payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness, including the senior notes. however, if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or to borrow sufficient funds in the future to service our debt, we may be required to sell assets, reduce capital expenditures, refinance all or a portion of our existing debt (including the senior notes) or obtain additional financing. there is no assurance that we will be able to refinance our debt, sell assets or borrow more money on terms acceptable to us, or at all. the indenture that governs the senior notes also contains various covenants that limit our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to, among other things: incur liens; incur sale and leaseback transactions; and consolidate or merge with or into, or sell substantially all of our assets to, another person as a result of these covenants, we are limited in the manner in which we can conduct our business, and we may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or capital needs. accordingly, these restrictions may limit our ability to successfully operate our business. a failure to comply with these restrictions could lead to an event of default, which could result in an acceleration of the indebtedness. our future operating results may not be sufficient to enable compliance with these covenants to remedy any such default. in addition, in the event of an acceleration, we may not have or 25 table of contents be able to obtain sufficient funds to make any accelerated payments, including those under the senior notes. uninsured losses could harm our operating results. we self-insure against many business risks and expenses, such as intellectual property litigation and our medical benefit programs, where we believe we can adequately self-insure against the anticipated exposure and risk or where insurance is either not deemed cost-effective or is not available. we also maintain a program of insurance coverage for various types of property, casualty, and other risks. we place our insurance coverage with various carriers in numerous jurisdictions. the types and amounts of insurance that we obtain vary from time to time and from location to location, depending on availability, cost, and our decisions with respect to risk retention. the policies are subject to deductibles, policy limits, and exclusions that result in our retention of a level of risk on a self-insurance basis. losses not covered by insurance could be substantial and unpredictable and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk 48 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk interest rate risk we maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. the value of our investments is subject to market price volatility. in addition, as of december 31, 2011, 49% of our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities are held in non-u.s. domiciled countries. our marketable securities are generally classified as available-for-sale and, consequently, are recorded on our consolidated balance sheet at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). at any time, a rise in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our investment portfolio. conversely, a decline in interest rates could have a material impact on interest income from our investment portfolio. we do not currently hedge these interest rate exposures. we recognized immaterial gains and losses during the years ended december 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, related to the sales of our investments. the following tables present hypothetical changes in fair value of the financial instruments held at december 31, 2011, and 2010, that are sensitive to changes in interest rates (in millions): 48 table of contents valuation of securities given an interest rate decrease of x bps fair value as of december 31, 2011 valuation of securities given an interest rate increase of x bps (150 bps) (100 bps) (50 bps) 50 bps 100 bps 150 bps government treasury and agencies $ 740.4 $ 737.6 $ 734.8 $ 731.9 $ 729.2 $ 726.4 $ 723.6 corporate bonds and notes 516.8 514.1 511.4 508.7 506.0 503.3 500.5 other 1,572.0 1,571.4 1,570.8 1,570.3 1,569.7 1,569.1 1,568.7 total $ 2,829.2 $ 2,823.1 $ 2,817.0 $ 2,810.9 $ 2,804.9 $ 2,798.8 $ 2,792.8 valuation of securities given an interest rate decrease of x bps fair value as of december 31, 2010 valuation of securities given an interest rate increase of x bps (150 bps) (100 bps) (50 bps) 50 bps 100 bps 150 bps government treasury and agencies $ 457.4 $ 456.3 $ 455.1 $ 454.1 $ 452.8 $ 451.7 $ 450.5 corporate bonds and notes 469.9 467.2 464.4 461.7 459.0 456.2 453.5 foreign government debt securities 47.8 47.5 47.3 47.0 46.8 46.5 46.3 other 1,291.6 1,291.2 1,290.7 1,290.1 1,289.7 1,289.2 1,288.7 total $ 2,266.7 $ 2,262.2 $ 2,257.5 $ 2,252.9 $ 2,248.3 $ 2,243.6 $ 2,239.0 these instruments are not leveraged and are held for purposes other than trading. the modeling technique used measures the changes in fair value arising from selected potential changes in interest rates. market changes reflect immediate hypothetical parallel shifts in the yield curve of plus or minus 50 basis points ( bps ), 100 bps, and 150 bps, which are representative of the historical movements in the federal funds rate. foreign currency risk and foreign exchange forward contracts periodically, we use derivatives to hedge against fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. we do not enter into derivatives for speculative or trading purposes. we use foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate variability in gains and losses generated from the re-measurement of certain monetary assets and liabilities denominated in non-functional currencies. these derivatives are carried at fair value with changes recorded in other income (expense) in the same period as the changes in the fair value from the re-measurement of the underlying assets and liabilities. these foreign exchange contracts have maturities of one year or less. our sales and costs of product revenues are primarily denominated in u.s. dollars. our cost of service revenue and operating expenses are denominated in u.s. dollars as well as other foreign currencies including the british pound, the euro, indian rupee, and japanese yen. approximately 76% of such costs and operating expenses are denominated in u.s. dollars. periodically, we use foreign currency forward and/or option contracts to hedge certain forecasted foreign currency transactions to reduce variability in cost of service revenue and operating expenses caused by non-u.s. dollar denominated operating expense and costs. in designing a specific hedging approach, we consider several factors, including offsetting exposures, significance of exposures, costs associated with entering into a particular hedge instrument, and potential effectiveness of the hedge. these derivatives are designated as cash flow hedges and have maturities of less than one year. the effective portion of the derivative's gain or loss is initially reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and, upon occurrence of the forecasted transaction, is subsequently reclassified into the line item in the consolidated statements of operations to which the hedged transaction relates. we record the ineffectiveness of the hedging instruments, which was immaterial during the years ended december 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively, in other income (expense) on our consolidated statements of operations. the change in operating expenses including cost of service revenue, r&amp;d, sales and marketing, and g&amp;a expenses, due to foreign currency fluctuations was approximately 1%, 1%, and 2% in 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. if overall foreign currency exchange rates in comparison to the u.s. dollar uniformly changes by 10%, the amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities we would report in u.s. dollars would change by less than 1%, assuming constant foreign currency cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances. equity price risk our portfolio of publicly-traded equity securities and our non-qualified deferred compensation ( nqdc ) plan, which may 49 table of contents also hold publicly-traded equity securities, are inherently exposed to equity price risk as the stock market fluctuates. our publicly-traded equity securities are classified as available-for-sale securities on our consolidated balance sheets. investments under the nqdc plan are considered trading securities and are also reported at fair value on our consolidated balance sheet. we do not purchase our publicly-traded equity securities with the intent to use them for speculative purposes. as of december 31, 2011, and 2010, the total investments under the nqdc plan were $9.3 million and $8.1 million, respectively. a hypothetical 30% adverse change on the total investments under the nqdc plan as of december 31, 2011, and 2010 would result in an immaterial loss. we have also invested in privately-held companies. these investments are carried at cost. in 2011, there were impairment charge of $1.8 million on our investments in privately-held companies that we judged to be other than temporary as discussed in note 5, fair value measurements , in notes to consolidated financial statements in item 8 of part ii of this annual report on form 10-k. there were no such charges in 2010. the aggregate cost of our investments in privately-held companies was $51.8 million and $22.1 million as of december 31, 2011, and 2010, respectively. 50 table of contentsrisk factors 15 risk factors factors that may affect future results investments in our securities involve significant risks. the market price of our stock has historically reflected a higher multiple of earnings than many other companies. accordingly, even small changes in investor expectations for our future growth and earnings, whether as a result of actual or rumored financial or operating results, changes in the mix of the products and services sold, acquisitions, industry changes, or other factors, could trigger, and have triggered in the past, significant fluctuations in the market price of our common stock. investors in our securities should carefully consider all of the relevant factors disclosed by us, including, but not limited to, the following factors, that could affect our business, operating results and stock price. our quarterly results are unpredictable and subject to substantial fluctuations, and, as a result, we may fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. our revenues and operating results may vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control and any of which may cause our stock price to fluctuate. the factors that may cause our quarterly results to vary quarter by quarter and be unpredictable include, but are not limited to: limited visibility into customer spending plans, changes in the mix of products and services sold, changes in geographies in which our products and services are sold, changing market and economic conditions, current and potential customer consolidation, competition, customer concentration, long sales and implementation cycles, regional economic and political conditions, and seasonality. for example, we, and many companies in our industry, experience adverse seasonal fluctuations in customer spending, particularly in the first and third quarters. market trends, competitive pressures, commoditization of products, seasonal rebates, increased component or shipping costs, regulatory impacts and other factors may result in reductions in revenue or pressure on gross margins of certain segments in a given period, which may necessitate adjustments to our operations. as a result of these factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of operating results are not necessarily a good indication of what our future performance will be. it is likely that in some future quarters, our operating results may be below our guidance, our long-term financial model or the expectations of securities analysts or investors, in which case the price of our common stock may decline. such a decline could occur, and has occurred in the past, even when we have met our publicly stated revenues and/or earnings guidance. fluctuating economic conditions make it difficult to predict revenues for a particular period and a shortfall in revenues or increase in costs of production may harm our operating results. our revenues and gross margin depend significantly on general economic conditions and the demand for products in the markets in which we compete. economic weakness, customer financial difficulties, and constrained spending on network expansion and enterprise infrastructure have in the past resulted in, and may in the future result in, decreased revenues and earnings. such factors could make it difficult to accurately forecast sales and operating results and could negatively affect our ability to provide accurate forecasts to our contract manufacturers and manage our contract manufacturer relationships and other expenses. in addition, economic uncertainty concerns over the sovereign debt situation in certain countries in the european union, as well as continued turmoil in the geopolitical environment in many parts of the world, have, and may continue to, put pressure on global economic conditions, which has led, and could continue to lead, to reduced demand for our products, to delays or reductions in network expansions or infrastructure projects, and/or higher costs of production. economic weakness may also lead to longer collection cycles for payments due from our customers, an increase in customer bad debt, restructuring initiatives and associated expenses, and impairment of investments. furthermore, continued weakness and the sovereign debt situation in certain countries in the european union, may adversely impact the ability of our customers to adequately fund their expected capital expenditures, which could lead to delays or cancellations of planned purchases of our products or services. in addition, our operating expenses are largely based on anticipated revenue trends and a high percentage of our expenses is, and will continue to be, fixed in the short and medium term. uncertainty about future economic conditions also makes it difficult to forecast operating results and to make decisions about future investments. future or continued economic weakness, failure of our customers and markets to recover from such weakness, customer financial difficulties, increases in costs of production, and reductions in spending on network maintenance and expansion could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and consequently on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 15 table of contents a limited number of our customers comprise a significant portion of our revenues and there is an ongoing trend toward consolidation in the industry in which our customers and partners operate. any decrease in revenues from our customers or partners could have an adverse effect on our net revenues and operating results. a substantial majority of our net revenues depend on sales to a limited number of customers and distribution partners. for example, verizon accounted for greater than 10% of our net revenues in 2010 and 2012. changes in the business requirements, vendor selection, financial prospects, capital resources, and expenditures, or purchasing behavior (including product mix purchased) of our key customers could significantly decrease sales to such customers or could lead to delays or cancellations of planned purchases of our products or services, which increases the risk of quarterly fluctuations in our revenues and operating results. any of these factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition, in recent years, there has been movement towards consolidation in the telecommunications industry (for example, the acquisitions of global crossing by level 3 communications and qwest communications by centurylink and softbank's proposed purchase of a controlling interest in sprint nextel) and that consolidation trend has continued. if our customers or partners are parties to consolidation transactions they may delay, suspend or indefinitely reduce or cancel their purchases of our products or other unforeseen consequences could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. the long sales and implementation cycles for our products, as well as our expectation that some customers will sporadically place large orders with short lead times, may cause our revenues and operating results to vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter. a customer's decision to purchase certain of our products, particularly new products, involves a significant commitment of its resources and a lengthy evaluation and product qualification process. as a result, the sales cycle may be lengthy. in particular, customers making critical decisions regarding the design and implementation of large network deployments may engage in very lengthy procurement processes that may delay or impact expected future orders. throughout the sales cycle, we may spend considerable time educating and providing information to prospective customers regarding the use and benefits of our products. even after making the decision to purchase, customers may deploy our products slowly and deliberately. timing of deployment can vary widely and depends on the skill set of the customer, the size of the network deployment, the complexity of the customer's network environment, and the degree of hardware and operating system configuration necessary to deploy the products. customers with large networks usually expand their networks in large increments on a periodic basis. accordingly, we may receive purchase orders for significant dollar amounts on an irregular basis. these long cycles, as well as our expectation that customers will tend to sporadically place large orders with short lead times, both of which may be exacerbated by the impact of continued global economic weakness, may cause revenues and operating results to vary significantly and unexpectedly from quarter-to-quarter. we face intense competition that could reduce our revenues and adversely affect our business and financial results. competition is intense in the markets that we address. the psd market has historically been dominated by cisco, with competition coming from other companies such as alcatel-lucent, brocade, extreme networks, hewlett packard company, and huawei. in the ssd market, we face intense competition from a broader group of companies such as check point, cisco, f5 networks, palo alto networks, and fortinet. further, a number of other small public and private companies have products or have announced plans for new products to address the same challenges and markets that our products address. in addition, actual or speculated consolidation among competitors, or the acquisition of our partners and/or resellers by competitors, can increase the competitive pressures faced by us as customers may delay spending decisions or not purchase our products at all. for example, oracle's proposed acquisition of acme packet, inc. in 2013 and cisco's acquisition of meraki networks, inc. in 2013. a number of our competitors have substantially greater resources and can offer a wider range of products and services for the overall network equipment market than we do. if we are unable to compete successfully against existing and future competitors on the basis of product offerings or price, we could experience a loss in market share and revenues and/or be required to reduce prices, which could reduce our gross margins, and which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we expect our gross margins to vary over time, and the level of product gross margins achieved by us in recent years may not be sustainable. we expect our product gross margins to vary from quarter-to-quarter, and the gross margins we have achieved in recent years may not be sustainable and may be adversely affected in the future by numerous factors, including customer, product and geographic mix shifts, increased price competition in one or more of the markets in which we compete, increases in material or labor costs, increases in inventory carrying costs, excess product component or obsolescence charges from our contract 16 table of contents manufacturers, increased costs due to changes in component pricing or charges incurred due to component holding periods if we do not accurately forecast product demand, warranty related issues, or our introduction of new products or entry into new markets with different pricing and cost structures. for example, in the third quarter of fiscal 2012, our margins declined as a result of an inventory charge resulting from inventory we held in excess of forecasted demand. failure to sustain or improve our gross margins reduces our profitability and may have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. if we receive product orders late in a quarter, we may be unable to recognize revenue for these orders in the same period, which could adversely affect our quarterly revenues. generally, our psd products are not stocked by distributors or resellers due to their cost and complexity and configurations required by our customers, and we generally build such products as orders are received. in recent years, the volume of orders received late in any given fiscal quarter has generally continued to increase but remains unpredictable. if orders for certain products are received late in any quarter, we may not be able to build, ship, and recognize revenue for these orders in the same period, which could adversely affect our ability to meet our expected revenues for such quarter. additionally, we determine our operating expenses largely on the basis of anticipated revenues and a high percentage of our expenses are fixed in the short and medium term. as a result, a failure or delay in generating or recognizing revenue could cause significant variations in our operating results and operating margin from quarter-to-quarter. we are dependent on sole source and limited source suppliers for several key components, which makes us susceptible to shortages or price fluctuations in our supply chain, and we may face increased challenges in supply chain management in the future. during periods of high demand for electronic products, component shortages are possible, and the predictability of the availability of such components may be limited. any future growth in our business, it spending and the economy in general is likely to create greater pressures on us and our suppliers to accurately forecast overall component demand and to establish optimal component inventories. if shortages or delays persist, the price of these components may increase, or the components may not be available at all. we may not be able to secure enough components at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build new products in a timely manner, and our revenues and gross margins could suffer until other sources can be developed. for example, from time to time, we have experienced component shortages that resulted in delays of product shipments. we currently purchase numerous key components, including asics, from single or limited sources. the development of alternate sources for those components is time-consuming, difficult, and costly. in addition, the lead times associated with certain components are lengthy and preclude rapid changes in quantities and delivery schedules. also, long-term supply and maintenance obligations to customers increase the duration for which specific components are required, which may further increase the risk of component shortages or the cost of carrying inventory. in the event of a component shortage or supply interruption from these suppliers, we may not be able to develop alternate or second sources in a timely manner. if we are unable to buy these components in quantities sufficient to meet our requirements on a timely basis, we will not be able to deliver product to our customers, which would seriously affect present and future sales, which would, in turn, adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition, the development, licensing, or acquisition of new products in the future may increase the complexity of supply chain management. failure to effectively manage the supply of key components and products would adversely affect our business. we rely on value-added and other resellers, as well as distribution partners, to sell our products, and disruptions to, or our failure to effectively develop and manage, our distribution channel and the processes and procedures that support it could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues from the sale of our products. our future success is highly dependent upon establishing and maintaining successful relationships with a variety of value-added and other reseller and distribution partners, including our worldwide strategic partners such as ericsson, ibm, and nsn. the majority of our revenues are derived through value-added resellers and distributors, most of which also sell our competitors' products, and some of which sell their own products that compete with our products. our revenues depend in part on the performance of these partners. the loss of or reduction in sales to our value-added resellers or distributors could materially reduce our revenues. for example, in 2006, one of our largest resellers, lucent, was acquired by alcatel, a competitor of ours. as a result of the merger, lucent became a competitor, their resale of our products declined, and we ultimately terminated our reseller agreement with lucent. our competitors may in some cases be effective in leveraging their market share positions or in providing incentives to current or potential resellers and distributors to favor their products or to prevent or reduce sales of our products. if we fail to develop and maintain relationships with our partners, fail to develop new relationships with value-added resellers and distributors in new markets, or expand the number of distributors and resellers in existing markets, fail to manage, train or motivate existing value-added resellers and distributors effectively, or if these partners 17 table of contents are not successful in their sales efforts, sales of our products may decrease, and our business, financial condition, and results of operations would suffer. in addition, we recognize a portion of our revenues based on a sell-through model using information provided by our distributors. if those distributors provide us with inaccurate or untimely information, the amount or timing of our revenues could be adversely impacted. further, in order to develop and expand our distribution channel, we must continue to offer attractive channel programs to potential partners and scale and improve our processes and procedures that support the channel. as a result, our programs, processes and procedures may become increasingly complex and inherently difficult to manage. we have previously entered into oem agreements with partners pursuant to which they rebrand and resell our products as part of their product portfolios. these types of relationships are complex and require additional processes and procedures that may be challenging and costly to implement, maintain and manage. our failure to successfully manage and develop our distribution channel and the programs, processes and procedures that support it could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues from the sale of our products. our ability to process orders and ship products in a timely manner is dependent in part on our business systems and performance of the systems and processes of third parties such as our contract manufacturers, suppliers, or other partners, as well as the interfaces between our systems and the systems of such third parties. if our systems, the systems and processes of those third parties, or the interfaces between them experience delays or fail, our business processes and our ability to build and ship products could be impacted, and our financial results could be harmed. some of our business processes depend upon our information technology ("it") systems, the systems, and processes of third parties and on the interfaces of our systems with the systems of third parties. for example, our order entry system feeds information into the systems of our contract manufacturers, which enables them to build and ship our products. if those systems fail or are interrupted, our processes may function at a diminished level or not at all. this could negatively impact our ability to ship products or otherwise operate our business, and our financial results could be harmed. for example, although it did not adversely affect our shipments, an earthquake in late december of 2006 disrupted our communications with china, where a significant part of our manufacturing occurs. we also rely upon the performance of the systems and processes of our contract manufacturers to build and ship our products. if those systems and processes experience interruption or delay, our ability to build and ship our products in a timely manner may be harmed. for example, as we have expanded our contract manufacturing base to china, we have experienced instances where our contract manufacturer was not able to ship products in the time periods expected by us. if we are not able to ship our products or if product shipments are delayed, our ability to recognize revenue in a timely manner for those products would be affected and our financial results could be harmed. telecommunications companies and our other large customers generally require more onerous terms and conditions in our contracts with them. as we seek to sell more products to such customers, we may be required to agree to terms and conditions that could have an adverse effect on our business or ability to recognize revenues. telecommunications service provider companies, which comprise a significant portion of our customer base, and other large companies, because of their size, generally have greater purchasing power and, accordingly, have requested and received more favorable terms from others, which often translate into more onerous terms and conditions from us. recently, france telecom-orange and deutsche telekom ag have formed a company for the purpose of purchasing products from, and negotiating more favorable contractual terms with, suppliers. as we seek to sell more products to this class of customer, we may be required to agree to such terms and conditions, which may include terms that affect the timing of our ability to recognize revenue and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. consolidation among such large customers can further increase their buying power and ability to require onerous terms. in addition, telecommunications service providers have purchased products from other vendors who promised but failed to deliver certain functionality and/or had products that caused problems or outages in the networks of these customers. as a result, these customers may request additional features from us and require substantial penalties for failure to deliver such features or may require substantial penalties for any network outages that may be caused by our products. these additional requests and penalties, if we are required to agree to them, may require us to defer revenue recognition from such sales, which may negatively affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 18 table of contents system security risks, data protection breaches, and cyber-attacks could compromise our proprietary information, disrupt our internal operations and harm public perception of our security products, which could cause our business and reputation to suffer and adversely affect our stock price. in the ordinary course of business, we store sensitive data, including intellectual property, our proprietary business information and that of our customers, suppliers and business partners on our networks. the secure maintenance of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy. increasingly, companies, including juniper networks, are subject to a wide variety of attacks on their networks on an ongoing basis. despite our security measures, juniper networks' information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to penetration or attacks by computer programmers and hackers, or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. any such breach could compromise our networks, creating system disruptions or slowdowns and exploiting security vulnerabilities of our products, and the information stored on our networks could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen, which could subject us to liability to our customers, suppliers, business partners and others, and cause us reputational and financial harm. in addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that we produce or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including "bugs" and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of our networks. if an actual or perceived breach of network security occurs in our network or in the network of a customer of our security products, regardless of whether the breach is attributable to our products, the market perception of the effectiveness of our products could be harmed. because the techniques used by computer programmers and hackers, many of whom are highly sophisticated and well-funded, to access or sabotage networks change frequently and generally are not recognized until after they are used, we may be unable to anticipate or immediately detect these techniques. this could impede our sales, manufacturing, distribution or other critical functions. in addition, the economic costs to us to eliminate or alleviate cyber or other security problems, bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software systems and security vulnerabilities could be significant and may be difficult to anticipate or measure because the damage may differ based on the identity and motive of the programmer or hacker, which are often difficult to identify. regulation of the telecommunications industry could harm our operating results and future prospects. the traditional telecommunications industry is highly regulated, and our business and financial condition could be adversely affected by changes in regulations relating to the internet telecommunications industry. currently, there are few laws or regulations that apply directly to access to or commerce on ip networks, but future regulations could include sales taxes on products sold via the internet and internet service provider access charges. we could be adversely affected by regulation of ip networks and commerce in any country where we market equipment and services to service or content providers. regulations governing the range of services and business models that can be offered by service providers or content providers could adversely affect those customers' needs for products designed to enable a wide range of such services or business models. for instance, the u.s. federal communications commission has issued regulations governing aspects of fixed broadband networks and wireless networks; these regulations might impact service provider and content provider business models and as such, providers' needs for internet telecommunications equipment and services. also, many jurisdictions are evaluating or implementing regulations relating to cyber security, supply chain integrity, privacy and data protection, any of which can affect the market and requirements for networking and security equipment. in addition, environmental regulations relevant to electronic equipment manufacturing or operations may impact our business and financial condition adversely. for instance, the european union and china have adopted weee and rohs regulations, which require producers of electrical and electronic equipment to assume responsibility for collecting, treating, recycling and disposing of products when they have reached the end of their useful life, as well as reach regulations, which regulate handling of certain chemical substances that may be used in our products. in addition, some governments have regulations prohibiting government entities from purchasing security products that do not meet specified indigenous certification criteria, even though those criteria may be in conflict with accepted international standards. these regulations are in effect or under consideration in several jurisdictions where we do business. the adoption and implementation of such regulations could reduce demand for our products, increase the cost of building and selling our products, result in product inventory write-offs, impact our ability to ship products into affected areas and recognize revenue in a timely manner and require us to spend significant time and expense to comply, and we could face fines and civil or criminal sanctions or claims if we were to violate or become liable under such regulations. any of these impacts could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 19 table of contents governmental regulations affecting the import or export of products or affecting products containing encryption capabilities could negatively affect our revenues. certain of our products contain or use encryption technology. the united states and various foreign governments have imposed controls, export license requirements, and restrictions on the import or export, among other things, encryption technology. in addition, from time to time, governmental agencies have proposed additional regulation of encryption technology, such as requiring certification, notifications, review of source code, or the escrow and governmental recovery of private encryption keys. for example, russia and china recently have implemented new requirements relating to products containing encryption and india has imposed special warranty and other obligations associated with technology deemed critical. governmental regulation of encryption or ip networking technology and regulation of imports or exports, or our failure to obtain required import or export approval for our products, could harm our international and domestic sales and adversely affect our revenues. in addition, failure to comply with such regulations could result in harm to our reputation, penalties, costs, and restrictions on import or export privileges or adversely affect sales to government agencies or government-funded projects. if we do not successfully anticipate technological shifts, market needs and opportunities, and develop products and product enhancements that meet those technological shifts, needs and opportunities, or if those products are not made available in a timely manner or do not gain market acceptance, we may not be able to compete effectively and our ability to generate revenues will suffer. we cannot guarantee that we will be able to anticipate future technological shifts, market needs and opportunities or be able to develop new products or product enhancements to meet such technological shifts, needs or opportunities in a timely manner or at all. for example, the move from traditional network infrastructures towards software defined networks ("sdn") has been receiving considerable attention. in our view, it will take several years to see the full impact of sdn, and we believe the successful products and solutions in this market will combine hardware and software elements together. if we fail to anticipate market requirements or fail to develop and introduce new products or product enhancements to meet those needs in a timely manner, it could cause us to lose customers, and such failure could substantially decrease or delay market acceptance and sales of our present and future products, which would significantly harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. even if we are able to anticipate, develop, and commercially introduce new products and enhancements, there can be no assurance that new products or enhancements will achieve widespread market acceptance. in addition, as a result of our acquisitions of altor and trapeze in 2010, we have been offering a virtualization security product and a wlan product. also, in 2012, we announced new products, including the smaller version of our qfabric solutions, the latest qfx3000-m qfabric system, t4000 core routers, ptx series packet transport switches, mx2020 and mx2010 3d universal edge routers, and junosv app engine. if these or other new products do not gain market acceptance at a sufficient rate of growth, our ability to meet future financial targets may be adversely affected. in addition, if we fail to achieve market acceptance at a sufficient rate of growth, our ability to meet future financial targets and aspirations may be adversely affected. finally, if we fail to deliver new or announced products to the market in a timely manner, it could adversely affect the market acceptance of those products and harm our competitive position and our business and financial results. our ability to develop, market, and sell products could be harmed if we are unable to retain or hire key personnel. our future success depends upon our ability to recruit and retain the services of executive, engineering, sales and marketing, and support personnel. the supply of highly qualified individuals, in particular engineers in very specialized technical areas, or sales people specializing in the service provider and enterprise markets, is limited and competition for such individuals is intense. none of our officers or key employees is bound by an employment agreement for any specific term. the loss of the services of any of our key employees, the inability to attract or retain personnel in the future or delays in hiring required personnel, particularly engineers and sales people, and the complexity and time involved in replacing or training new employees, could delay the development and introduction of new products, and negatively impact our ability to market, sell, or support our products. changes in effective tax rates or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income or other tax returns could adversely affect our results. our future effective tax rates could be subject to volatility or adversely affected by: earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated earnings in countries where we have higher statutory rates; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; expiration of, or lapses in, the r&amp;d tax credit laws applicable to us; transfer pricing adjustments related to certain acquisitions, including the license of acquired intangibles under our intercompany r&amp;d cost sharing arrangement; costs related to intercompany restructurings; tax effects of share-based compensation; or changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles, or interpretations thereof. in addition, we are subject 20 table of contents to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the internal revenue service ( irs ) and other tax authorities. we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. there can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. from time to time, we receive preliminary notices of deficiency or notices of proposed adjustments from the irs claiming that we owe additional taxes, plus interest and possible penalties. for example, we received a preliminary notice of deficiency in 2011 and one in 2009 for prior tax years based on transfer pricing transactions related to the license of acquired intangibles under an intercompany r&amp;d cost sharing arrangement. as a result of the preliminary notices of deficiency received in 2011 and 2009, the incremental tax liability would be approximately $92.0 million and $807.0 million excluding interest and penalties, respectively. we believe the irs' position with regard to these matters is inconsistent with applicable tax laws, judicial precedent and existing treasury regulations, and that our previously reported income tax provisions for the years in question are appropriate. however, there can be no assurance that these matters will be resolved in our favor. regardless of whether these matters are resolved in our favor, the final resolution of these matters could be expensive and time-consuming to defend and/or settle. while we believe we have provided adequately for these matters, there is a possibility that an adverse outcome of these matters individually or in the aggregate could have a material effect on our results of operations and financial condition. if we fail to accurately predict our manufacturing requirements, we could incur additional costs or experience manufacturing delays, which would harm our business. we provide demand forecasts to our contract manufacturers and the manufacturers order components and plan capacity based on these forecasts. if we overestimate our requirements, our contract manufacturers may assess charges, or we may have liabilities for excess inventory, each of which could negatively affect our gross margins. for example, in the third quarter of fiscal 2012, our gross margins were reduced as a result of an inventory charge resulting from inventory we held in excess of forecasted demand. conversely, because lead times for required materials and components vary significantly and depend on factors such as the specific supplier, contract terms, and the demand for each component at a given time, and because our contract manufacturers are third-party manufacturers for numerous other companies, if we underestimate our requirements, as we did in the third quarter of 2010 with respect to certain components, our contract manufacturers may have inadequate time, materials, and/or components required to produce our products, which could increase costs or could delay or interrupt manufacturing of our products and result in delays in shipments and deferral or loss of revenues. we are dependent on contract manufacturers with whom we do not have long-term supply contracts, and changes to those relationships, expected or unexpected, may result in delays or disruptions that could cause us to lose revenues and damage our customer relationships. we depend on independent contract manufacturers (each of which is a third-party manufacturer for numerous companies) to manufacture our products. although we have contracts with our contract manufacturers, these contracts do not require them to manufacture our products on a long-term basis in any specific quantity or at any specific price. in addition, it is time-consuming and costly to qualify and implement additional contract manufacturer relationships. therefore, if we fail to effectively manage our contract manufacturer relationships, which includes failing to provide accurate forecasts of our requirements, or if one or more of them experiences delays, disruptions, or quality control problems in our manufacturing operations, or if we had to change or add additional contract manufacturers or contract manufacturing sites, our ability to ship products to our customers could be delayed. also, the addition of manufacturing locations or contract manufacturers would increase the complexity of our supply chain management. moreover, an increasing portion of our manufacturing is performed in china and other countries and is therefore subject to risks associated with doing business in other countries. in addition, in late 2012, we confirmed that we were reducing the number of our contract manufacturers. as a result, we will be transitioning the work of one manufacturer to two of our other existing manufacturers during 2013. if we do not manage that transition effectively, we could experience delays or quality issues. each of these factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. upgrades to key internal systems and processes, and problems with the design or implementation of these systems and processes could interfere with, and therefore harm, our business and operations. we previously initiated a multi-year project to upgrade certain key internal systems and processes, including our company-wide human resources management system, our customer relationship management ( crm ) system and enterprise resource planning ( erp ) system. in the first quarter of 2010, we implemented a major upgrade of our crm system. in 2012 and continuing into 2013, we expect to implement major changes to our erp system. we have invested, and will continue to invest, significant capital and human resources in the design and implementation of these systems and processes. any disruptions or 21 table of contents delays in the design and implementation of the new systems or processes, particularly any disruptions or delays that impact our operations, could adversely affect our ability to process customer orders, ship products, provide service and support to our customers, bill and track our customers, fulfill contractual obligations, record and transfer information in a timely and accurate manner, file sec reports in a timely manner, or otherwise run our business. even if we do not encounter these adverse effects, the design and implementation of these new systems and processes may be much more costly than we anticipated. if we are unable to successfully design and implement these new systems and processes as planned, or if the implementation of these systems and processes is more costly than anticipated, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be negatively impacted. we are a party to lawsuits, proceedings, and other disputes, which are costly to defend and, if determined adversely to us, could require us to pay damages or prevent us from taking certain actions, any or all of which could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we, and certain of our current and former officers and current and former members of our board of directors, are subject to various lawsuits. we have been served with lawsuits related to employment matters, commercial transactions and patent infringement as well as securities laws. a description of the securities lawsuits can be found in note 16, commitments and contingencies , in notes to consolidated financial statements of this report, under the heading legal proceedings. there can be no assurance that these or any actions that have been or may in the future be brought against us, our officers, and our directors will be resolved favorably or that tentative settlements will become final. regardless of whether they are resolved, these lawsuits are, and any future lawsuits or threatened legal proceedings to which we, our officers, or our directors may become a party will likely be, expensive and time-consuming to defend, settle, and/or resolve. legal proceedings, threatened legal proceedings or investigations, regardless of their ultimate outcome, could harm our reputation. costs of defense, as well as any losses resulting from these claims or settlement of these claims, could significantly increase our expenses and could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we are a party to litigation and claims regarding intellectual property rights, resolution of which may be time - consuming and expensive, as well as require a significant amount of resources to prosecute, defend, or make our products non-infringing. our industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent claims and related litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. we expect that infringement claims may increase as the number of products and competitors in our market increases and overlaps occur. third parties have asserted and may in the future assert claims or initiate litigation related to patent, copyright, trademark, and other intellectual property rights to technologies and related standards that are relevant to our products. the asserted claims and/or initiated litigation may include claims against us or our manufacturers, suppliers, partners, or customers, alleging that our products or services infringe proprietary rights. regardless of the merit of these claims, they have been and can be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, and may require us to develop non-infringing technologies or enter into license agreements. furthermore, because of the potential for high awards of damages or injunctive relief that are not necessarily predictable, even arguably unmeritorious claims may be settled for significant amounts of money. if any infringement or other intellectual property claim made against us by any third-party is successful, if we are required to settle litigation for significant amounts of money, or if we fail to develop non-infringing technology or license required proprietary rights on commercially reasonable terms and conditions, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. we may face difficulties enforcing our proprietary rights. we generally rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secret laws and restrictions on disclosure of confidential and proprietary information, to establish and maintain proprietary rights in our technology and products. although we have been issued numerous patents and other patent applications are currently now pending, there can be no assurance that any of these patents or other proprietary rights will not be challenged, invalidated, infringed or circumvented or that our rights will, in fact, provide competitive advantages to us or protect our technology, either of which could result in costly product redesign efforts, discontinuance of certain product offerings and other competitive harm. furthermore, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. the outcome of any actions taken in these foreign countries may be different than if such actions were determined under the laws of the united states. although we are not dependent on any individual patents or group of patents for particular segments of the business for which we compete, if we are unable to protect our proprietary rights in a market, we may find ourselves at a competitive disadvantage to others who need not incur the substantial expense, time, and effort required to create innovative products that have enabled our success. 22 table of contents our success depends upon our ability to effectively plan and manage our resources and restructure our business through rapidly fluctuating economic and market conditions. our ability to successfully offer our products and services in a rapidly evolving market requires an effective planning, forecasting, and management process to enable us to effectively scale and adjust our business in response to fluctuating market opportunities and conditions. in periods of market expansion, we have increased investment in our business by, for example, increasing headcount and increasing our investment in r&amp;d, sales and marketing, and other parts of our business. conversely, in the third quarter of 2012, to align our cost structure with long-term strategic plans as part of our productivity and efficiency initiatives, we restructured our business, rebalanced our workforce, and reduced our real estate portfolio. many of our expenses, such as real estate expenses, are fixed costs that cannot be rapidly or easily adjusted in response to fluctuations in our business or numbers of employees. moreover, rapid changes in the size of our workforce could adversely affect our ability to develop and deliver products and services as planned or impair our ability to realize our current or future business objectives. our ability to achieve the anticipated cost savings and other benefits from our restructuring initiatives within the expected time frame is subject to many estimates and assumptions. these estimates and assumptions are subject to significant economic, competitive and other uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. if these estimates and assumptions are incorrect, if we are unsuccessful at implementing changes, or if other unforeseen events occur, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. our financial condition and results of operations could suffer if there is an additional impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets with indefinite lives. we are required to test annually and review on an interim basis, our goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives, including the goodwill associated with acquisitions, to determine if impairment has occurred. as of december 31, 2012 , our goodwill was $ 4,057.8 million and our intangible assets were $128.9 million . if goodwill or intangible assets are deemed impaired, an impairment loss equal to the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the fair value of the assets would be recognized. this would result in incremental expenses for that quarter, which would reduce any earnings or increase any loss for the period in which the impairment was determined to have occurred. for example, such impairment could occur if the market value of our common stock falls below certain levels for a sustained period, or if the portions of our business related to companies we have acquired fail to grow at expected rates or decline. in the second quarter of 2006, our impairment evaluation resulted in a reduction of $1,280.0 million to the carrying value of goodwill on our consolidated balance sheets, primarily due to the decline in our market capitalization that occurred over a period of approximately nine months prior to the impairment review and, to a lesser extent, a decrease in forecasted future cash flows. in the third quarter of 2012, our impairment evaluation resulted in a reduction of $5.4 million to the carrying value of certain purchased intangibles on our consolidated balance sheets, primarily due to the decline in discounted cash flow projections. in recent years, economic weakness contributed to extreme price and volume fluctuations in global stock markets that reduced the market price of many technology company stocks, including ours. future declines in our stock price, as well as declines in our level of revenues or gross margins, increase the risk that goodwill and intangible assets may become impaired in future periods. we cannot accurately predict the amount and timing of any impairment of assets. however, any such impairment would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. we are subject to risks arising from our international operations, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we derive a majority of our revenues from our international operations, and we plan to continue expanding our business in international markets in the future. we conduct significant sales and customer support operations directly and indirectly through our distributors and vars in countries throughout the world and depend on the operations of our contract manufacturers and suppliers that are located outside of the united states. in addition, a portion of our r&amp;d and our general and administrative operations are conducted outside the united states. in some countries, we may experience reduced intellectual property protection. as a result of our international operations, we are affected by economic, regulatory, social, and political conditions in foreign countries, including the following: changes in general it spending, the imposition of government controls, inclusive of critical infrastructure protection, 23 table of contents changes or limitations in trade protection laws or other regulatory requirements, which may affect our ability to import or export our products from various countries, the impact of the following on service provider and government spending patterns: political considerations, unfavorable changes in tax treaties or laws, natural disasters, epidemic disease, labor unrest, earnings expatriation restrictions, misappropriation of intellectual property, military actions, acts of terrorism, political and social unrest and difficulties in staffing and managing international operations. any or all of these factors could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. moreover, local laws and customs in many countries differ significantly from those in the united states. in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common for others to engage in business practices that are prohibited by our internal policies and procedures or united states regulations applicable to us. there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, channel partners, and agents will not take actions in violation of our policies and procedures, which are designed to ensure compliance with u.s. and foreign laws and policies. violations of laws or key control policies by our employees, contractors, channel partners, or agents could result in financial reporting problems, fines, penalties, or prohibition on the importation or exportation of our products, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. because a majority of our business is conducted outside the united states, we face exposure to adverse movements in non-u.s. currency exchange rates. these exposures may change over time as business practices evolve and could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. the majority of our revenues and expenses are transacted in u.s. dollars. we also have some transactions that are denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the british pound, euro, indian rupee, and japanese yen related to our sales and service operations outside of the united states. an increase in the value of the u.s. dollar could increase the real cost to our customers of our products in those markets outside the united states in which we sell in u.s. dollars, and a weakened u.s. dollar could increase the cost of local operating expenses and procurement of raw materials to the extent we must purchase components in foreign currencies. currently, we hedge only those currency exposures associated with certain assets and liabilities denominated in nonfunctional currencies and periodically hedge anticipated foreign currency cash flows. the hedging activities undertaken by us are intended to offset the impact of currency fluctuations on certain nonfunctional currency assets and liabilities. however, such attempts to offset the impact of currency fluctuations are costly and no amount of hedging can be effective against all circumstances, including long-term declines in the value of the u.s. dollar. if our attempts to hedge against these risks are not successful, or if long-term declines in the value of the u.s. dollar persist, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted. integration of acquisitions could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition and stock price and may dilute the ownership of our stockholders. we have made, and may continue to make, acquisitions in order to enhance our business. for example, in 2012, we acquired contrail systems inc. ("contrail") and mykonos, and in 2010 we acquired altor, trapeze, smobile, and ankeena. acquisitions involve numerous risks, including problems combining the purchased operations, technologies or products, unanticipated costs, diversion of management's attention from our core businesses, adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers, risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience, and potential loss of key employees. there can be no assurance that we will be able to integrate successfully any businesses, products, technologies, or personnel that we might acquire. the integration of businesses that we may acquire is likely to be a complex, time-consuming, and expensive process and we may not realize the anticipated revenues or other benefits associated with our acquisitions if we fail to successfully manage and operate the acquired business. if we fail in any acquisition integration efforts and are unable to efficiently operate as a combined organization utilizing common information and communication systems, operating procedures, financial controls, and human resources practices, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected. acquisitions may also require us to issue common stock or assume equity awards that dilute the ownership of our current stockholders, use a substantial portion of our cash resources, assume liabilities, record goodwill and amortizable intangible assets that will be subject to impairment testing on a regular basis and potential periodic impairment charges, incur 24 table of contents amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets, and incur large and immediate write-offs and restructuring and other related expenses, all of which could harm our financial condition and results of operations. if we fail to adequately evolve our financial and managerial control and reporting systems and processes, our ability to manage and grow our business will be negatively affected. our ability to successfully offer our products and implement our business plan in a rapidly evolving market depends upon an effective planning and management process. we will need to continue to improve our financial and managerial control and our reporting systems and procedures in order to manage our business effectively in the future. if we fail to continue to implement improved systems and processes, our ability to manage our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be negatively affected. our products are highly technical and if they contain undetected errors or malware or do not meet customer quality expectations, our business could be adversely affected, and we may be subject to lawsuits or be required to pay damages in connection with any alleged or actual failure of our products and services. our products are highly technical and complex, are critical to the operation of many networks, and, in the case of our security products, provide and monitor network security and may protect valuable information. our products have contained and may contain one or more undetected errors, defects, malware, or security vulnerabilities. some errors in our products may only be discovered after a product has been installed and used by end-customers. any errors, defects, malware or security vulnerabilities discovered in our products after commercial release could result in monetary penalties, loss of revenues or delay in revenue recognition, loss of customers, loss of future business and reputation, penalties, and increased service and warranty cost, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition, in the event an error, defect, malware, or vulnerability is attributable to a component supplied by a third-party vendor, we may not be able to recover from the vendor all of the costs of remediation that we may incur. in addition, we could face claims for product liability, tort, or breach of warranty. defending a lawsuit, regardless of its merit, is costly and may divert management's attention. if our business liability insurance coverage is inadequate, or future coverage is unavailable on acceptable terms or at all, our financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. moreover, if our products fail to satisfy our customers' quality expectations for whatever reason, the perception of and the demand for our products could be adversely affected. if our products do not interoperate with our customers' networks, installations will be delayed or cancelled and could harm our business. our products are designed to interface with our customers' existing networks, each of which have different specifications and utilize multiple protocol standards and products from other vendors. many of our customers' networks contain multiple generations of products that have been added over time as these networks have grown and evolved. our products must interoperate with many or all of the products within these networks as well as future products in order to meet our customers' requirements. if we find errors in the existing software or defects in the hardware used in our customers' networks, we may need to modify our software or hardware to fix or overcome these errors so that our products will interoperate and scale with the existing software and hardware, which could be costly and could negatively affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition, if our products do not interoperate with those of our customers' networks, demand for our products could be adversely affected or orders for our products could be cancelled. this could hurt our operating results, damage our reputation, and seriously harm our business and prospects. our products incorporate and rely upon licensed third-party technology, and if licenses of third-party technology do not continue to be available to us or become very expensive, our revenues and ability to develop and introduce new products could be adversely affected. we integrate licensed third-party technology into certain of our products. from time to time, we may be required to license additional technology from third-parties to develop new products or product enhancements. third-party licenses may not be available or continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms. the failure to comply with the terms of any license, including free open source software, may result in our inability to continue to use such license. our inability to maintain or re-license any third-party licenses required in our products or our inability to obtain third-party licenses necessary to develop new products and product enhancements, could require us, if possible, to develop substitute technology or obtain substitute technology of lower quality or performance standards or at a greater cost, any of which could delay or prevent product shipment and harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 25 table of contents we sell our products to customers that use those products to build networks and ip infrastructure, and if the demand for network and ip systems does not continue to grow, then our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. a substantial portion of our business and revenues depends on the growth of secure ip infrastructure and on the deployment of our products by customers that depend on the continued growth of ip services. as a result of changes in the economy capital spending or the building of network capacity in excess of demand, all of which have in the past particularly affected telecommunications service providers, spending on ip infrastructure can vary, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition, a number of our existing customers are evaluating the build-out of their next generation networks. during the decision-making period when the customers are determining the design of those networks and the selection of the equipment they will use in those networks, such customers may greatly reduce or suspend their spending on secure ip infrastructure. such delays in purchases can make it more difficult to predict revenues from such customers can cause fluctuations in the level of spending by these customers and, even where our products are ultimately selected, can have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we are required to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, and any adverse results from such evaluation may adversely affect investor perception, our stock price and cause us to incur additional expense. section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 requires our management to report on, and our independent auditors to attest to, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. we have an ongoing program to perform the system and process evaluation and testing necessary to comply with these requirements. we have and will continue to incur significant expenses and devote management resources to section 404 compliance on an ongoing basis. in the event that our chief executive officer, chief financial officer, or independent registered public accounting firm determine in the future that, our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective as defined under section 404, investor perceptions may be adversely affected if our financial statements are not reliable and could cause a decline in the market price of our stock and otherwise negatively affect our liquidity and financial condition. the investment of our cash balance and our investments in government and corporate debt securities are subject to risks, which may cause losses and affect the liquidity of these investments. at december 31, 2012 , we had $2,407.8 million in cash and cash equivalents and $1,429.6 million in short- and long-term investments. we have invested these amounts primarily in asset-backed securities, certificate of deposit, commercial paper, corporate debt securities, foreign government debt securities, government- sponsored enterprise obligations, money market funds, mutual funds, publicly-traded equity securities and u.s. government securities. certain of these investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market, and interest rate risks, which may be exacerbated by u.s. sub-prime mortgage defaults that have affected various sectors of the financial markets and caused credit and liquidity issues at many financial institutions. our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates or if the decline in fair value of our publicly traded debt or equity investments is judged to be other-than-temporary. these market risks associated with our investment portfolio may have a negative adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations. we may be unable to generate the cash flow to service our debt obligations, including the senior notes. in march 2011, we issued senior unsecured notes for an aggregate principle amount of $1.0 billion (see discussion in note 10, long-term debt and financing , in the notes to consolidated financial statements of this report). we may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to enable us to service our indebtedness, including the notes, or to make anticipated capital expenditures. our ability to pay our expenses and satisfy our debt obligations, refinance our debt obligations and fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. based upon current levels of operations, we believe cash flow from operations and available cash will be adequate for the foreseeable future to meet our anticipated requirements for working capital, capital expenditures and scheduled payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness, including the senior notes. however, if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or to borrow sufficient funds in the future to service our debt, we may be required to sell assets, reduce capital expenditures, refinance all or a portion of our existing debt (including the senior notes) or obtain additional financing. there is no assurance that we will be able to refinance our debt, sell assets or borrow more money on terms acceptable to us, or at all. the indenture that governs the senior notes also contains various covenants that limit our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to, among other things: incur liens; 26 table of contents incur sale and leaseback transactions; and consolidate or merge with or into, or sell substantially all of our assets to, another person as a result of these covenants, we are limited in the manner in which we can conduct our business, and we may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or capital needs. accordingly, these restrictions may limit our ability to successfully operate our business. a failure to comply with these restrictions could lead to an event of default, which could result in an acceleration of the indebtedness. our future operating results may not be sufficient to enable compliance with these covenants to remedy any such default. in addition, in the event of an acceleration, we may not have or be able to obtain sufficient funds to make any accelerated payments, including those under the senior notes. uninsured losses could harm our operating results. we self-insure against many business risks and expenses, such as intellectual property litigation and our medical benefit programs, where we believe we can adequately self-insure against the anticipated exposure and risk or where insurance is either not deemed cost-effective or is not available. we also maintain a program of insurance coverage for various types of property, casualty, and other risks. we place our insurance coverage with various carriers in numerous jurisdictions. the types and amounts of insurance that we obtain vary from time to time and from location to location, depending on availability, cost, and our decisions with respect to risk retention. the policies are subject to deductibles, policy limits, and exclusions that result in our retention of a level of risk on a self-insurance basis. losses not covered by insurance could be substantial and unpredictable and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 49 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk we maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. the value of our investments is subject to market price volatility. in addition, as of december 31, 2012 , 57% of our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities are held outside of the u.s. our marketable securities are generally classified as available-for-sale and, consequently, are recorded on our consolidated balance sheets at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). these investments are also reviewed to identify and evaluate indications of potential other-than-temporary impairments as discussed in note 4, cash equivalents and investments, in notes to consolidated financial statements in item 8 of part ii of this report. at any time, a rise in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our investment portfolio. conversely, a decline in interest rates could have a material impact on interest income from our investment portfolio. we do not currently hedge these interest rate exposures. we recognized immaterial gains and losses during the years ended december 31, 2012 , 2011 , and 2010 , related to the sales of our investments. 49 table of contents the following tables presents hypothetical changes in fair value of our available-for-sale fixed income securities held as of december 31, 2012 and 2011 that are sensitive to changes in interest rates (in millions): valuation of securities given an interest rate decrease of x bps fair value as of december 31, 2012 valuation of securities given an interest rate increase of x bps (150 bps) (100 bps) (50 bps) 50 bps 100 bps 150 bps available-for-sale fixed income securities $ 1,435.6 $ 1,428.4 $ 1,421.2 $ 1,414.1 $ 1,460.8 $ 1,399.6 $ 1,392.4 valuation of securities given an interest rate decrease of x bps fair value as of december 31, 2011 valuation of securities given an interest rate increase of x bps (150 bps) (100 bps) (50 bps) 50 bps 100 bps 150 bps available-for-sale fixed income securities $ 1,390.7 $ 1,384.7 $ 1,378.7 $ 1,372.7 $ 1,366.6 $ 1,360.6 $ 1,354.4 these instruments are not leveraged and are held for purposes other than trading. the modeling technique used measures the changes in fair value arising from selected potential changes in interest rates. market changes reflect immediate hypothetical parallel shifts in the yield curve of plus or minus 50 basis points ( bps ), 100 bps, and 150 bps, which are representative of the historical movements in the federal funds rate. foreign currency risk and foreign exchange forward contracts periodically, we use derivatives to hedge against fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. we do not enter into derivatives for speculative or trading purposes. we use foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate variability in gains and losses generated from the re-measurement of certain monetary assets and liabilities denominated in non-functional currencies. these derivatives are carried at fair value with changes recorded in other (expense) income, net in our consolidated statements of operations in the same period as the changes in the fair value from the re-measurement of the underlying assets and liabilities. these foreign exchange contracts have maturities of one year or less. our sales and costs of product revenues are primarily denominated in u.s. dollars. our cost of service revenue and operating expenses are denominated in u.s. dollars as well as other foreign currencies including the british pound, the euro, indian rupee, and japanese yen. approximately 77% of such costs and operating expenses are denominated in u.s. dollars. periodically, we use foreign currency forward and/or option contracts to hedge certain forecasted foreign currency transactions to reduce variability in cost of service revenue and operating expenses caused by non-u.s. dollar denominated operating expense and costs. in designing a specific hedging approach, we consider several factors, including offsetting exposures, significance of exposures, costs associated with entering into a particular hedge instrument, and potential effectiveness of the hedge. these derivatives are designated as cash flow hedges and have maturities of less than one year. the effective portion of the derivative's gain or loss is initially reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and, upon occurrence of the forecasted transaction, is subsequently reclassified into the line item in the consolidated statements of operations to which the hedged transaction relates. we record the ineffectiveness of the hedging instruments, which was immaterial during the years ended december 31, 2012 , 2011 , and 2010 , respectively, in other (expense) income, net on our consolidated statements of operations. the change in operating expenses including cost of service revenue, r&amp;d, sales and marketing, and g&amp;a expenses, due to foreign currency fluctuations was approximately 1.5%, 1%, and 1% in 2012 , 2011 , and 2010 , respectively. if overall foreign currency exchange rates in comparison to the u.s. dollar uniformly change by 10%, the amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities we would report in u.s. dollars as of december 31, 2012 and 2011 would change by less than 1%, assuming constant foreign currency cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances. equity price risk our portfolio of publicly-traded equity securities and our non-qualified deferred compensation ( nqdc ) plan, which may also hold publicly-traded equity securities, are inherently exposed to equity price risk as the stock market fluctuates. our publicly-traded equity securities are classified as available-for-sale securities on our consolidated balance sheets. investments under the nqdc plan are considered trading securities and are also reported at fair value on our consolidated balance sheets. we do not purchase our publicly-traded equity securities with the intent to use them for speculative purposes. as of december 31, 2012 and 2011 , the total investments under the nqdc plan were $12.6 million and $9.3 million, respectively. a 50 table of contents hypothetical 30% adverse change on the total investments under the nqdc plan as of december 31, 2012 and 2011 would result in an immaterial loss. we have also invested in privately-held companies. these investments are carried at cost. in 2012 and 2011, we recorded impairment charges of $ 20.0 million and $1.8 million, respectively, on our investments in privately-held companies that we judged to be other than temporary as discussed in note 5, fair value measurements , in notes to consolidated financial statements in item 8 of part ii of this report. there were no such charges in 2010. the aggregate cost of our investments in privately-held companies was $32.0 million and $51.8 million as of december 31, 2012 and 2011 , respectively. 51 table of contentsrisk factors 15 risk factors factors that may affect future results investments in our securities involve significant risks. even small changes in investor expectations for our future growth and earnings, whether as a result of actual or rumored financial or operating results, changes in the mix of the products and services sold, acquisitions, industry changes, or other factors, could trigger, and have triggered in the past, significant fluctuations in the market price of our common stock. investors in our securities should carefully consider all of the relevant factors disclosed by us, including, but not limited to, the following factors, that could affect our business, operating results and stock price. our quarterly results are unpredictable and subject to substantial fluctuations; as a result, we may fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. our revenues and operating results may vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control and any of which may cause our stock price to fluctuate. the factors that may cause our quarterly results to vary quarter by quarter and be unpredictable include, but are not limited to: limited visibility into customer spending plans, changes in the mix of products and services sold, changes in the mix of geographies in which our products and services are sold, changing market and economic conditions, current and potential customer consolidation, competition, customer concentration, long sales and implementation cycles, unpredictable ordering patterns, changes in the amount and frequency of share repurchases or dividends, regional economic and political conditions, and seasonality. for example, we, and many companies in our industry, experience adverse seasonal fluctuations in customer spending, particularly in the first quarter. furthermore market trends, competitive pressures, commoditization of products, seasonal rebates, increased component or shipping costs, regulatory impacts and other factors may result in reductions in revenue or pressure on gross margins of certain segments in a given period, which may necessitate adjustments to our operations. such adjustments may be difficult or impossible to execute in the short or medium term. as a result of these factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of operating results are not necessarily a good indication of what our future performance will be. it is likely that in some future quarters, our operating results may be below our guidance, our long-term financial model or the expectations of securities analysts or investors, in which case the price of our common stock may decline. such a decline could occur, and has occurred in the past, even when we have met our publicly stated revenues and/or earnings guidance. fluctuating economic conditions make it difficult to predict revenues for a particular period and a shortfall in revenues or increase in costs of production may harm our operating results. our revenues and gross margin depend significantly on general economic conditions and the demand for products in the markets in which we compete. economic weakness, customer financial difficulties, and constrained spending on network expansion and enterprise infrastructure have in the past resulted in, and may in the future result in, decreased revenues and earnings. such factors could make it difficult to accurately forecast sales and operating results and could negatively affect our ability to provide accurate forecasts to our contract manufacturers and manage our contract manufacturer relationships and other expenses. in addition, economic uncertainty concerns over the sovereign debt situation in certain countries in the european union, as well as continued turmoil in the geopolitical environment in many parts of the world, have, and may continue to, put pressure on global economic conditions, which has led, and could continue to lead, to reduced demand for our products, to delays or reductions in network expansions or infrastructure projects, and/or higher costs of production. economic weakness may also lead to longer collection cycles for payments due from our customers, an increase in customer bad debt, restructuring initiatives and associated expenses, and impairment of investments. furthermore, instability in the global credit markets may adversely impact the ability of our customers to adequately fund their expected capital expenditures, which could lead to delays or cancellations of planned purchases of our products or services. our operating expenses are largely based on anticipated revenue trends and a high percentage of our expenses is, and will continue to be, fixed in the short and medium term. therefore, fluctuations in revenue could cause significant variations in our operating results and operating margins from quarter to quarter. uncertainty about future economic conditions also makes it difficult to forecast operating results and to make decisions about future investments. future or continued economic weakness, failure of our customers and markets to recover from such weakness, customer financial difficulties, increases in costs of production, and reductions in spending on network maintenance and expansion could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and consequently on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 15 table of contents a limited number of our customers comprise a significant portion of our revenues and there is an ongoing trend toward consolidation in the industry in which our customers and partners operate. any decrease in revenues from our customers or partners could have an adverse effect on our net revenues and operating results. a substantial majority of our net revenues depend on sales to a limited number of customers and distribution partners. for example, verizon accounted for greater than 10% of our net revenues during 2012. changes in the business requirements, vendor selection, financial prospects, capital resources, and expenditures, or purchasing behavior (including product mix purchased) of our key customers could significantly decrease our sales to such customers or could lead to delays or cancellations of planned purchases of our products or services, which increases the risk of quarterly fluctuations in our revenues and operating results. any of these factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition, in recent years, there has been movement towards consolidation in the telecommunications industry (for example, the acquisitions of global crossing by level 3 communications and qwest communications by centurylink and softbank's purchase of a controlling interest in sprint nextel) and that consolidation trend has continued. if our customers or partners are parties to consolidation transactions they may delay, suspend or indefinitely reduce or cancel their purchases of our products or other unforeseen consequences could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. the long sales and implementation cycles for our products, as well as our expectation that some customers will sporadically place large orders with short lead times, may cause our revenues and operating results to vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter. a customer's decision to purchase certain of our products, particularly new products, involves a significant commitment of its resources and a lengthy evaluation and product qualification process. as a result, the sales cycle may be lengthy. in particular, customers making critical decisions regarding the design and implementation of large network deployments may engage in very lengthy procurement processes that may delay or impact expected future orders. throughout the sales cycle, we may spend considerable time educating and providing information to prospective customers regarding the use and benefits of our products. even after making the decision to purchase, customers may deploy our products slowly and deliberately. timing of deployment can vary widely and depends on the skill set of the customer, the size of the network deployment, the complexity of the customer's network environment, and the degree of hardware and operating system configuration necessary to deploy the products. customers with large networks usually expand their networks in large increments on a periodic basis. accordingly, we may receive purchase orders for significant dollar amounts on an irregular basis. these long cycles, as well as our expectation that customers will tend to sporadically place large orders with short lead times, both of which may be exacerbated by the impact of continued global economic weakness, may cause revenues and operating results to vary significantly and unexpectedly from quarter-to-quarter. we face intense competition that could reduce our revenues and adversely affect our business and financial results. competition is intense in the markets that we address. the psd market has historically been dominated by cisco, with competition coming from other companies such as alcatel-lucent, brocade, extreme networks, hewlett packard company, and huawei. in the ssd market, we face intense competition from the above companies as well as companies such as check point, cisco, f5 networks, fortinet, and palo alto networks. further, a number of other small public and private companies have products or have announced plans for new products to address the same challenges and markets that our products address. in addition, actual or speculated consolidation among competitors, or the acquisition of our partners and/or resellers by competitors, can increase the competitive pressures faced by us as customers may delay spending decisions or not purchase our products at all. for example, in 2013, oracle acquired acme packet, inc., and cisco acquired meraki networks, inc. and sourcefire, inc., which further consolidated our market. a number of our competitors have substantially greater resources and can offer a wider range of products and services for the overall network equipment market than we do. if we are unable to compete successfully against existing and future competitors on the basis of product offerings or price, we could experience a loss in market share and revenues and/or be required to reduce prices, which could reduce our gross margins, and which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we expect our gross margins to vary over time, and the level of product gross margins achieved by us in recent years may not be sustainable. we expect our product gross margins to vary from quarter-to-quarter, and the gross margins we have achieved in recent years may not be sustainable and may be adversely affected in the future by numerous factors, including customer, product and geographic mix shifts, increased price competition in one or more of the markets in which we compete, increases in material or labor costs, increases in inventory carrying costs, excess product component or obsolescence charges from our contract manufacturers, increased costs due to changes in component pricing or charges incurred due to component holding periods if we do not accurately 16 table of contents forecast product demand, warranty related issues, or our introduction of new products or entry into new markets with different pricing and cost structures. for example, in the third quarter of 2012, our margins declined as a result of an inventory charge resulting from inventory we held in excess of forecasted demand. we determine our operating expenses largely on the basis of anticipated revenues and a high percentage of our expenses are fixed in the short and medium term. as a result, a failure or delay in generating or recognizing revenue could cause significant variations in our operating results and operating margin from quarter-to-quarter. failure to sustain or improve our gross margins reduces our profitability and may have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. further, we recently announced an iop to reduce our operating expenses and to focus on cost controls. we expect that our margins will, accordingly, vary with our ability to achieve the goals of the iop. we can provide no assurance that we will meet our announced expectations, in whole or in part or that our plans will have the intended effects of improving our margins. to the extent we receive product orders late in a quarter, we may be unable to recognize revenue for these orders in the same period, which could adversely affect our quarterly revenues. generally, our psd products are not stocked by distributors or resellers due to their cost and complexity and the custom nature of configurations required by our customers; we generally build such products as orders are received. in recent years, the volume of orders received late in any given fiscal quarter has generally continued to increase but remains unpredictable. if orders for certain products are received late in any quarter, we may not be able to recognize revenue for these orders in the same period, which could adversely affect our ability to meet our expected revenues for such quarter. additionally, we determine our operating expenses largely on the basis of anticipated revenues and a high percentage of our expenses are fixed in the short and medium term. as a result, a failure or delay in generating or recognizing revenue could cause significant variations in our operating results and operating margin from quarter-to-quarter. we are dependent on sole source and limited source suppliers for several key components, which makes us susceptible to shortages or price fluctuations in our supply chain, and we may face increased challenges in supply chain management in the future. we rely on single or limited sources of certain of our components. during periods of high demand for electronic products, component shortages are possible, and the predictability of the availability of such components may be limited. any future growth in our business, it spending and the economy in general is likely to create greater pressures on us and our suppliers to accurately forecast overall component demand and to establish optimal component inventories. if shortages or delays persist, the price of these components may increase, or the components may not be available at all. we may not be able to secure enough components at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build new products in a timely manner, and our revenues and gross margins could suffer until other sources can be developed. for example, from time to time, we have experienced component shortages that resulted in delays of product shipments. we currently purchase numerous key components, including asics, from single or limited sources. the development of alternate sources for those components is time-consuming, difficult, and costly. in addition, the lead times associated with certain components are lengthy and preclude rapid changes in quantities and delivery schedules. also, long-term supply and maintenance obligations to customers increase the duration for which specific components are required, which may further increase the risk of component shortages or the cost of carrying inventory. in the event of a component shortage or supply interruption from these suppliers, we may not be able to develop alternate or second sources in a timely manner. if we are unable to buy these components in quantities sufficient to meet our requirements on a timely basis, we will not be able to deliver products and services to our customers, which would seriously affect present and future sales, which would, in turn, adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition, the development, licensing, or acquisition of new products in the future may increase the complexity of supply chain management. failure to effectively manage the supply of key components and products would adversely affect our business. we rely on value-added and other resellers, as well as distribution partners, to sell our products, and disruptions to, or our failure to effectively develop and manage, our distribution channel and the processes and procedures that support it could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues from the sale of our products. our future success is highly dependent upon establishing and maintaining successful relationships with a variety of value-added and other reseller and distribution partners, including our worldwide strategic partners such as ericsson, ibm, and nsn. the majority of our revenues are derived through value-added resellers and distributors, most of which also sell our competitors' products, and some of which sell their own competing products. our revenues depend in part on the performance of these partners. the loss of or reduction in sales to our resellers or distributors could materially reduce our revenues. for example, in 2011 and 2012, one of our oem partners, dell, acquired force10 and sonicwall, both competitors of ours. as a result, dell became increasingly competitive in certain areas, their resale of our products declined, and we ultimately terminated our oem relationship 17 table of contents with dell. our competitors may in some cases be effective in leveraging their market share positions or in providing incentives to current or potential resellers and distributors to favor their products or to prevent or reduce sales of our products. if we fail to develop and maintain relationships with our partners, fail to develop new relationships with value-added resellers and distributors in new markets, fail to expand the number of distributors and resellers in existing markets, fail to manage, train or motivate existing value-added resellers and distributors effectively, or if these partners are not successful in their sales efforts, sales of our products may decrease, and our business, financial condition, and results of operations would suffer. in addition, we recognize a portion of our revenues based on a sell-through model using information provided by our distributors. if those distributors provide us with inaccurate or untimely information, the amount or timing of our revenues could be adversely impacted. further, in order to develop and expand our distribution channel, we must continue to offer attractive channel programs to potential partners and scale and improve our processes and procedures that support the channel. as a result, our programs, processes and procedures may become increasingly complex and inherently difficult to manage. we have previously entered into oem agreements with partners pursuant to which they rebrand and resell our products as part of their product portfolios. these types of relationships are complex and require additional processes and procedures that may be challenging and costly to implement, maintain and manage. our failure to successfully manage and develop our distribution channel and the programs, processes and procedures that support it could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues from the sale of our products. our ability to process orders and ship products in a timely manner is dependent in part on our business systems and performance of the systems and processes of third parties such as our contract manufacturers, suppliers, or other partners, as well as the interfaces between our systems and the systems of such third parties. if our systems, the systems and processes of those third parties, or the interfaces between them experience delays or fail, our business processes and our ability to build and ship products could be impacted, and our financial results could be harmed. some of our business processes depend upon our information technology ("it") systems, the systems and processes of third parties, and the interfaces of our systems with the systems of third parties. for example, our order entry system feeds information into the systems of our contract manufacturers, which enables them to build and ship our products. if those systems fail or are interrupted, our processes may function at a diminished level or not at all. this could negatively impact our ability to ship products or otherwise operate our business, and our financial results could be harmed. for example, although it did not adversely affect our shipments, an earthquake in late december of 2006 disrupted our communications with china, where a significant part of our manufacturing occurs. in addition, as discussed later in this "risk factors" section, beginning in 2012 and we expect, continuing into 2015, we have been implementing major changes to our enterprise resource planning ("erp") system. any failure of the new system or interruptions during the transition may impair communications with our manufacturers, and, therefore, adversely affect our ability to build and ship our products. we also rely upon the performance of the systems and processes of our contract manufacturers to build and ship our products. if those systems and processes experience interruption or delay, our ability to build and ship our products in a timely manner may be harmed. for example, we have experienced instances where our contract manufacturers were not able to ship products in the time periods expected by us, which prevented us from meeting our commitments to our customers. if we are not able to ship our products or if product shipments are delayed, our ability to recognize revenue in a timely manner for those products would be affected and our financial results could be harmed. telecommunications and content service provider companies and our other large customers generally require onerous terms and conditions in our contracts with them. as we seek to sell more products to such customers, we may be required to agree to terms and conditions that could have an adverse effect on our business or ability to recognize revenues. telecommunications and content service provider companies, which comprise a significant portion of our customer base, and other large companies, because of their size, generally have greater purchasing power than smaller entities and, accordingly, often request and receive more favorable terms from suppliers, which often translate into more onerous terms and conditions applicable to us. recently, our customers, france telecom-orange and deutsche telekom ag have formed a company for the purpose of purchasing products from, and negotiating more favorable contractual terms with, suppliers. as we seek to sell more products to this class of customer, we may be required to agree to such terms and conditions, which may include terms that affect the timing of our ability to recognize revenue and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. consolidation among such large customers can further increase their buying power and ability to require onerous terms. in addition, service providers have purchased products from other vendors who promised but failed to deliver certain functionality and/or had products that caused problems or outages in the networks of these customers. as a result, these customers may request additional features from us and require substantial penalties for failure to deliver such features or may require substantial penalties 18 table of contents for any network outages that may be caused by our products. these additional requests and penalties, if we are required to agree to them, may require us to defer revenue recognition from such sales, which may negatively affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. system security risks, data protection breaches, and cyber-attacks could compromise our proprietary information, disrupt our internal operations and harm public perception of our products, which could cause our business and reputation to suffer and adversely affect our stock price. in the ordinary course of business, we store sensitive data, including intellectual property, our proprietary business information and that of our customers, suppliers and business partners on our networks. the secure maintenance of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy. increasingly, companies, including juniper networks, are subject to a wide variety of attacks on their networks on an ongoing basis. despite our security measures, juniper networks' information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to penetration or attacks by computer programmers and hackers, or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. any such breach could compromise our networks, creating system disruptions or slowdowns and exploiting security vulnerabilities of our products, and the information stored on our networks could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen, which could subject us to liability to our customers, suppliers, business partners and others, and cause us reputational and financial harm. in addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that we produce or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including "bugs" and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of our networks. if an actual or perceived breach of network security occurs in our network or in the network of a customer of our products, regardless of whether the breach is attributable to our products, the market perception of the effectiveness of our products could be harmed. because the techniques used by computer programmers and hackers, many of whom are highly sophisticated and well-funded, to access or sabotage networks change frequently and generally are not recognized until after they are used, we may be unable to anticipate or immediately detect these techniques. this could impede our sales, manufacturing, distribution or other critical functions. in addition, the economic costs to us to eliminate or alleviate cyber or other security problems, bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software systems and security vulnerabilities could be significant and may be difficult to anticipate or measure because the damage may differ based on the identity and motive of the programmer or hacker, which are often difficult to identify. regulation of industry and the telecommunications industry in particular could harm our operating results and future prospects. we are subject to laws and regulations affecting the sale of our products in a number of areas. for example, some governments have regulations prohibiting government entities from purchasing security products that do not meet specified indigenous certification criteria, even though those criteria may be in conflict with accepted international standards. other regulations that may negatively impact our business include country of origin regulations. these types of regulations are in effect or under consideration in several jurisdictions where we do business. the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act includes disclosure requirements regarding the use of conflict minerals mined from the democratic republic of congo and adjoining countries ( drc ) and procedures regarding a manufacturer's efforts to prevent the sourcing of such conflict minerals. these minerals are present in our products. sec rules implementing these requirements may have the effect of reducing the pool of suppliers who can supply drc conflict free components and parts, and we may not be able to obtain drc conflict free products or supplies in sufficient quantities for our operations. since our supply chain is complex, we may face reputational challenges with our customers, stockholders and other stakeholders if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for the "conflict minerals used in our products. in addition, environmental regulations relevant to electronic equipment manufacturing or operations may impact our business and financial condition adversely. for instance, the european union and china have adopted weee and rohs regulations, which require producers of electrical and electronic equipment to assume responsibility for collecting, treating, recycling and disposing of products when they have reached the end of their useful life, as well as reach regulations, which regulate handling of certain chemical substances that may be used in our products. the traditional telecommunications industry is highly regulated, and our business and financial condition could be adversely affected by changes in regulations relating to the internet telecommunications industry. currently, there are few laws or regulations that apply directly to access to or commerce on ip networks, but future regulations could include sales taxes on products sold via the internet and internet service provider access charges. we could be adversely affected by regulation of ip networks and commerce in any country where we market equipment and services to service or content providers. regulations governing the range of services and business models that can be offered by service providers or content providers could adversely affect those customers' needs for products designed to enable a wide range of such services or business models. for instance, the u.s. federal communications commission has issued regulations governing aspects of fixed broadband networks and wireless networks; these 19 table of contents regulations might impact service provider and content provider business models and as such, providers' needs for internet telecommunications equipment and services. also, many jurisdictions are evaluating or implementing regulations relating to cyber security, supply chain integrity, privacy and data protection, any of which can affect the market and requirements for networking and security equipment. the adoption and implementation of such regulations could reduce demand for our products, increase the cost of building and selling our products, result in product inventory write-offs, impact our ability to ship products into affected areas and recognize revenue in a timely manner and require us to spend significant time and expense to comply, and we could face fines and civil or criminal sanctions or claims if we were to violate or become liable under such regulations. any of these impacts could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. governmental regulations affecting the import or export of products or affecting products containing encryption capabilities could negatively affect our revenues. certain of our products contain or use encryption technology. the united states and various foreign governments have imposed controls, export license requirements, and restrictions on the import or export, among other things, encryption technology. in addition, from time to time, governmental agencies have proposed additional regulation of encryption technology, such as requiring certification, notifications, review of source code, or the escrow and governmental recovery of private encryption keys. for example, russia and china recently have implemented new requirements relating to products containing encryption and india has imposed special warranty and other obligations associated with technology deemed critical. governmental regulation of encryption or ip networking technology and regulation of imports or exports, or our failure to obtain required import or export approval for our products, could harm our international and domestic sales and adversely affect our revenues. in addition, failure to comply with such regulations could result in harm to our reputation, penalties, costs, and restrictions on import or export privileges or adversely affect sales to government agencies or government-funded projects. if we do not successfully anticipate technological shifts, market needs and opportunities, and develop products and product enhancements that meet those technological shifts, needs and opportunities, or if those products are not made available in a timely manner or do not gain market acceptance, we may not be able to compete effectively and our ability to generate revenues will suffer. we cannot guarantee that we will be able to anticipate future technological shifts, market needs and opportunities or be able to develop new products or product enhancements to meet such technological shifts, needs or opportunities in a timely manner or at all. for example, the move from traditional network infrastructures towards sdn has been receiving considerable attention. in our view, it will take several years to see the full impact of sdn, and we believe the successful products and solutions in this market will combine hardware and software elements together. if we fail to anticipate market requirements or fail to develop and introduce new products or product enhancements to meet those needs in a timely manner, it could cause us to lose customers, and such failure could substantially decrease or delay market acceptance and sales of our present and future products, which would significantly harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. even if we are able to anticipate, develop, and commercially introduce new products and enhancements, there can be no assurance that new products or enhancements will achieve widespread market acceptance. in addition, in the past two years, we announced new products, including the qfx3000-m qfabric system, t4000 core router, ex9200 ethernet switch, mx series routers, ptx 3000 packet transport router, and juniper networks contrail. if these or other new products do not gain market acceptance at a sufficient rate of growth, our ability to meet future financial targets may be adversely affected. in addition, if we fail to achieve market acceptance at a sufficient rate of growth, our ability to meet future financial targets and aspirations may be adversely affected. finally, if we fail to deliver new or announced products to the market in a timely manner, it could adversely affect the market acceptance of those products and harm our competitive position and our business and financial results. our ability to develop, market, and sell products could be harmed if we are unable to retain or hire key personnel. our future success depends upon our ability to recruit and retain the services of executive, engineering, sales and marketing, and support personnel. the supply of highly qualified individuals, in particular engineers in very specialized technical areas, or sales people specializing in the service provider and enterprise markets, is limited and competition for such individuals is intense. none of our officers or key employees is bound by an employment agreement for any specific term. in january 2014, shaygan kheradpir became the new ceo of the company, succeeding kevin johnson, who had served as our ceo since september 2008. the loss of the services of any of our key employees, the inability to attract or retain personnel in the future or delays in hiring required personnel, engineers and sales people, and the complexity and time involved in replacing or training new employees, could delay the development and introduction of new products, and negatively impact our ability to market, sell, or support our products. 20 table of contents we are a party to lawsuits, investigations, proceedings, and other disputes, which are costly to defend and, if determined adversely to us, could require us to pay fines or damages, undertake remedial measures or prevent us from taking certain actions, any or all of which could harm our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. we, and certain of our current and former officers and current and former members of our board of directors, are subject to various lawsuits. we have been served with lawsuits related to employment matters, commercial transactions and patent infringement, as well as securities laws. a description of the securities lawsuits can be found in note 16, commitments and contingencies , in notes to consolidated financial statements of this report, under the heading legal proceedings. in addition, as noted under the heading of legal proceedings , the u.s. securities and exchange commission and the u.s. department of justice are conducting investigations into possible violations by the company of the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act. litigation and investigations are inherently uncertain. we therefore cannot predict the duration, scope, outcome or consequences of these matters. there can be no assurance that these or any actions or investigations that have been or may in the future be brought against us, our officers, and our directors will be resolved favorably. in connection with any government investigations, in the event the government takes action against us or the parties enter into an agreement to settle the matter, we may be required to pay substantial fines and/or incur other sanctions. the lawsuits and investigations are likely to be expensive and time-consuming to defend, settle, and/or resolve, and may require us to implement certain remedial measures that could prove costly or disruptive to our business and operations. the unfavorable resolution of one or more of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. we are a party to litigation and claims regarding intellectual property rights, resolution of which may be time - consuming and expensive, as well as require a significant amount of resources to prosecute, defend, or make our products non-infringing. our industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent claims and related litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. we expect that infringement claims may increase as the number of products and competitors in our market increases and overlaps occur. third parties have asserted and may in the future assert claims or initiate litigation related to patent, copyright, trademark, and other intellectual property rights to technologies and related standards that are relevant to our products. the asserted claims and/or initiated litigation may include claims against us or our manufacturers, suppliers, partners, or customers, alleging that our products or services infringe proprietary rights. regardless of the merit of these claims, they have been and can be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, and may require us to develop non-infringing technologies or enter into license agreements, or to cease engaging in certain activities or offering certain products or services. furthermore, because of the potential for high awards of damages or injunctive relief that are not necessarily predictable, even arguably unmeritorious claims may be settled for significant amounts of money. if any infringement or other intellectual property claim made against us by any third-party is successful, if we are required to settle litigation for significant amounts of money, or if we fail to develop non-infringing technology or license required proprietary rights on commercially reasonable terms and conditions, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. our financial condition and results of operations could suffer if there is an additional impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets with indefinite lives. we are required to test intangible assets with indefinite lives, including goodwill, annually and on an interim basis if an event occurs or there is a change in circumstance that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of reporting units and intangible assets below their carrying values. as of december 31, 2013 , our goodwill was $4,057.7 million and there were no intangible assets with indefinite lives. when the carrying value of a reporting unit's goodwill exceeds its implied fair value of goodwill, a charge to operations is recorded. if the carrying amount of an intangible asset with an indefinite life exceeds its fair value, a charge to operations is recognized. either event would result in incremental expenses for that quarter, which would reduce any earnings or increase any loss for the period in which the impairment was determined to have occurred. in the past, we experienced a reduction of $1,280.0 million to the carrying value of goodwill on our consolidated balance sheets, primarily due to the decline in our market capitalization that occurred over a period of approximately nine months prior to the impairment review and, to a lesser extent, to a decrease in forecasted future cash flows. in recent years, economic weakness has contributed to extreme price and volume fluctuations in global stock markets that have reduced the market price of many technology company stocks, including ours. declines in our level of revenues or operating margins, as well as sustained declines in our stock price, increase the risk that goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives may become impaired in future periods. during the three months ended september 30, 2013, we concluded that there were sufficient indicators to require us to perform an interim goodwill impairment analysis on our ssd segment. based on our analysis, we determined that our ssd segment's goodwill is not impaired. however, our analysis is sensitive to changes in key assumptions used in our analysis, such as expected 21 table of contents future cash flows, the degree of volatility in equity and debt markets, and our stock price. if the assumptions used in our analysis are not realized, it is possible that an impairment charge may need to be recorded in the future. we cannot accurately predict the amount and timing of any impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets. however, any such impairment would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. changes in effective tax rates or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income or other tax returns could adversely affect our results. our future effective tax rates could be subject to volatility or adversely affected by: earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated earnings in countries where we have higher statutory rates; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; expiration of, or lapses in, the r&amp;d tax credit laws applicable to us; transfer pricing adjustments related to certain acquisitions, including the license of acquired intangibles under our intercompany r&amp;d cost sharing arrangement; costs related to intercompany restructuring; tax effects of share-based compensation; or changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles, or interpretations thereof. in addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the internal revenue service and other tax authorities. we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. there can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. if we fail to accurately predict our manufacturing requirements, we could incur additional costs or experience manufacturing delays, which would harm our business. we provide demand forecasts to our contract manufacturers and the manufacturers order components and plan capacity based on these forecasts. if we overestimate our requirements, our contract manufacturers may assess charges, or we may have liabilities for excess inventory, each of which could negatively affect our gross margins. for example, in the third quarter of 2012, our gross margins were reduced as a result of an inventory charge resulting from inventory we held in excess of forecasted demand. conversely, because lead times for required materials and components vary significantly and depend on factors such as the specific supplier, contract terms, and the demand for each component at a given time, and because our contract manufacturers are third-party manufacturers for numerous other companies, if we underestimate our requirements, as we did in the third quarter of 2010 with respect to certain components, our contract manufacturers may have inadequate time, materials, and/or components required to produce our products, which could increase costs or could delay or interrupt manufacturing of our products and result in delays in shipments and deferral or loss of revenues. we are dependent on contract manufacturers with whom we do not have long-term supply contracts, and changes to those relationships, expected or unexpected, may result in delays or disruptions that could cause us to lose revenues and damage our customer relationships. we depend on independent contract manufacturers (each of which is a third-party manufacturer for numerous companies) to manufacture our products. although we have contracts with our contract manufacturers, these contracts do not require them to manufacture our products on a long-term basis in any specific quantity or at any specific price. in addition, it is time-consuming and costly to qualify and implement additional contract manufacturer relationships. therefore, if we fail to effectively manage our contract manufacturer relationships, which includes failing to provide accurate forecasts of our requirements, or if one or more of them experiences delays, disruptions, or quality control problems in our manufacturing operations, or if we had to change or add additional contract manufacturers or contract manufacturing sites, our ability to ship products to our customers could be delayed. also, the addition of manufacturing locations or contract manufacturers would increase the complexity of our supply chain management. moreover, an increasing portion of our manufacturing is performed in china and other countries and is therefore subject to risks associated with doing business in other countries. in addition, in 2013, we reduced the number of our contract manufacturers and transitioned the work of one manufacturer to two of our other existing manufacturers. if we do not manage the recent transition effectively, we could experience delays or quality issues. each of these factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. upgrades to key internal systems and processes, and problems with the design or implementation of these systems and processes could interfere with, and therefore harm, our business and operations. we previously initiated a multi-year project to upgrade certain key internal systems and processes, including our company-wide human resources management system, our customer relationship management ( crm ) system and enterprise resource planning ("erp") system. in the first quarter of 2010, we implemented a major upgrade of our crm system. since 2012, we have been implementing major changes to our erp system, which activities we expect to continue into 2015. we have invested, and will continue to invest, significant capital and human resources in the design and implementation of these systems and processes. any 22 table of contents disruptions or delays in the design and implementation of the new systems or processes, particularly any disruptions or delays that impact our operations, could adversely affect our ability to process customer orders, ship products, provide service and support to our customers, bill and track our customers, fulfill contractual obligations, record and transfer information in a timely and accurate manner, file sec reports in a timely manner, or otherwise run our business. even if we do not encounter these adverse effects, the design and implementation of these new systems and processes may be much more costly than we anticipated. if we are unable to successfully design and implement these new systems and processes as planned, or if the implementation of these systems and processes is more costly than anticipated, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be negatively impacted. we may face difficulties enforcing our proprietary rights. we generally rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secret laws and restrictions on disclosure of confidential and proprietary information, to establish and maintain proprietary rights in our technology and products. although we have been issued numerous patents and other patent applications are currently pending, there can be no assurance that any of our patent applications will result in issued patents or that any of our patents or other proprietary rights will not be challenged, invalidated, infringed or circumvented or that our rights will, in fact, provide competitive advantages to us or protect our technology, any of which could result in costly product redesign efforts, discontinuance of certain product offerings and other competitive harm. furthermore, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. the outcome of any actions taken in these foreign countries may be different than if such actions were determined under the laws of the united states. although we are not dependent on any individual patents or group of patents for particular segments of the business for which we compete, if we are unable to protect our proprietary rights in a market, we may find ourselves at a competitive disadvantage to others who need not incur the substantial expense, time, and effort required to create innovative products that have enabled our success. our success depends upon our ability to effectively plan and manage our resources and restructure our business through rapidly fluctuating economic and market conditions. our ability to successfully offer our products and services in a rapidly evolving market requires an effective planning, forecasting, and management process to enable us to effectively scale and adjust our business in response to fluctuating market opportunities and conditions. in periods of market expansion, we have increased investment in our business by, for example, increasing headcount and increasing our investment in r&amp;d, sales and marketing, and other parts of our business. conversely, in the third quarter of 2012, to align our cost structure with long-term strategic plans as part of our productivity and efficiency initiatives, we restructured our business, rebalanced our workforce, and reduced our real estate portfolio. similarly, in connection with our recently announced iop, we expect to initiate a substantial cost reduction plan accomplished through various restructuring activities across research and development, sales and marking and general and administrative expenses. many of our expenses, such as real estate expenses, are fixed costs that cannot be rapidly or easily adjusted in response to fluctuations in our business or numbers of employees. moreover, rapid changes in the size of our workforce could adversely affect our ability to develop and deliver products and services as planned or impair our ability to realize our current or future business objectives. our ability to achieve the anticipated cost savings and other benefits from our restructuring initiatives within the expected time frame is subject to many estimates and assumptions. these estimates and assumptions are subject to significant economic, competitive and other uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. if these estimates and assumptions are incorrect, if we are unsuccessful at implementing changes, or if other unforeseen events occur, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. we are subject to risks arising from our international operations, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we derive a majority of our revenues from our international operations, and we plan to continue expanding our business in international markets in the future. we conduct significant sales and customer support operations directly and indirectly through our distributors and vars in countries throughout the world and depend on the operations of our contract manufacturers and suppliers that are located outside of the united states. in addition, a portion of our r&amp;d and our general and administrative operations are conducted outside the united states. in some countries, we may experience reduced intellectual property protection. 23 table of contents as a result of our international operations, we are affected by economic, regulatory, social, and political conditions in foreign countries, including the following: changes in general it spending, the imposition of government controls, inclusive of critical infrastructure protection; changes or limitations in trade protection laws or other regulatory requirements, which may affect our ability to import or export our products from various countries; and the impact of the following on service provider and government spending patterns: political considerations, unfavorable changes in tax treaties or laws, natural disasters, epidemic disease, labor unrest, earnings expatriation restrictions, misappropriation of intellectual property, military actions, acts of terrorism, political and social unrest and difficulties in staffing and managing international operations. any or all of these factors could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. moreover, local laws and customs in many countries differ significantly from or conflict with those in the united states or in other countries in which we operate. in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common for others to engage in business practices that are prohibited by our internal policies and procedures or united states regulations applicable to us. there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, channel partners, and agents will not take actions in violation of our policies and procedures, which are designed to ensure compliance with u.s. and foreign laws and policies. violations of laws or key control policies by our employees, contractors, channel partners, or agents could result in termination of our relationship, financial reporting problems, fines, and/or penalties for us, or prohibition on the importation or exportation of our products, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. because a majority of our business is conducted outside the united states, we face exposure to adverse movements in non-u.s. currency exchange rates. these exposures may change over time as business practices evolve and could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. the majority of our revenues and expenses are transacted in u.s. dollars. we also have some transactions that are denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the british pound, euro, indian rupee, and japanese yen related to our sales and service operations outside of the united states. an increase in the value of the u.s. dollar could increase the real cost to our customers of our products in those markets outside the united states in which we sell in u.s. dollars, and a weakened u.s. dollar could increase the cost of local operating expenses and procurement of raw materials to the extent we must purchase components in foreign currencies. currently, we hedge only those currency exposures associated with certain assets and liabilities denominated in nonfunctional currencies and periodically hedge anticipated foreign currency cash flows. the hedging activities undertaken by us are intended to offset the impact of currency fluctuations on certain nonfunctional currency assets and liabilities. however, such attempts to offset the impact of currency fluctuations are costly and no amount of hedging can be effective against all circumstances, including long-term declines in the value of the u.s. dollar. if our attempts to hedge against these risks are not successful, or if long-term declines in the value of the u.s. dollar persist, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted. integration of acquisitions could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition and stock price and may dilute the ownership of our stockholders. we have made, and may continue to make, acquisitions in order to enhance our business. for example, in 2014, we acquired wandl, inc. and in 2012, we acquired contrail systems inc. ("contrail") and mykonos. acquisitions involve numerous risks, including problems combining the purchased operations, technologies or products, unanticipated costs and liabilities, diversion of management's attention from our core businesses, adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers, risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience, and potential loss of key employees. there can be no assurance that we will be able to integrate successfully any businesses, products, technologies, or personnel that we might acquire. the integration of businesses that we may acquire is likely to be a complex, time-consuming, and expensive process and we may not realize the anticipated revenues or other benefits associated with our acquisitions if we fail to successfully manage and operate the acquired business. if we fail in any acquisition integration efforts and are unable to efficiently operate as a combined 24 table of contents organization utilizing common information and communication systems, operating procedures, financial controls, and human resources practices, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected. acquisitions may also require us to issue common stock or assume equity awards that dilute the ownership of our current stockholders, use a substantial portion of our cash resources, assume liabilities, record goodwill and amortizable intangible assets that will be subject to impairment testing on a regular basis and potential periodic impairment charges, incur amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets, and incur large and immediate write-offs and restructuring and other related expenses, all of which could harm our financial condition and results of operations. if we fail to adequately evolve our financial and managerial control and reporting systems and processes, our ability to manage and grow our business will be negatively affected. our ability to successfully offer our products and implement our business plan in a rapidly evolving market depends upon an effective planning and management process. we will need to continue to improve our financial and managerial control and our reporting systems and procedures in order to manage our business effectively in the future. if we fail to continue to implement improved systems and processes, our ability to manage our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be negatively affected. our products are highly technical and if they contain undetected errors or malware or do not meet customer quality expectations, our business could be adversely affected, and we may be subject to lawsuits or be required to pay damages in connection with any alleged or actual failure of our products and services. our products are highly technical and complex, are critical to the operation of many networks, and, in the case of our security products, provide and monitor network security and may protect valuable information. our products have contained and may contain one or more undetected errors, defects, malware, or security vulnerabilities. some errors in our products may only be discovered after a product has been installed and used by end-customers. any errors, defects, malware or security vulnerabilities discovered in our products after commercial release could result in monetary penalties, loss of revenues or delay in revenue recognition, loss of customers, loss of future business and reputation, penalties, and increased service and warranty cost, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition, in the event an error, defect, malware, or vulnerability is attributable to a component supplied by a third-party vendor, we may not be able to recover from the vendor all of the costs of remediation that we may incur. in addition, we could face claims for product liability, tort, or breach of warranty or indemnification. defending a lawsuit, regardless of its merit, is costly and may divert management's attention. if our business liability insurance coverage is inadequate, or future coverage is unavailable on acceptable terms or at all, our financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. moreover, if our products fail to satisfy our customers' quality expectations for whatever reason, the perception of and the demand for our products could be adversely affected. if our products do not interoperate with our customers' networks, installations will be delayed or cancelled and could harm our business. our products are designed to interface with our customers' existing networks, each of which have different specifications and utilize multiple protocol standards and products from other vendors. many of our customers' networks contain multiple generations of products that have been added over time as these networks have grown and evolved. our products must interoperate with many or all of the products within these networks as well as future products in order to meet our customers' requirements. if we find errors in the existing software or defects in the hardware used in our customers' networks, we may need to modify our software or hardware to fix or overcome these errors so that our products will interoperate and scale with the existing software and hardware, which could be costly and could negatively affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition, if our products do not interoperate with those of our customers' networks, demand for our products could be adversely affected or orders for our products could be cancelled. this could hurt our operating results, damage our reputation, and seriously harm our business and prospects. our products incorporate and rely upon licensed third-party technology, and if licenses of third-party technology do not continue to be available to us or are not available on terms acceptable to us, our revenues and ability to develop and introduce new products could be adversely affected. we integrate licensed third-party technology into certain of our products. from time to time, we may be required to license additional technology from third-parties to develop new products or product enhancements. third-party licenses may not be available or continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms. the failure to comply with the terms of any license, including free open source software, may result in our inability to continue to use such license. our inability to maintain or re-license any third-party licenses required in our products or our inability to obtain third-party licenses necessary to develop new 25 table of contents products and product enhancements, could require us, if possible, to develop substitute technology or obtain substitute technology of lower quality or performance standards or at a greater cost, any of which could delay or prevent product shipment and harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we sell our products to customers that use those products to build networks and ip infrastructure, and if the demand for network and ip systems does not continue to grow, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. a substantial portion of our business and revenues depends on the growth of secure ip infrastructure and on the deployment of our products by customers that depend on the continued growth of ip services. as a result of changes in the economy, capital spending or the building of network capacity in excess of demand, all of which have in the past particularly affected telecommunications service providers, spending on ip infrastructure can vary, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition, a number of our existing customers are evaluating the build-out of their next generation networks. during the decision-making period when the customers are determining the design of those networks and the selection of the equipment they will use in those networks, such customers may greatly reduce or suspend their spending on secure ip infrastructure. such delays in purchases can make it more difficult to predict revenues from such customers can cause fluctuations in the level of spending by these customers and, even where our products are ultimately selected, can have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we are required to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, and any adverse results from such evaluation may adversely affect investor perception, our stock price and cause us to incur additional expense. section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 requires our management to report on, and our independent auditors to attest to, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. we have an ongoing program to perform the system and process evaluation and testing necessary to comply with these requirements. we have and will continue to incur significant expenses and devote management resources to section 404 compliance on an ongoing basis. in the event that our chief executive officer, chief financial officer, or independent registered public accounting firm determine in the future that, our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective as defined under section 404, investor perceptions may be adversely affected if our financial statements are not reliable and could cause a decline in the market price of our stock and otherwise negatively affect our liquidity and financial condition. failure to maintain our credit ratings could adversely affect our cost of funds and related margins, liquidity, competitive position and access to capital markets. the major debt rating agencies routinely evaluate our debt. this evaluation is based on a number of factors, which include financial strength as well as transparency with rating agencies and timeliness of financial reporting. there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our credit ratings and failure to do so could adversely affect our cost of funds and related margins, liquidity, competitive position and access to capital markets. our failure to pay quarterly dividends to our stockholders or the failure to meet our commitments to return capital to our stockholders could have a material adverse affect on our stock price. in february 2014, we announced our intention to implement payment of a quarterly dividend commencing in the third quarter of 2014. our ability to pay quarterly dividends will be subject to, among other things, our financial position and results of operations, available cash and cash flow, capital requirements and other factors. any failure to pay or increase future dividends as announced, reduction or discontinuation of quarterly dividends could have a material adverse affect on our stock price. in addition, as part of our iop, the board of directors authorized $2.0 billion in share repurchases to be executed through the end of the first quarter of 2015, including $1.2 billion through an accelerated share repurchase program to be entered into during the first quarter of 2014. the capital return plan will be funded by a combination of onshore cash and newly issued debt to preserve our financial flexibility to invest in future growth opportunities and maintain our investment grade credit rating. we can provide no assurances that we will be able to consummate the debt offering on terms acceptable to us or at all. any failure to meet our commitments to return capital to our shareholders could have an material adverse effect on our stock price. we may be unable to generate the cash flow to service our debt obligations, including the senior notes. in march 2011, we issued senior unsecured notes for an aggregate principle amount of $1.0 billion (see discussion in note 10, long-term debt and financing, in the notes to consolidated financial statements of this report). as of december 31, 2013, we had $999.3 million in outstanding long-term debt. we may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to enable us to service our 26 table of contents indebtedness, including the notes, or to make anticipated capital expenditures. our ability to pay our expenses and satisfy our debt obligations, refinance our debt obligations and fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. based upon current levels of operations, we believe cash flow from operations and available cash will be adequate for the foreseeable future to meet our anticipated requirements for working capital, capital expenditures and scheduled payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness, including the senior notes. however, if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or to borrow sufficient funds in the future to service our debt, we may be required to sell assets, reduce capital expenditures, refinance all or a portion of our existing debt (including the senior notes) or obtain additional financing. there is no assurance that we will be able to refinance our debt, sell assets or borrow more money on terms acceptable to us, or at all. the indenture that governs the senior notes also contains various covenants that limit our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to, among other things: incur liens; incur sale and leaseback transactions; and consolidate or merge with or into, or sell substantially all of our assets to, another person. as a result of these covenants, we are limited in the manner in which we can conduct our business, and we may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or capital needs. accordingly, these restrictions may limit our ability to successfully operate our business. a failure to comply with these restrictions could lead to an event of default, which could result in an acceleration of the indebtedness. our future operating results may not be sufficient to enable compliance with these covenants to remedy any such default. in addition, in the event of an acceleration, we may not have or be able to obtain sufficient funds to make any accelerated payments, including those under the senior notes and any notes issued in connection with the recently-announced capital return program discussed below. in addition, in february 2014, we announced a capital return program to be effected over three years. we expect to incur additional indebtedness to fund actions expected to be taken pursuant to that program. the investment of our cash balance and our investments in government and corporate debt securities are subject to risks, which may cause losses and affect the liquidity of these investments. at december 31, 2013 , we had $2,284.0 million in cash and cash equivalents and $1,813.8 million in short- and long-term investments. we have invested these amounts primarily in asset-backed securities, certificate of deposit, commercial paper, corporate debt securities, foreign government debt securities, government- sponsored enterprise obligations, money market funds, mutual funds, publicly-traded equity securities and u.s. government securities. certain of these investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market, sovereign debt, and interest rate risks. our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates or if the decline in fair value of our publicly traded debt or equity investments is judged to be other-than-temporary. these market risks associated with our investment portfolio may have a negative adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations. uninsured losses could harm our operating results. we self-insure against many business risks and expenses, such as intellectual property litigation and our medical benefit programs, where we believe we can adequately self-insure against the anticipated exposure and risk or where insurance is either not deemed cost-effective or is not available. we also maintain a program of insurance coverage for various types of property, casualty, and other risks. we place our insurance coverage with various carriers in numerous jurisdictions. the types and amounts of insurance that we obtain vary from time to time and from location to location, depending on availability, cost, and our decisions with respect to risk retention. the policies are subject to deductibles, policy limits, and exclusions that result in our retention of a level of risk on a self-insurance basis. losses not covered by insurance could be substantial and unpredictable and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 51 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk we maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. the value of our investments is subject to market price volatility. in addition, as of december 31, 2013 , 60% of our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities were held outside of the u.s. our marketable securities are generally classified as available-for-sale and, consequently, are recorded on our consolidated balance sheets at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income. these investments are also reviewed to identify and evaluate indications of potential other-than-temporary impairments as discussed in note 4, cash equivalents and investments, in notes to consolidated financial statements in item 8 of part ii of this report. at any time, a rise in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our investment portfolio. conversely, a decline in interest rates could have a material impact on interest income from our investment portfolio. we do not currently hedge these interest rate exposures. we recognized immaterial gains and losses during the years ended december 31, 2013 , 2012 , and 2011 , related to the sales of our investments. the following tables present hypothetical changes in fair value of our available-for-sale fixed income securities held as of december 31, 2013 and 2012 that are sensitive to changes in interest rates (in millions): valuation of securities given an interest rate decrease of x bps fair value as of december 31, 2013 valuation of securities given an interest rate increase of x bps (150 bps) (100 bps) (50 bps) 50 bps 100 bps 150 bps available-for-sale fixed income securities $ 1,741.6 $ 1,734.4 $ 1,727.1 $ 1,719.9 $ 1,712.6 $ 1,705.3 $ 1,698.1 valuation of securities given an interest rate decrease of x bps fair value as of december 31, 2012 valuation of securities given an interest rate increase of x bps (150 bps) (100 bps) (50 bps) 50 bps 100 bps 150 bps available-for-sale fixed income securities $ 1,618.8 $ 1,611.6 $ 1,604.4 $ 1,597.4 $ 1,590.0 $ 1,582.8 $ 1,575.6 these instruments are not leveraged and are held for purposes other than trading. the modeling technique used measures the changes in fair value arising from selected potential changes in interest rates. market changes reflect immediate hypothetical parallel shifts in the yield curve of plus or minus 50 basis points ( bps ), 100 bps, and 150 bps, which are representative of the historical movements in the federal funds rate. 51 table of contents foreign currency risk and foreign exchange forward contracts periodically, we use derivatives to hedge against fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. we do not enter into derivatives for speculative or trading purposes. we use foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate variability in gains and losses generated from the re-measurement of certain monetary assets and liabilities denominated in non-functional currencies. these derivatives are carried at fair value with changes recorded in other expense, net in our consolidated statements of operations in the same period as the changes in the fair value from the re-measurement of the underlying assets and liabilities. these foreign exchange contracts have maturities of one year or less. our sales and costs of product revenues are primarily denominated in u.s. dollars. our cost of service revenue and operating expenses are denominated in u.s. dollars as well as other foreign currencies including the british pound, the euro, indian rupee, and japanese yen. approximately 76% of such costs and operating expenses are denominated in u.s. dollars. periodically, we use foreign currency forward and/or option contracts to hedge certain forecasted foreign currency transactions to reduce variability in cost of service revenue and operating expenses caused by non-u.s. dollar denominated operating expense and costs. in designing a specific hedging approach, we consider several factors, including offsetting exposures, significance of exposures, costs associated with entering into a particular hedge instrument, and potential effectiveness of the hedge. these derivatives are designated as cash flow hedges and have maturities of less than one year. the effective portion of the derivative's gain or loss is initially reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income and, upon occurrence of the forecasted transaction, is subsequently reclassified into the line item in the consolidated statements of operations to which the hedged transaction relates. we record the ineffectiveness of the hedging instruments, which was immaterial during the years ended december 31, 2013 , 2012 , and 2011 , respectively, in other expense, net on our consolidated statements of operations. the change in operating expenses including cost of service revenue, research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses, due to foreign currency fluctuations was approximately an increase of 0.8% and 1.5% and a decrease of 1% in 2013 , 2012 , and 2011 , respectively. we have performed a sensitivity analysis as of december 31, 2013 and as of december 31, 2012 , using a modeling technique that measures the change in the amount of non-u.s. dollar cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities arising from a hypothetical 10% movement in the levels of foreign currency exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar, with all other variables held constant. the foreign currency exchange rates we used were based on market rates in effect on december 31, 2013 and december 31, 2012 , respectively. the sensitivity analysis indicated that a hypothetical 10% movement in foreign currency exchange rates would change the amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities we would report in u.s. dollars as of december 31, 2013 and december 31, 2012 by less than 1%. equity price risk our portfolio of publicly-traded equity securities and our non-qualified deferred compensation ( nqdc ) plan, which may also hold publicly-traded equity securities, are inherently exposed to equity price risk as the stock market fluctuates. we do not purchase our publicly-traded equity securities, classified as available-for-sale securities on our consolidated balance sheets, for speculative purposes. as of december 31, 2013 and december 31, 2012 , our portfolio of publicly-traded equity securities had an estimated fair value of $114.6 million and $2.9 million , respectively. a hypothetical 30% adverse change in the stock prices of our publicly-traded equity securities would result in a loss in the fair value of $34.5 million and $0.9 million as of december 31, 2013 and december 31, 2012 , respectively. investments under the nqdc plan are considered trading securities and are also reported at fair value on our consolidated balance sheets. as of december 31, 2013 and december 31, 2012 , the total investments under our nqdc plan were $15.4 million and $12.6 million , respectively. a hypothetical 30% adverse change on the total investments under the nqdc plan would result in a loss in the fair value of $4.6 million and $3.8 million as of december 31, 2013 and december 31, 2012 , respectively. we have also invested in privately-held companies. these investments are carried at cost. in 2013, 2012, and 2011 we recorded impairment charges of $ 2.8 million , $20.0 million , and $1.8 million , respectively, on our investments in privately-held companies that we judged to be other than temporary as discussed in note 5, fair value measurements , in notes to consolidated financial statements in item 8 of part ii of this report. the aggregate cost of our investments in privately-held companies was $57.2 million and $32.0 million as of december 31, 2013 and december 31, 2012 , respectively. 52 table of contentsrisk factors 15 risk factors factors that may affect future results investments in our securities involve significant risks. even small changes in investor expectations for our future growth and earnings, whether as a result of actual or rumored financial or operating results, changes in the mix of the products and services sold, acquisitions, industry changes, or other factors, could trigger, and have triggered in the past, significant fluctuations in the market price of our common stock. investors in our securities should carefully consider all of the relevant factors disclosed by us, including, but not limited to, the following factors, that could affect our business, operating results and stock price. our quarterly results are unpredictable and subject to substantial fluctuations; as a result, we may fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. our revenues and operating results may vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control and any of which may cause our stock price to fluctuate. the factors that may cause our quarterly results to vary quarter by quarter and be unpredictable include, but are not limited to: limited visibility into customer spending plans, changes in the mix of products and services sold, changes in the mix of geographies in which our products and services are sold, changing market and economic conditions, current and potential customer consolidation, competition, customer concentration, long sales and implementation cycles, unpredictable ordering patterns, changes in the amount and frequency of share repurchases or dividends, regional economic and political conditions, and seasonality. for example, we, and many companies in our industry, experience adverse seasonal fluctuations in customer spending, particularly in the first quarter. furthermore market trends, competitive pressures, commoditization of products, seasonal rebates, increased component or shipping costs, regulatory impacts and other factors may result in reductions in revenue or pressure on gross margins of certain segments in a given period, which may necessitate adjustments to our operations. such adjustments may be difficult or impossible to execute in the short or medium term. as a result of these factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of operating results are not necessarily a good indication of what our future performance will be. it is likely that in some quarters, our operating results will be below our guidance, our long-term financial model or the expectations of securities analysts or investors, in which case the price of our common stock may decline. such a decline could occur, and has occurred in the past, even when we have met our publicly stated revenues and/or earnings guidance. a limited number of our customers comprise a significant portion of our revenues and there is an ongoing trend toward consolidation in the industry in which our customers and partners operate. any decrease in revenues from our customers or partners could have an adverse effect on our net revenues and operating results. a substantial majority of our net revenues depend on sales to a limited number of customers and distribution partners, particularly in our service provider market. changes in the business requirements, vendor selection, project prioritization, financial prospects, capital resources, and expenditures, or purchasing behavior (including product mix purchased) of our key customers could significantly decrease our sales to such customers or could lead to delays or cancellations of planned purchases of our products or services, which increases the risk of quarterly fluctuations in our revenues and operating results. any of these factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition, in recent years, there has been movement towards consolidation in the telecommunications industry (for example, vodafone's acquisition of spanish cable operator, ono, numericable's purchase of sfr, france's second-largest telecommunications operator, the acquisition of tw telecom by level 3 communications, at&amp;t's proposed acquisition of directtv, and comcast's proposed acquisition of time warner cable) and that consolidation trend has continued. if our customers or partners are parties to consolidation transactions they may delay, suspend or indefinitely reduce or cancel their purchases of our products or other direct or indirect unforeseen consequences could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. fluctuating economic conditions make it difficult to predict revenues and gross margin for a particular period and a shortfall in revenues or increase in costs of production may harm our operating results. our revenues and gross margin depend significantly on general economic conditions and the demand for products in the markets in which we compete. economic weakness, customer financial difficulties, and constrained spending on network expansion and enterprise infrastructure have in the past resulted in, and may in the future result in, decreased revenues and earnings. such factors could make it difficult to accurately forecast sales and operating results and could negatively affect our ability to provide accurate 15 table of contents forecasts to our contract manufacturers and manage our contract manufacturer relationships and other expenses. in addition, economic uncertainty, as well as continued turmoil in the geopolitical environment in many parts of the world, have, and may continue to, put pressure on global economic conditions, which has led, and could continue to lead, to reduced demand for our products, to delays or reductions in network expansions or infrastructure projects, and/or higher costs of production. for example, if the u.s. dollar continues to strengthen against other currencies such as the euro, our revenues reported in u.s. dollars would decline. in addition, for u.s. dollar denominated sales, an increase in the value of the u.s. dollar would increase the real cost to customers of our products in markets outside the u.s., which could impact our competitive position. more generally-speaking, economic weakness may also lead to longer collection cycles for payments due from our customers, an increase in customer bad debt, restructuring initiatives and associated expenses, and impairment of investments. furthermore, instability in the global credit markets may adversely impact the ability of our customers to adequately fund their expected capital expenditures, which could lead to delays or cancellations of planned purchases of our products or services. our operating expenses are largely based on anticipated revenue trends and a high percentage of our expenses is, and will continue to be, fixed in the short and medium term. therefore, fluctuations in revenue could cause significant variations in our operating results and operating margins from quarter to quarter. uncertainty about future economic conditions also makes it difficult to forecast operating results and to make decisions about future investments. future or continued economic weakness, failure of our customers and markets to recover from such weakness, customer financial difficulties, increases in costs of production, and reductions in spending on network maintenance and expansion could result in price concessions in certain markets or have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and consequently on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our success depends upon our ability to effectively plan and manage our resources and restructure our business through rapidly fluctuating economic and market conditions, and such actions may have an adverse effect on our financial and operating results. our ability to successfully offer our products and services in a rapidly evolving market requires an effective planning, forecasting, and management process to enable us to effectively scale and adjust our business in response to fluctuating market opportunities and conditions. in periods of market expansion, we have increased investment in our business by, for example, increasing headcount and increasing our investment in r&amp;d, sales and marketing, and other parts of our business. conversely, in 2014, to refocus the company's strategy, optimize its structure and improve operational efficiencies in connection with our integrated operating plan, or iop, we implemented a new strategic focus, realigned our organization into a one-juniper structure, reduced our workforce, consolidated and closed facilities, made changes to enhance efficiency, improved cost management measures and instituted new capital allocation plan. in connection with cost management, we implemented a substantial cost reduction plan accomplished through various restructuring activities across research and development, sales and marketing and general and administrative. we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $850.0 million in the fourth quarter of 2014 due to the underperformance of our security reporting unit and product rationalizations. further strategy-related pivots could lead to delays in achieving revenue and profit forecasts and result in additional impairment. some of our expenses are fixed costs that cannot be rapidly or easily adjusted in response to fluctuations in our business or numbers of employees. rapid changes in the size, alignment or organization of our workforce, including sales account coverage, could adversely affect our ability to develop and deliver products and services as planned or impair our ability to realize our current or future business and financial objectives. our ability to achieve the anticipated cost savings and other benefits from our restructuring initiatives within the expected time frame is subject to many estimates and assumptions. these estimates and assumptions are subject to significant economic, competitive and other uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. if these estimates and assumptions are incorrect, if we are unsuccessful at implementing changes, or if other unforeseen events occur, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. the long sales and implementation cycles for our products, as well as our expectation that some customers will sporadically place large orders with short lead times, may cause our revenues and operating results to vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter. a customer's decision to purchase certain of our products, particularly new products, involves a significant commitment of its resources and a lengthy evaluation and product qualification process. as a result, the sales cycle may be lengthy. in particular, customers making critical decisions regarding the design and implementation of large network deployments may engage in very lengthy procurement processes that may delay or impact expected future orders. throughout the sales cycle, we may spend considerable time educating and providing information to prospective customers regarding the use and benefits of our products. even after making the decision to purchase, customers may deploy our products slowly and deliberately. timing of deployment can vary widely and depends on the skill set of the customer, the size of the network deployment, the complexity of the customer's network environment, and the degree of hardware and operating system configuration necessary to deploy the products. customers 16 table of contents with large networks usually expand their networks in large increments on a periodic basis. accordingly, we may receive purchase orders for significant dollar amounts on an irregular basis. these long cycles, as well as our expectation that customers will tend to sporadically place large orders with short lead times, both of which may be exacerbated by the impact of continued global economic weakness, may cause revenues and operating results to vary significantly and unexpectedly from quarter-to-quarter. we face intense competition that could reduce our revenues and adversely affect our business and financial results. competition is intense in the markets that we serve. the network equipment market has historically been dominated by cisco, with competition coming from other companies such as alcatel-lucent, brocade, hewlett packard company, and huawei. in the security market, we face intense competition from these same companies as well as companies such as check point, f5 networks, fortinet, and palo alto networks. further, a number of other small public and private companies have products or have announced plans for new products to address the same challenges and markets that our products address. in addition, actual or speculated consolidation among competitors, or the acquisition of our partners and/or resellers by competitors, can increase the competitive pressures faced by us as, customers may delay spending decisions or not purchase our products at all. for example, in recent years, oracle acquired acme packet, inc., and cisco acquired meraki networks, inc. and sourcefire, inc., which further consolidated our market. a number of our competitors have substantially greater resources and can offer a wider range of products and services for the overall network equipment market than we do. if we are unable to compete successfully against existing and future competitors on the basis of product offerings or price, we could experience a loss in market share and revenues and/or be required to reduce prices, which could reduce our gross margins, and which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our partners and resellers generally sell or resell competing products on a non-exclusive basis and consolidation could delay spending or require us to increase discounts to compete, which could also adversely affect our business. we expect our gross margins and operating margins to vary over time, and the level of product gross margins achieved by us in recent years may not be sustainable. we expect our product gross margins to vary from quarter-to-quarter, and the gross margins we have achieved in recent years may not be sustainable and may be adversely affected in the future by numerous factors, including customer, product and geographic mix shifts, increased price competition in one or more of the markets in which we compete, increases in material, labor, or inventory carrying costs, excess product component or obsolescence charges from our contract manufacturers, increased costs due to changes in component pricing or charges incurred due to component holding periods if we do not accurately forecast product demand, warranty related issues, or our introduction of new products or entry into new markets with different pricing and cost structures. for example, in the third quarter of 2012, our margins declined as a result of an inventory charge resulting from inventory we held in excess of forecasted demand. we determine our operating expenses largely on the basis of anticipated revenues and a high percentage of our expenses are fixed in the short and medium term. as a result, a failure or delay in generating or recognizing revenue could cause significant variations in our operating results and operating margin from quarter-to-quarter. failure to sustain or improve our gross margins reduces our profitability and may have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. further, in early 2014, we announced our iop, which in combination with our new cost reduction initiative, announced in october 2014, is intended to reduce our operating expenses and to focus on cost controls. we expect that our margins will, accordingly, vary with our ability to achieve the goals of the iop as supplemented by the new cost reduction initiative, as well as our ability to maintain or increase our revenues. we can provide no assurance that we will be able to achieve all of the goals of these plans or meet our announced expectations, in whole or in part, or that our plans will have the intended effect of improving our margins on the expected timeline, or at all. to the extent we receive product orders late in a quarter, we may be unable to recognize revenue for these orders in the same period, which could adversely affect our quarterly revenues. generally, our network equipment products are not stocked by distributors or resellers due to their cost and complexity and the custom nature of configurations required by our customers; we generally build such products as orders are received. in recent years, the volume of orders received late in any given fiscal quarter has generally stabilized but remains unpredictable. if orders for certain products are received late in any quarter, we may not be able to recognize revenue for these orders in the same period, which could adversely affect our ability to meet our expected revenues for such quarter. additionally, we determine our operating expenses largely on the basis of anticipated revenues and a high percentage of our expenses are fixed in the short and medium term. as a result, a failure or delay in generating or recognizing revenue could cause significant variations in our operating results and operating margin from quarter-to-quarter. 17 table of contents conversion of key internal systems and processes, particularly our erp system, and problems with the design or implementation of these systems and processes could interfere with, and therefore harm, our business and operations. we have underway a multi-phase project to convert certain key internal systems and processes, including our customer relationship management ( crm ) system and enterprise resource planning ("erp") system. since 2012, we have been implementing major changes to our erp system, which activities we expect to continue into 2015. in the third quarter of 2014, we implemented the manufacturing, fulfillment, and inventory portion of this erp project and we are now reliant upon dual erp systems until completion of the conversion. the next major change to our erp program is projected for the third quarter of 2015, when we plan to eliminate the dual erp system. a delay past this time could result in postponement of this systems change until the first quarter of 2016. we have invested, and will continue to invest, significant capital and human resources in the design and implementation of these systems and processes. any problems, disruptions, delays or other issues in the design and implementation of the new systems or processes, particularly any that impact our operations, could adversely affect our ability to process customer orders, ship products, provide service and support to our customers, bill and track our customers, collect cash from our customers, maintain our dso measure, fulfill contractual obligations, record and transfer information in a timely and accurate manner, recognize revenue, file sec reports in a timely manner, or otherwise run our business. even if we do not encounter these adverse effects, as noted above, the design and implementation of these new systems and processes may be much more costly than we anticipated and in the event of lengthy project delays, we may experience issues with retention of the implementation team. if we are unable to successfully design and implement these new systems and processes as planned, or if the implementation of these systems and processes is more lengthy or costly than anticipated, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be negatively impacted. we are dependent on sole source and limited source suppliers for several key components, which makes us susceptible to shortages or price fluctuations in our supply chain, and we may face increased challenges in supply chain management in the future. we rely on single or limited sources of certain of our components. during periods of high demand for electronic products, component shortages are possible, and the predictability of the availability of such components may be limited. any future spike in growth in our business, or more likely in it spending and the economy in general is likely to create greater short-term pressures on us and our suppliers to accurately forecast overall component demand and to establish optimal component inventories. if shortages or delays persist, the price of these components may increase, or the components may not be available at all. we may not be able to secure enough components at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build new products in a timely manner, and our revenues and gross margins could suffer until other sources can be developed. for example, from time to time, we have experienced component shortages that resulted in delays of product shipments. we currently purchase numerous key components, including asics, from single or limited sources. the development of alternate sources for those components is time-consuming, difficult, and costly. in addition, the lead times associated with certain components are lengthy and preclude rapid changes in quantities and delivery schedules. also, long-term supply and maintenance obligations to customers increase the duration for which specific components are required, which may further increase the risk of component shortages or the cost of carrying inventory. in the event of a component shortage or supply interruption from these suppliers, we may not be able to develop alternate or second sources in a timely manner. if we are unable to buy these components in quantities sufficient to meet our requirements on a timely basis, we will not be able to deliver products and services to our customers, which would seriously affect present and future sales, which would, in turn, adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition, the development, licensing, or acquisition of new products in the future may increase the complexity of supply chain management. failure to effectively manage the supply of key components and products would adversely affect our business. we rely on value-added and other resellers, as well as distribution partners, to sell our products, and disruptions to, or our failure to effectively develop and manage, our distribution channel and the processes and procedures that support it could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues from the sale of our products. our future success is highly dependent upon establishing and maintaining successful relationships with a variety of value-added and other reseller and distribution partners, including our worldwide strategic partners such as ericsson, ibm, and nsn. the majority of our revenues are derived through value-added resellers and distributors, most of which also sell our competitors' products, and some of which sell their own competing products. our revenues depend in part on the performance of these partners. the loss of or reduction in sales to our resellers or distributors could materially reduce our revenues. for example, in 2011 and 2012, one of our oem partners, dell, acquired force10 and sonicwall, both competitors of ours. as a result, dell became increasingly competitive in certain areas, their resale of our products declined, and we ultimately terminated our oem relationship with dell. our competitors may in some cases be effective in leveraging their market share positions or in providing incentives to current or potential resellers and distributors to favor their products or to prevent or reduce sales of our products. if we fail to develop and maintain relationships with our partners, fail to develop new relationships with value-added resellers and distributors in new markets, fail to expand the number of distributors and resellers in existing markets, fail to manage, train or motivate existing 18 table of contents value-added resellers and distributors effectively, determine that we cannot continue to do business with these partners for any reason or if these partners are not successful in their sales efforts, sales of our products may decrease, and our business, financial condition, and results of operations would suffer. in addition, we recognize a portion of our revenues based on a sell-through model using information provided by our distributors. if those distributors provide us with inaccurate or untimely information, the amount or timing of our revenues could be adversely impacted. further, in order to develop and expand our distribution channel, we must continue to offer attractive channel programs to potential partners and scale and improve our processes and procedures that support the channel. as a result, our programs, processes and procedures may become increasingly complex and inherently difficult to manage. we have previously entered into oem agreements with partners pursuant to which they rebrand and resell our products as part of their product portfolios. these types of relationships are complex and require additional processes and procedures that may be challenging and costly to implement, maintain and manage. our failure to successfully manage and develop our distribution channel and the programs, processes and procedures that support it could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues from the sale of our products. system security risks, data protection breaches, and cyber-attacks could compromise our proprietary information, disrupt our internal operations and harm public perception of our products, which could cause our business and reputation to suffer and adversely affect our stock price. in the ordinary course of business, we store sensitive data, including intellectual property, our proprietary business information and that of our customers, suppliers and business partners on our networks. the secure maintenance of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy. increasingly, companies, including us, are subject to a wide variety of attacks on their networks on an ongoing basis. despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to penetration or attacks by computer programmers and hackers, or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. any such breach could compromise our networks, creating system disruptions or slowdowns and exploiting security vulnerabilities of our products, and the information stored on our networks could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen, which could subject us to liability to our customers, suppliers, business partners and others, and cause us reputational and financial harm. in addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that we produce or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including "bugs" and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of our networks. if an actual or perceived breach of network security occurs in our network or in the network of a customer of our products, regardless of whether the breach is attributable to our products, the market perception of the effectiveness of our products could be harmed. because the techniques used by computer programmers and hackers, many of whom are highly sophisticated and well-funded, to access or sabotage networks change frequently and generally are not recognized until after they are used, we may be unable to anticipate or immediately detect these techniques. this could impede our sales, manufacturing, distribution or other critical functions. in addition, the economic costs to us to eliminate or alleviate cyber or other security problems, bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software systems and security vulnerabilities could be significant and may be difficult to anticipate or measure because the damage may differ based on the identity and motive of the programmer or hacker, which are often difficult to pinpoint. regulation of industry in general and the telecommunications industry in particular could harm our operating results and future prospects. we are subject to laws and regulations affecting the sale of our products in a number of areas. for example, some governments have regulations prohibiting government entities from purchasing security products that do not meet specified indigenous certification criteria, even though those criteria may be in conflict with accepted international standards. other regulations that may negatively impact our business include country of origin regulations. these types of regulations are in effect or under consideration in several jurisdictions where we do business. the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act includes disclosure requirements regarding the use of conflict minerals mined from the democratic republic of congo and adjoining countries ( drc ) and procedures regarding a manufacturer's efforts to prevent the sourcing of such conflict minerals. these minerals are present in our products. sec rules implementing these requirements may have the effect of reducing the pool of suppliers who can supply drc conflict free components and parts, and we may not be able to obtain drc conflict free products or supplies in sufficient quantities for our operations. since our supply chain is complex, we may face reputational challenges with our customers, stockholders and other stakeholders if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for the "conflict minerals used in our products. 19 table of contents in addition, environmental laws and regulations relevant to electronic equipment manufacturing or operations, including laws and regulations governing the hazardous material content of our products and laws relating to the collection of and recycling of electrical and electronic equipment, may adversely impact our business and financial condition. these laws and regulations include the european union (eu) restriction on the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment directive (rohs). the eu rohs and the similar laws of other jurisdictions limit the content of certain hazardous materials such as lead, mercury, and cadmium in the manufacture of electrical equipment, including our products. currently, our products comply with the eu rohs requirements. however, it is possible that certain exemptions may be revoked in the future, including an exemption for lead in network infrastructure equipment upon which we and our competitors rely, and which is currently scheduled to expire in july 2016. revocation of this exemption or further changes to this or other laws or passage of new similar laws in other jurisdictions, may require us to cease selling non-compliant products in the eu or reengineer our products to use components compatible with these regulations. this reengineering and component substitution could result in additional costs to us, disrupt our operations or logistics and result in an adverse impact on our operating results. additionally, eu and china have adopted the weee directive, which requires producers of electrical and electronic equipment to assume responsibility for collecting, treating, recycling and disposing of products when they have reached the end of their useful life, as well as reach regulations, which regulate handling of certain chemical substances that may be used in our products. the traditional telecommunications industry is highly regulated, and our business and financial condition could be adversely affected by changes in regulations relating to the internet telecommunications industry. currently, there are few laws or regulations that apply directly to access to or commerce on ip networks, but future regulations could include sales taxes on products sold via the internet and internet service provider access charges. we could be adversely affected by regulation of ip networks and commerce in any country where we market equipment and services to service providers or cloud provider companies. regulations governing the range of services and business models that can be offered by service providers or cloud provider companies could adversely affect those customers' needs for products designed to enable a wide range of such services or business models. for instance, the u.s. federal communications commission is considering new regulations governing aspects of fixed broadband networks and wireless networks through proposals regarding net neutrality and government regulation of the internet. these regulations and regulations resulting from these proposals might impact service provider and cloud provider business models and as such, providers' needs for internet telecommunications equipment and services. also, many jurisdictions are evaluating or implementing regulations relating to cyber security, supply chain integrity, privacy and data protection, any of which can affect the market and requirements for networking and security equipment. the adoption and implementation of such regulations could reduce demand for our products, increase the cost of building and selling our products, result in product inventory write-offs, impact our ability to ship products into affected areas and recognize revenue in a timely manner and require us to spend significant time and expense to comply, and we could face fines and civil or criminal sanctions or claims if we were to violate or become liable under such regulations. any of these impacts could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. governmental regulations affecting the import or export of products or affecting products containing encryption capabilities could negatively affect our revenues. the united states and various foreign governments have imposed controls, export license requirements, and restrictions on the import or export of, among other things, encryption technology. certain of our products contain or use encryption technology. in addition, from time to time, governmental agencies have proposed additional regulation of encryption technology, such as requiring certification, notifications, review of source code, or the escrow and governmental recovery of private encryption keys. for example, russia and china recently have implemented new requirements relating to products containing encryption and india has imposed special warranty and other obligations associated with technology deemed critical. governmental regulation of encryption or ip networking technology and regulation of imports or exports, or our failure to obtain required import or export approval for our products, or export sanctions, including recent restrictions on exports to russia, could harm our international and domestic sales and adversely affect our revenues. in addition, failure to comply with such regulations could result in harm to our reputation, penalties, costs, and restrictions on import or export privileges or adversely affect sales to government agencies or government-funded projects. our ability to process orders and ship products in a timely manner is dependent in part on our business systems and performance of the systems and processes of third parties such as our contract manufacturers, suppliers, or other partners, as well as the interfaces between our systems and the systems of such third parties. if our systems, the systems and processes of those third parties, or the interfaces between them experience delays or fail, our business processes and our ability to build and ship products could be impacted, and our financial results could be harmed. some of our business processes depend upon our information technology ("it") systems, the systems and processes of third parties, and the interfaces of our systems with the systems of third parties. for example, our order entry system feeds information into the 20 table of contents systems of our contract manufacturers, which enables them to build and ship our products. if those systems fail or are interrupted, our processes may function at a diminished level or not at all. this could negatively impact our ability to ship products or otherwise operate our business, and our financial results could be harmed. for example, although it did not adversely affect our shipments, an earthquake in late december of 2006 disrupted our communications with china, where a significant part of our manufacturing occurs. in addition, as discussed earlier in this "risk factors" section, beginning in 2012 and continuing into 2015, we have been implementing major changes to our enterprise resource planning system. any failure of the new system or interruptions during the transition may impair communications with our manufacturers, and, therefore, adversely affect our ability to build and ship our products. we also rely upon the performance of the systems and processes of our contract manufacturers to build and ship our products. if those systems and processes experience interruption or delay, our ability to build and ship our products in a timely manner may be harmed. for example, we have experienced instances where our contract manufacturers were not able to ship products in the time periods expected by us, which prevented us from meeting our commitments to our customers. if we are not able to ship our products or if product shipments are delayed, our ability to recognize revenue in a timely manner for those products would be affected and our financial results could be harmed. telecommunications and cloud service provider companies and our other large customers generally require onerous terms and conditions in our contracts with them. as we seek to sell more products to such customers, we may be required to agree to terms and conditions that could have an adverse effect on our business or ability to recognize revenues. telecommunications and cloud service provider companies, which comprise a significant portion of our customer base, and other large companies, generally have greater purchasing power than smaller entities and, accordingly, often request and receive more favorable terms from suppliers. for example, our customers, france telecom-orange and deutsche telekom ag have formed a company for the purpose of purchasing products from, and negotiating more favorable contractual terms with, suppliers. as we seek to sell more products to this class of customer, we may be required to agree to such terms and conditions, which may include terms that affect the timing of our ability to recognize revenue and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. consolidation among such large customers can further increase their buying power and ability to require onerous terms. in addition, service providers have purchased products from other vendors who promised but failed to deliver certain functionality and/or had products that caused problems or outages in the networks of these customers. as a result, these customers may request additional features from us and require substantial penalties for failure to deliver such features or may require substantial penalties for any network outages that may be caused by our products. these additional requests and penalties, if we are required to agree to them, may require us to defer revenue recognition from such sales, which may negatively affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. if we do not successfully anticipate technological shifts, market needs and opportunities, and develop products and product enhancements that meet those technological shifts, needs and opportunities, or if those products are not made available in a timely manner or do not gain market acceptance, we may not be able to compete effectively and our ability to generate revenues will suffer. we cannot guarantee that we will be able to anticipate future technological shifts, market needs and opportunities or be able to develop new products or product enhancements to meet such technological shifts, needs or opportunities in a timely manner or at all. for example, the move from traditional network infrastructures towards software-defined networking, or sdn, has been receiving considerable attention. in our view, it will take several years to see the full impact of sdn, and we believe the successful products and solutions in this market will combine hardware and software elements. if we fail to anticipate market requirements or fail to develop and introduce new products or product enhancements to meet those requirements in a timely manner, it could cause us to lose customers, and such failure could substantially decrease or delay market acceptance and sales of our present and future products, which would significantly harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. even if we are able to anticipate, develop, and commercially introduce new products and enhancements, there can be no assurance that new products or enhancements will achieve widespread market acceptance. in addition, in the past two years, we have announced new products, including the qf5100, t4000 core router, ex9200 ethernet switch, mx series routers, ptx 3000 packet transport router, and juniper networks contrail. if these or other new products do not gain market acceptance at a sufficient rate of growth, our ability to meet future financial targets and aspirations may be adversely affected. in addition, if we fail to deliver new or announced products to the market in a timely manner, it could adversely affect the market acceptance of those products and harm our competitive position and our business and financial results. 21 table of contents our ability to develop, market, and sell products could be harmed if we are unable to retain or hire key personnel. our future success depends upon our ability to recruit and retain the services of executive, engineering, sales and marketing, and support personnel. the supply of highly qualified individuals, in particular engineers in very specialized technical areas, or sales people specializing in the service provider and enterprise markets, is limited and competition for such individuals is intense. none of our officers or key employees is bound by an employment agreement for any specific term. the loss of the services of any of our key employees, the inability to attract or retain personnel in the future or delays in hiring required personnel, engineers and sales people, and the complexity and time involved in replacing or training new employees, could delay the development and introduction of new products, and negatively impact our ability to market, sell, or support our products. we are a party to lawsuits, investigations, proceedings, and other disputes, which are costly to defend and, if determined adversely to us, could require us to pay fines or damages, undertake remedial measures or prevent us from taking certain actions, any or all of which could harm our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. we, and certain of our current and former officers and current and former members of our board of directors, have been or are subject to various lawsuits. we have been served with lawsuits related to employment matters, commercial transactions and patent infringement, as well as securities laws. as noted in note 16, commitments and contingencies , in notes to consolidated financial statements of this report, under the heading of legal proceedings , the u.s. securities and exchange commission (sec) and the u.s. department of justice (doj) are conducting investigations into possible violations by the company of the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (fcpa) in a number of countries. the investigations relate to whether the company or any third party on behalf of the company gave money, or anything else of value to any government official in violation of the fcpa. the company's audit committee, with the assistance of independent advisors, has been investigating and conducting a thorough review of possible violations of the fcpa, and has made recommendations for remedial measures, including employee disciplinary actions in foreign jurisdictions, which the company has implemented and continues to implement. litigation and investigations are inherently uncertain. we therefore cannot predict the duration, scope, outcome or consequences of litigation and government investigations. in connection with any government investigations, including those in which we are currently involved as described above, if the government takes action against us or we agree to settle the matter, we may be required to pay substantial fines and incur other sanctions, which may be material, and suffer reputational harm. the lawsuits and investigations are expensive and time-consuming to defend, settle, and/or resolve, and may require us to implement certain remedial measures that could prove costly or disruptive to our business and operations. the unfavorable resolution of one or more of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. we are a party to litigation and claims regarding intellectual property rights, resolution of which may be time - consuming and expensive, as well as require a significant amount of resources to prosecute, defend, or make our products non-infringing. our industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent claims and related litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. we expect that infringement claims may increase as the number of products and competitors in our market increases and overlaps occur. third parties have asserted and may in the future assert claims or initiate litigation related to patent, copyright, trademark, and other intellectual property rights to technologies and related standards that are relevant to our products. the asserted claims and/or initiated litigation may include claims against us or our manufacturers, suppliers, partners, or customers, alleging that our products or services infringe proprietary rights. regardless of the merit of these claims, they have been and can be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, and may require us to develop non-infringing technologies, enter into license agreements, or cease engaging in certain activities or offering certain products or services. furthermore, because of the potential for high awards of damages or injunctive relief that are not necessarily predictable, even arguably unmeritorious claims may be settled for significant amounts of money. if any infringement or other intellectual property claim made against us by any third-party is successful, if we are required to settle litigation for significant amounts of money, or if we fail to develop non-infringing technology or license required proprietary rights on commercially reasonable terms and conditions, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. our financial condition and results of operations could suffer if there is an additional impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets with indefinite lives. we are required to test intangible assets with indefinite lives, including goodwill, annually and on an interim basis if an event occurs or there is a change in circumstance that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of reporting units and intangible assets below their carrying values. as of december 31, 2014 , our goodwill was $2,981.5 million and there were no intangible assets with indefinite lives. when the carrying value of a reporting unit's goodwill exceeds its implied fair value of goodwill, a charge to operations is recorded. if the carrying amount of an intangible asset with an indefinite life exceeds its fair value, a charge to operations is recognized. either event would result in incremental expenses for that quarter, which would reduce any earnings or increase any loss for the period in which the impairment was determined to have occurred. 22 table of contents in the fourth quarter of 2014, we rationalized our security product portfolio, including developing a new product roadmap and exiting certain point products, including our junos pulse product. these factors decreased our short-term and near-term revenue and profitability forecasts for our security reporting unit. during our fiscal year 2014 annual goodwill impairment test, the carrying value of our security reporting unit's goodwill exceeded its fair value, resulting in a goodwill impairment charge of $850.0 million. in recent years, economic weakness has contributed to extreme price and volume fluctuations in global stock markets that have reduced the market price of many technology company stocks, including ours. declines in our level of revenues due to restructuring or cost reductions or declines in our operating margins, as well as sustained declines in our stock price, increase the risk that goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives may become impaired in future periods. our goodwill impairment analysis is sensitive to changes in key assumptions used in our analysis, such as expected future cash flows, the degree of volatility in equity and debt markets, and our stock price. if the assumptions used in our analysis are not realized, it is possible that an impairment charge may need to be recorded in the future. we cannot accurately predict the amount and timing of any impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets. however, any such impairment would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. changes in effective tax rates or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income or other tax returns could adversely affect our results. our future effective tax rates could be subject to volatility or adversely affected by the following: earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated earnings in countries where we have higher statutory rates; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; expiration of, or lapses in, the research and development ( r&amp;d ) tax credit laws applicable to us; transfer pricing adjustments related to certain acquisitions, including the license of acquired intangibles under our intercompany r&amp;d cost sharing arrangement; costs related to intercompany restructuring; tax effects of share-based compensation; or changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles, or interpretations thereof. the organisation for economic co-operation and development ("oecd"), an international association of 34 countries including the u.s., is contemplating changes to numerous long-standing tax principles. these contemplated changes, if finalized and adopted by countries, will increase tax uncertainty and may adversely affect our provision for income taxes. in addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the internal revenue service ( irs ) and other tax authorities. we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. there can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. if we fail to accurately predict our manufacturing requirements, we could incur additional costs or experience manufacturing delays, which would harm our business. we provide demand forecasts to our contract manufacturers, who order components and plan capacity based on these forecasts. if we overestimate our requirements, our contract manufacturers may assess charges, or we may have liabilities for excess inventory, each of which could negatively affect our gross margins. for example, in the third quarter of 2012, our gross margins were reduced as a result of an inventory charge resulting from inventory we held in excess of forecasted demand. conversely, because lead times for required materials and components vary significantly and depend on factors such as the specific supplier, contract terms, and the demand for each component at a given time, and because our contract manufacturers are third-party manufacturers for numerous other companies, if we underestimate our requirements, as we did in the third quarter of 2010 with respect to certain components, our contract manufacturers may have inadequate time, materials, and/or components required to produce our products, which could increase costs or delay or interrupt manufacturing of our products resulting in delays in shipments and deferral or loss of revenues. we are dependent on contract manufacturers with whom we do not have long-term supply contracts, and changes to those relationships, expected or unexpected, may result in delays or disruptions that could cause us to lose revenues and damage our customer relationships. we depend on independent contract manufacturers (each of which is a third-party manufacturer for numerous companies) to manufacture our products. although we have contracts with our contract manufacturers, these contracts do not require them to manufacture our products on a long-term basis in any specific quantity or at any specific price. in addition, it is time-consuming and costly to qualify and implement additional contract manufacturer relationships. therefore, if we fail to effectively manage our contract manufacturer relationships, which includes failing to provide accurate forecasts of our requirements, or if one or more of them experiences delays, disruptions, or quality control problems in our manufacturing operations, or if we had to change or add additional contract manufacturers or contract manufacturing sites, our ability to ship products to our customers could be 23 table of contents delayed. also, the addition of manufacturing locations or contract manufacturers would increase the complexity of our supply chain management. moreover, an increasing portion of our manufacturing is performed in china and other countries and is therefore subject to risks associated with doing business outside of the united states. each of these factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may face difficulties enforcing our proprietary rights which could adversely affect our ability to compete. we generally rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secret laws and contractual restrictions on disclosure of confidential and proprietary information, to establish and maintain proprietary rights in our technology and products. although we have been issued numerous patents and other patent applications are currently pending, there can be no assurance that any of our patent applications will result in issued patents or that any of our patents or other proprietary rights will not be challenged, invalidated, infringed or circumvented or that our rights will, in fact, provide competitive advantages to us or protect our technology, any of which could result in costly product redesign efforts, discontinuance of certain product offerings and other competitive harm. furthermore, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. the outcome of any actions taken in these foreign countries may be different than if such actions were determined under the laws of the united states. although we are not dependent on any individual patents or group of patents for particular segments of the business for which we compete, if we are unable to protect our proprietary rights in a market, we may find ourselves at a competitive disadvantage to others who need not incur the substantial expense, time, and effort required to create innovative products that have enabled our success. we are subject to risks arising from our international operations, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we derive a majority of our revenues from our international operations, and we plan to continue expanding our business in international markets in the future. we conduct significant sales and customer support operations directly and indirectly through our distributors and vars in countries throughout the world and depend on the operations of our contract manufacturers and suppliers that are located outside of the united states. in addition, a portion of our r&amp;d and our general and administrative operations are conducted outside the united states. in some countries, we may experience reduced intellectual property protection. as a result of our international operations, we are affected by economic, business regulatory, social, and political conditions in foreign countries, including the following: changes in general it spending, the imposition of government controls, inclusive of critical infrastructure protection; changes or limitations in trade protection laws or other regulatory requirements, which may affect our ability to import or export our products from various countries; varying and potentially conflicting regulations; fluctuations in local economies; wage inflation or a tightening of the labor market; and the impact of the following on service provider and government spending patterns: political considerations, unfavorable changes in tax treaties or laws, natural disasters, epidemic disease, labor unrest, earnings expatriation restrictions, misappropriation of intellectual property, military actions, acts of terrorism, political and social unrest and difficulties in staffing and managing international operations. any or all of these factors could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. moreover, local laws and customs in many countries differ significantly from or conflict with those in the united states or in other countries in which we operate. in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common for others to engage in business practices that are prohibited by our internal policies and procedures or u.s. regulations applicable to us. there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, channel partners, and agents will not take actions in violation of our policies and procedures, which are designed to ensure compliance with u.s. and foreign laws and policies. violations of laws or key control policies by our employees, contractors, channel partners, or agents could result in termination of our relationship, 24 table of contents financial reporting problems, fines, and/or penalties for us, or prohibition on the importation or exportation of our products, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. because a majority of our business is conducted outside the united states, we face exposure to adverse movements in non-u.s. currency exchange rates. these exposures may change over time as business practices evolve and could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. the majority of our revenues and expenses are transacted in u.s. dollars. we also have some transactions that are denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the british pound, euro, indian rupee, and japanese yen related to our sales and service operations outside of the united states. an increase in the value of the u.s. dollar could increase the real cost to our customers of our products in those markets outside the united states in which we sell in u.s. dollars, and a weakened u.s. dollar could increase the cost of local operating expenses and procurement of raw materials to the extent we must purchase components in foreign currencies. currently, we hedge only those currency exposures associated with certain assets and liabilities denominated in nonfunctional currencies and periodically hedge anticipated foreign currency cash flows. the hedging activities undertaken by us are intended to offset the impact of currency fluctuations on certain nonfunctional currency assets and liabilities. however, such attempts to offset the impact of currency fluctuations are costly and no amount of hedging can be effective against all circumstances, including long-term declines in the value of the u.s. dollar. if our attempts to hedge against these risks are not successful, or if long-term declines in the value of the u.s. dollar persist, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted. integration of acquisitions could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition and stock price and may dilute the ownership of our stockholders. we have made, and may continue to make, acquisitions in order to enhance our business. for example, in 2014, we acquired wandl, inc. and in 2012, we acquired contrail systems inc. ("contrail") and mykonos software, inc. ("mykonos"). acquisitions involve numerous risks, including problems combining the purchased operations, technologies or products, unanticipated costs and liabilities, diversion of management's attention from our core businesses, adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers, risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience, and potential loss of key employees. there can be no assurance that we will be able to integrate successfully any businesses, products, technologies, or personnel that we might acquire. the integration of businesses that we may acquire is likely to be a complex, time-consuming, and expensive process and we may not realize the anticipated revenues or other benefits associated with our acquisitions if we fail to successfully manage and operate the acquired business. if we fail in any acquisition integration efforts and are unable to efficiently operate as a combined organization utilizing common information and communication systems, operating procedures, financial controls, and human resources practices, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected. in connection with certain acquisitions, we may agree to issue common stock or assume equity awards that dilute the ownership of our current stockholders, use a substantial portion of our cash resources, assume liabilities, record goodwill and amortizable intangible assets that will be subject to impairment testing on a regular basis and potential periodic impairment charges, incur amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets, and incur large and immediate write-offs and restructuring and other related expenses, all of which could harm our financial condition and results of operations. the divestiture of our junos pulse product portfolio could disrupt our business and may not yield the intended benefits. we recently completed the sale of our junos pulse product portfolio to an affiliate of siris capital, a private equity firm, for total consideration of $230.7 million , of which $105.7 million was in cash, net of a $19.3 million working capital adjustment, and $125.0 million was in the form of an 18-month non-contingent interest bearing promissory note issued to the company. since approximately $125.0 million of the transaction consideration is in the form of an 18-month non-contingent seller promissory note, there is also the risk that we may not receive the amount owed to us by the buyer under the note and that instead the junos pulse assets will return to us. if we fail to adequately evolve our financial and managerial control and reporting systems and processes, our ability to manage and grow our business will be negatively affected. our ability to successfully offer our products and implement our business plan in a rapidly evolving market depends upon an effective planning and management process. we will need to continue to improve our financial and managerial control and our 25 table of contents reporting systems and procedures in order to manage our business effectively in the future. if we fail to effectively implement improved systems and processes, our ability to manage our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be negatively affected. our products are highly technical and if they contain undetected defects errors or malware or do not meet customer quality expectations, our business could be adversely affected, and we may be subject to additional costs or lawsuits or be required to pay damages in connection with any alleged or actual failure of our products and services. our products are highly technical and complex, are critical to the operation of many networks, and, in the case of our security products, provide and monitor network security and may protect valuable information. our products have contained and may contain one or more undetected errors, defects, malware, or security vulnerabilities. some errors in our products may only be discovered after a product has been installed and used by end-customers. any errors, defects, malware or security vulnerabilities discovered in our products after commercial release could result in monetary penalties, loss of revenues or delay in revenue recognition, loss of customers, loss of future business and reputation, penalties, and increased service and warranty cost, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition, in the event an error, defect, malware, or vulnerability is attributable to a component supplied by a third-party vendor, we may not be able to recover from the vendor all of the costs of remediation that we may incur. in addition, we could face claims for product liability, tort, or breach of warranty or indemnification. defending a lawsuit, regardless of its merit, is costly and may divert management's attention. if our business liability insurance coverage is inadequate, or future coverage is unavailable on acceptable terms or at all, our financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. moreover, if our products fail to satisfy our customers' quality expectations for whatever reason, the perception of and the demand for our products could be adversely affected. if our products do not interoperate with our customers' networks, installations will be delayed or cancelled and could harm our business. our products are designed to interface with our customers' existing networks, each of which have different specifications and utilize multiple protocol standards and products from other vendors. many of our customers' networks contain multiple generations of products that have been added over time as these networks have grown and evolved. our products must interoperate with many or all of the products within these networks as well as future products in order to meet our customers' requirements. if we find errors in the existing software or defects in the hardware used in our customers' networks, we may need to modify our software or hardware to fix or overcome these errors so that our products will interoperate and scale with the existing software and hardware, which could be costly and could negatively affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition, if our products do not interoperate with those of our customers' networks, demand for our products could be adversely affected or orders for our products could be cancelled. this could hurt our operating results, damage our reputation, and seriously harm our business and prospects. our products incorporate and rely upon licensed third-party technology, and if licenses of third-party technology do not continue to be available to us or are not available on terms acceptable to us, our revenues and ability to develop and introduce new products could be adversely affected. we integrate licensed third-party technology into certain of our products. from time to time, we may be required to license additional technology from third-parties to develop new products or product enhancements. third-party licenses may not be available or continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms. the failure to comply with the terms of any license, including free open source software, may result in our inability to continue to use such license. our inability to maintain or re-license any third-party licenses required in our products or our inability to obtain third-party licenses necessary to develop new products and product enhancements, could require us, if possible, to develop substitute technology or obtain substitute technology of lower quality or performance standards or at a greater cost, any of which could delay or prevent product shipment and harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we sell our products to customers that use those products to build networks and ip infrastructure, and if the demand for network and ip systems does not continue to grow, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. a substantial portion of our business and revenues depends on the growth of secure ip infrastructure and on the deployment of our products by customers that depend on the continued growth of ip services. as a result of changes in the economy, capital spending or the building of network capacity in excess of demand, all of which have in the past particularly affected telecommunications service providers, spending on ip infrastructure can vary, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition, a number of our existing customers are evaluating the build-out of their next generation networks. during the decision-making period when our customers are determining the design of those 26 table of contents networks and the selection of the equipment they will use in those networks, such customers may greatly reduce or suspend their spending on secure ip infrastructure. such delays in purchases can make it more difficult to predict revenues from such customers can cause fluctuations in the level of spending by these customers and, even where our products are ultimately selected, can have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we are required to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, and any adverse results from such evaluation may adversely affect investor perception, our stock price and cause us to incur additional expense. section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 requires our management to report on, and our independent auditors to attest to, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. we have an ongoing program to perform the system and process evaluation and testing necessary to comply with these requirements. we have and will continue to incur significant expenses and devote management resources to section 404 compliance on an ongoing basis. in the event that our chief executive officer, chief financial officer, or independent registered public accounting firm determine in the future that, our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective as defined under section 404, investor perceptions may be adversely affected if our financial statements are not reliable and could cause a decline in the market price of our stock and otherwise negatively affect our liquidity and financial condition. failure to maintain our credit ratings could adversely affect our cost of funds and related margins, liquidity, competitive position and access to capital markets. the major credit rating agencies routinely evaluate our indebtedness. this evaluation is based on a number of factors, which include financial strength as well as transparency with rating agencies and timeliness of financial reporting. there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our credit ratings and failure to do so could adversely affect our cost of funds and related margins, liquidity, competitive position and access to capital markets. we may be unable to generate the cash flow to service our debt obligations, including the senior notes and the revolving credit facility. in february 2014, we issued $350.0 million aggregate principal amount of 4.50% senior unsecured notes due 2024 (the 2024 notes ) and in march 2011, we issued $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes (the senior notes and together with the 2024 notes, the notes ), and (see discussion in note 10, long-term debt and financing, in the notes to consolidated financial statements of this report). as of december 31, 2014 , we had $1,349.0 million in outstanding long-term debt. in june 2014, we entered into a credit agreement with certain institutional lenders that provides for a five year $500.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility, with an option to increase the credit facility, up to a maximum of $700.0 million. the credit agreement will terminate in june 2019, at which point all amounts borrowed must be repaid. as of december 31, 2014 , no amounts were outstanding under the credit agreement. we may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to enable us to service our indebtedness, including the notes and the revolving credit facility (if drawn upon) or to make anticipated capital expenditures. our ability to pay our expenses and satisfy our debt obligations, refinance our debt obligations and fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. based upon current levels of operations, we believe cash flow from operations and available cash will be adequate for the foreseeable future to meet our anticipated requirements for working capital, capital expenditures and scheduled payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness, including the notes and the revolving credit facility (if drawn upon). however, if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or to borrow sufficient funds in the future to service our debt, we may be required to sell assets, reduce capital expenditures, refinance all or a portion of our existing debt (including the notes) or obtain additional financing. there is no assurance that we will be able to refinance our debt, sell assets or borrow more money on terms acceptable to us, or at all. the indentures that govern the notes contain various covenants that limit our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to, among other things: incur liens; incur sale and leaseback transactions; and consolidate or merge with or into, or sell substantially all of our assets to, another person. 27 table of contents the credit agreement contains two financial covenants along with customary affirmative and negative covenants that include the following: maintenance of a leverage ratio no greater than 3.0x and an interest coverage ratio no less than 3.0x covenants that limit or restrict the ability of the company and its subsidiaries to, among other things, grant liens, merge or consolidate, dispose of all or substantially all of its assets, change their accounting or reporting policies, change their business and incur subsidiary indebtedness, in each case subject to customary exceptions for a credit facility of this size and type. as a result of these covenants, we are limited in the manner in which we can conduct our business, and we may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or capital needs. accordingly, these restrictions may limit our ability to successfully operate our business. a failure to comply with these restrictions could lead to an event of default, which could result in an acceleration of the indebtedness. our future operating results may not be sufficient to enable compliance with these covenants to remedy any such default. in addition, in the event of an acceleration, we may not have or be able to obtain sufficient funds to make any accelerated payments, including those under the senior notes, any notes issued in connection with the recently-announced capital return program discussed above and the revolving credit facility (if drawn upon). our failure to pay quarterly dividends to our stockholders or the failure to meet our commitments to return capital to our stockholders could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. in october 2014, we announced a cash dividend of $0.10 per share of common stock payable on december 23, 2014 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on december 2, 2014. our ability to pay quarterly dividends will be subject to, among other things, our financial position and results of operations, available cash and cash flow, capital requirements and other factors. any failure to pay or increase future dividends as announced, reduction or discontinuation of quarterly dividends could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. in addition, our board of directors recently authorized a $1.1 billion increase to our current capital return plan, which includes a planned $1.5 billion of share repurchases before the end of the second quarter of 2015. the capital return plan will be funded by a combination of onshore cash, previously issued debt and potentially, additional debt financing, to preserve our financial flexibility to invest in future growth opportunities and maintain our investment grade credit rating. any failure to meet our commitments to return capital to our shareholders could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. the investment of our cash balance and our investments in government and corporate debt securities are subject to risks, which may cause losses and affect the liquidity of these investments. at december 31, 2014 , we had $1,639.6 million in cash and cash equivalents and $1,465.3 million in short- and long-term investments. we have invested these amounts primarily in asset-backed securities, certificates of deposit, commercial paper, corporate debt securities, foreign government debt securities, government- sponsored enterprise obligations, money market funds, mutual funds, publicly-traded equity securities, time deposits and u.s. government securities. certain of these investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market, sovereign debt, and interest rate risks. our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates or if the decline in fair value of our publicly traded debt or equity investments is judged to be other-than-temporary. these market risks associated with our investment portfolio may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations. uninsured losses could harm our operating results. we self-insure against many business risks and expenses, such as intellectual property litigation and our medical benefit programs, where we believe we can adequately self-insure against the anticipated exposure and risk or where insurance is either not deemed cost-effective or is not available. we also maintain a program of insurance coverage for various types of property, casualty, and other risks. we place our insurance coverage with various carriers in numerous jurisdictions. the types and amounts of insurance that we obtain vary from time to time and from location to location, depending on availability, cost, and our decisions with respect to risk retention. the policies are subject to deductibles, policy limits, and exclusions that result in our retention of a level of risk on a self-insurance basis. losses not covered by insurance could be substantial and unpredictable and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 28 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 55 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk we maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. the value of our investments is subject to market price volatility. in addition, as of december 31, 2014 , 85% of our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities were held outside of the u.s., which may be subject to u.s. taxes if repatriated. our marketable securities are generally classified as available-for-sale and, consequently, are recorded on our consolidated balance sheets at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income. these investments are also reviewed to identify and evaluate indications of potential other-than-temporary impairments as discussed in note 4, cash equivalents and investments, in notes to consolidated financial statements in item 8 of part ii of this report. at any time, a rise in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our investment portfolio. conversely, a decline in interest rates could have a material impact on interest income from our investment portfolio. we do not currently hedge these interest rate exposures. we recognized immaterial gains and losses during the years ended december 31, 2014 , 2013 , and 2012 , related to the sales of certain investments. the following tables present hypothetical changes in fair value of our available-for-sale fixed income securities held as of december 31, 2014 and 2013 that are sensitive to changes in interest rates (in millions): valuation of securities given an interest rate decrease of x bps fair value as of december 31, 2014 valuation of securities given an interest rate increase of x bps (150 bps) (100 bps) (50 bps) 50 bps 100 bps 150 bps available-for-sale fixed income securities $ 1,487.2 $ 1,481.6 $ 1,476.1 $ 1,470.6 $ 1,465.1 $ 1,459.5 $ 1,454.0 valuation of securities given an interest rate decrease of x bps fair value as of december 31, 2013 valuation of securities given an interest rate increase of x bps (150 bps) (100 bps) (50 bps) 50 bps 100 bps 150 bps available-for-sale fixed income securities $ 1,741.6 $ 1,734.4 $ 1,727.1 $ 1,719.9 $ 1,712.6 $ 1,705.3 $ 1,698.1 these instruments are not leveraged and are held for purposes other than trading. the modeling technique used measures the changes in fair value arising from selected potential changes in interest rates. market changes reflect immediate hypothetical parallel shifts in the yield curve of plus or minus 50 basis points ( bps ), 100 bps, and 150 bps, which are representative of the historical movements in the federal funds rate. foreign currency risk and foreign exchange forward contracts periodically, we use derivatives to hedge against fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. we do not enter into derivatives for speculative or trading purposes. we use foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate variability in gains and losses generated from the re-measurement of certain monetary assets and liabilities denominated in non-functional currencies. these derivatives are carried at fair value with changes recorded in other income (expense), net in our consolidated statements of operations in the same period as the changes in the fair value from the re-measurement of the underlying assets and liabilities. these foreign exchange contracts have maturities of one year or less. our sales and costs of product revenues are primarily denominated in u.s. dollars. our cost of service revenue and operating expenses are denominated in u.s. dollars as well as other foreign currencies including the british pound, the euro, indian rupee, and japanese yen. approximately 78% of such costs and operating expenses are denominated in u.s. dollars. periodically, we use foreign currency forward and/or option contracts to hedge certain forecasted foreign currency transactions to reduce variability in cost of service revenue and operating expenses caused by non-u.s. dollar denominated operating expense and costs. in designing a specific hedging approach, we consider several factors, including offsetting exposures, significance of exposures, costs associated with entering into a particular hedge instrument, and potential effectiveness of the hedge. these derivatives are designated as cash flow hedges and have maturities of less than one year. the effective portion of the derivative's gain or loss is initially reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income and, upon occurrence of the forecasted transaction, is subsequently reclassified into the line item in the consolidated statements of operations to which the hedged transaction relates. we record the ineffectiveness of the hedging instruments, which was immaterial during the years ended december 31, 2014 , 2013 , and 2012 , 55 table of contents respectively, in other income (expense), net on our consolidated statements of operations. the change in operating expenses including cost of service revenue, research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses, due to foreign currency fluctuations was a reduction to operating expenses of 2.1% in 2014 , and an increase of 0.8%, and 1.5% in 2013 , and 2012 , respectively. we have performed a sensitivity analysis as of december 31, 2014 and as of december 31, 2013 , using a modeling technique that measures the change in the amount of non-u.s. dollar cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities arising from a hypothetical 10% movement in the levels of foreign currency exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar, with all other variables held constant. the foreign currency exchange rates we used were based on market rates in effect on december 31, 2014 and december 31, 2013 , respectively. the sensitivity analysis indicated that a hypothetical 10% movement in foreign currency exchange rates would change the amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities we would report in u.s. dollars as of december 31, 2014 and december 31, 2013 by less than 1.2%. equity price risk our portfolio of publicly-traded equity securities and our non-qualified deferred compensation ( nqdc ) plan, which may also hold publicly-traded equity securities, are inherently exposed to equity price risk as the stock market fluctuates. we do not purchase our publicly-traded equity securities, classified as available-for-sale securities on our consolidated balance sheets, for speculative purposes. as of december 31, 2014 and december 31, 2013 , our portfolio of publicly-traded equity securities had an estimated fair value of $2.0 million and $114.6 million , respectively. a hypothetical 30% adverse change in the stock prices of our publicly-traded equity securities would result in a loss in the fair value of $0.7 million and $34.5 million as of december 31, 2014 and december 31, 2013 , respectively. investments under the nqdc plan are considered trading securities and are also reported at fair value on our consolidated balance sheets. as of december 31, 2014 and december 31, 2013 , the total investments under our nqdc plan were $16.3 million and $15.4 million , respectively. a hypothetical 30% adverse change on the total investments under the nqdc plan would result in a loss in the fair value of $4.9 million and $4.6 million as of december 31, 2014 and december 31, 2013 , respectively. we have also invested in privately-held companies. depending on the nature of these investments, some can be carried at cost and others can be carried at fair value. in 2014 , 2013 , and 2012 we recorded impairment charges of $1.1 million , $2.8 million , and $20.0 million , respectively, on our investments in privately-held companies that we judged to be other than temporary as discussed in note 5, fair value measurements , in notes to consolidated financial statements in item 8 of part ii of this report. the aggregate cost of our investments in privately-held companies was $89.9 million and $57.2 million as of december 31, 2014 and december 31, 2013 , respectively. 56 table of contentsrisk factors 17 risk factors factors that may affect future results investments in our securities involve significant risks. even small changes in investor expectations for our future growth and earnings, whether as a result of actual or rumored financial or operating results, changes in the mix of the products and services sold, acquisitions, industry changes, or other factors, could trigger, and have triggered in the past, significant fluctuations in the market price of our common stock. investors in our securities should carefully consider all of the relevant factors disclosed by us, including, but not limited to, the following factors, that could affect our business, operating results and stock price. our quarterly results are unpredictable and subject to substantial fluctuations; as a result, we may fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. our revenues and operating results may vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control and any of which may cause our stock price to fluctuate. the factors that may cause our quarterly results to vary quarter by quarter and be unpredictable include, but are not limited to: limited visibility into customer spending plans, changes in the mix of products and services sold, changes in the mix of geographies in which our products and services are sold, changing market and economic conditions, current and potential customer, partner and supplier consolidation and concentration, competition, long sales and implementation cycles, unpredictable ordering patterns, changes in the amount and frequency of share repurchases or dividends, regional economic and political conditions, and seasonality. for example, we, and many companies in our industry, experience adverse seasonal fluctuations in customer spending, particularly in the first quarter. furthermore, market trends, competitive pressures, commoditization of products, seasonal rebates, increased component or shipping costs, issues with product quality, regulatory impacts and other factors may result in reductions in revenue or pressure on gross margins of certain segments in a given period, which may necessitate adjustments to our operations. such adjustments may be difficult or impossible to execute in the short or medium term. as a result of these factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of operating results are not necessarily a good indication of what our future performance will be. it is likely that in some quarters, our operating results will be below our guidance, our long-term financial model or the expectations of securities analysts or investors, in which case the price of our common stock may decline. such a decline could occur, and has occurred in the past, even when we have met our publicly stated revenues and/or earnings guidance. a limited number of our customers comprise a significant portion of our revenues and there is an ongoing trend toward consolidation in the industry in which our customers and partners operate. any decrease in revenues from our customers or partners could have an adverse effect on our net revenues and operating results. a substantial majority of our net revenues depend on sales to a limited number of customers and distribution partners, particularly in our service provider market. changes in the business requirements, vendor selection, project prioritization, financial prospects, capital resources, and expenditures, or purchasing behavior (including product mix purchased) of our key customers could significantly decrease our sales to such customers or could lead to delays or cancellations of planned purchases of our products or services, which increases the risk of quarterly fluctuations in our revenues and operating results. any of these factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition, in recent years, there has been movement towards consolidation in the telecommunications industry (for example, altice's purchase of portugal telecom, liberty global's proposed acquisition of cable &amp; wireless communications, at&amp;t's acquisition of directv, and charter communications, inc.'s proposed acquisition of time warner cable, inc.) and that consolidation trend has continued. if our customers or partners are parties to consolidation transactions they may delay, suspend or indefinitely reduce or cancel their purchases of our products or other direct or indirect unforeseen consequences could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. fluctuating economic conditions make it difficult to predict revenues and gross margin for a particular period and a shortfall in revenues or increase in costs of production may harm our operating results. our revenues and gross margin depend significantly on general economic conditions and the demand for products in the markets in which we compete. economic weakness or uncertainty, customer financial difficulties, and constrained spending on network expansion and enterprise infrastructure have in the past resulted in, and may in the future result in, decreased revenues and earnings. such factors could make it difficult to accurately forecast sales and operating results and could negatively affect our ability to 17 table of contents provide accurate forecasts to our contract manufacturers and manage our contract manufacturer relationships and other expenses. in addition, economic instability or uncertainty, as well as continued turmoil in the geopolitical environment in many parts of the world, have, and may continue to, put pressure on economic conditions, which has led and could lead, to reduced demand for our products, to delays or reductions in network expansions or infrastructure projects, and/or higher costs of production. more generally-speaking, economic weakness may also lead to longer collection cycles for payments due from our customers, an increase in customer bad debt, restructuring initiatives and associated expenses, and impairment of investments. furthermore, instability in the global credit markets may adversely impact the ability of our customers to adequately fund their expected capital expenditures, which could lead to delays or cancellations of planned purchases of our products or services. our operating expenses are largely based on anticipated revenue trends and a high percentage of our expenses is, and will continue to be, fixed in the short and medium term. therefore, fluctuations in revenue could cause significant variations in our operating results and operating margins from quarter to quarter. uncertainty about future economic conditions also makes it difficult to forecast operating results and to make decisions about future investments. future or continued economic weakness, failure of our customers and markets to recover from such weakness, customer financial difficulties, increases in costs of production, and reductions in spending on network maintenance and expansion could result in price concessions in certain markets or have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and consequently on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our success depends upon our ability to effectively plan and manage our resources and restructure our business through rapidly fluctuating economic and market conditions, and such actions may have an adverse effect on our financial and operating results. our ability to successfully offer our products and services in a rapidly evolving market requires an effective planning, forecasting, and management process to enable us to effectively scale and adjust our business in response to fluctuating market opportunities and conditions. in periods of market expansion, we have increased investment in our business by, for example, increasing headcount and increasing our investment in r&amp;d, sales and marketing, and other parts of our business. conversely, in 2014, to refocus the company's strategy, optimize its structure and improve operational efficiencies, we implemented a new strategic focus, realigned our organization into a one-juniper structure, reduced our workforce, consolidated and closed facilities, made changes to enhance efficiency, improved cost management measures and instituted a new capital allocation plan. in connection with our cost management measures, we implemented a substantial cost reduction plan accomplished through various restructuring activities across research and development, sales and marketing and general and administrative. we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $850.0 million in the fourth quarter of 2014 due to the underperformance of our security reporting unit and product rationalizations. further strategy-related pivots could lead to delays in achieving revenue and profit forecasts and result in additional impairment. some of our expenses are fixed costs that cannot be rapidly or easily adjusted in response to fluctuations in our business or numbers of employees. rapid changes in the size, alignment or organization of our workforce, including sales account coverage, could adversely affect our ability to develop and deliver products and services as planned or impair our ability to realize our current or future business and financial objectives. our ability to achieve the anticipated cost savings and other benefits from our restructuring initiatives within the expected time frame is subject to many estimates and assumptions. these estimates and assumptions are subject to significant economic, competitive and other uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. if these estimates and assumptions are incorrect, if we are unsuccessful at implementing changes, or if other unforeseen events occur, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. we face intense competition that could reduce our revenues and adversely affect our business and financial results. competition is intense in the markets that we serve. the network equipment market has historically been dominated by cisco, with competition coming from other companies such as alcatel-lucent, arista, brocade, hp, and huawei. in the security market, we face intense competition from cisco and palo alto networks, as well as companies such as check point, f5 networks, fortinet, and hp. further, a number of other small public and private companies have products or have announced plans for new products to address the same challenges and markets that our products address. in addition, actual or speculated consolidation among competitors, or the acquisition by, or of, our partners and/or resellers by competitors can increase the competitive pressures faced by us as customers may delay spending decisions or not purchase our products at all. for example, in recent years, nokia corporation merged with alcatel-lucent, hp acquired aruba networks, and cisco acquired opendns and sourcefire, inc., which further consolidated our market. in addition, dell announced a proposed acquisition of emc, which we anticipate will further consolidate our market upon its consummation. a number of our competitors have substantially greater resources and can offer a wider range of products and services for the overall network equipment market than we do. in addition, some of our competitors have become more integrated, including through consolidation, and offer a 18 table of contents broader range of products and services, which could make their solutions more attractive to our customers. many of our competitors sell networking products as bundled solutions with other it products, such as computer and storage systems. if we are unable to compete successfully against existing and future competitors on the basis of product offerings or price, we could experience a loss in market share and revenues and/or be required to reduce prices, which could reduce our gross margins, and which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our partners and resellers generally sell or resell competing products on a non-exclusive basis and consolidation could delay spending or require us to increase discounts to compete, which could also adversely affect our business. we expect our gross margins and operating margins to vary over time, and the level of gross margins achieved by us in recent years may not be sustainable. we expect our product and service gross margins to vary from quarter-to-quarter, and the gross margins we have achieved in recent years may not be sustainable and may be adversely affected in the future by numerous factors, including customer, product and geographic mix shifts, increased price competition in one or more of the markets in which we compete, currency fluctuations that impact our costs or the cost of our products and services to our customers, increases in material, labor, or inventory carrying costs, excess product component or obsolescence charges from our contract manufacturers, increased costs due to changes in component pricing or charges incurred due to component holding periods if we do not accurately forecast product demand, warranty related issues, or our introduction of new products and enhancements or entry into new markets with different pricing and cost structures. for example, in fiscal year 2014, our margins declined compared to fiscal year 2013, as a result of higher inventory charges resulting from product rationalizations and an industry-wide memory product quality defect for a component from a third party. we determine our operating expenses largely on the basis of anticipated revenues and a high percentage of our expenses are fixed in the short and medium term. as a result, a failure or delay in generating or recognizing revenue could cause significant variations in our operating results and operating margin from quarter-to-quarter. failure to sustain or improve our gross margins reduces our profitability and may have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. further, we will continue to remain diligent in our long-term financial objective to increase revenue and operating margins and manage our operating expenses as a percentage of revenue. we expect that our margins will vary with our ability to achieve these goals. we can provide no assurance that we will be able to achieve all of the goals of these plans or meet our announced expectations, in whole or in part, or that our plans will have the intended effect of improving our margins on the expected timeline, or at all. conversion of key internal systems and processes, particularly our erp system, and problems with the design or implementation of these systems and processes could interfere with, and therefore harm, our business and operations. we have underway a multi-phase project to convert certain key internal systems and processes, including our customer relationship management, or crm, system and enterprise resource planning, or erp, system. since 2012, we have been implementing major changes to our erp system, which activities we expect to continue into 2016. in the third quarter of 2014, we implemented the manufacturing, fulfillment, and inventory portion of this erp project and were reliant upon dual erp systems until january 2016 when we moved to a single erp system. in connection with the transfer to our new erp system, we scheduled a shutdown of certain of our legacy erp systems, which may impact our dso and/or our cash collections in the first quarter of 2016. we are still early in the process of operating under our new erp system and may need to resolve issues that arise in connection with this transition. we have invested, and will continue to invest, significant capital and human resources in the design and implementation of these systems and processes. any problems, disruptions, delays or other issues in the design and implementation of the new systems or processes, particularly any that impact our operations, could adversely affect our ability to process customer orders, ship products, provide service and support to our customers, bill and track our customers, collect cash from our customers, maintain our dso measure, fulfill contractual obligations, record and transfer information in a timely and accurate manner, recognize revenue, file sec reports in a timely manner, or otherwise run our business. even if we do not encounter these adverse effects, as noted above, the design and implementation of these new systems and processes may be much more costly than we anticipated and in the event of lengthy project delays, we may experience issues with retention of the implementation team. if we are unable to successfully design and implement these new systems and processes as planned, or if the implementation of these systems and processes is more lengthy or costly than anticipated, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be negatively impacted. the long sales and implementation cycles for our products, as well as our expectation that some customers will sporadically place large orders with short lead times, may cause our revenues and operating results to vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter. a customer's decision to purchase certain of our products, particularly new products, involves a significant commitment of its resources and a lengthy evaluation and product qualification process. as a result, the sales cycle may be lengthy. in particular, customers making critical decisions regarding the design and implementation of large network deployments may engage in very 19 table of contents lengthy procurement processes that may delay or impact expected future orders. throughout the sales cycle, we may spend considerable time educating and providing information to prospective customers regarding the use and benefits of our products. even after making the decision to purchase, customers may deploy our products slowly and deliberately. timing of deployment can vary widely and depends on the skill set of the customer, the size of the network deployment, the complexity of the customer's network environment, and the degree of hardware and operating system configuration necessary to deploy the products. customers with large networks usually expand their networks in large increments on a periodic basis. accordingly, we may receive purchase orders for significant dollar amounts on an irregular basis. these long cycles, as well as our expectation that customers will tend to sporadically place large orders with short lead times, both of which may be exacerbated by the impact of continued global economic weakness, may cause revenues and operating results to vary significantly and unexpectedly from quarter-to-quarter. the timing of product orders and/or our reliance on revenue from sales of software or subscription and support and maintenance services may cause us to recognize revenue in a different period than the one in which a transaction takes place. this may make it difficult for investors to observe quarterly trends and may cause significant variations in our operating results and operating margin on a quarterly basis. generally, our network equipment products are stocked only in limited quantities by our distributors and resellers due to the cost, complexity and custom nature of configurations required by our customers; we generally build such products as orders are received. the volume of orders received late in any given fiscal quarter remains unpredictable. if orders for certain products are received late in any quarter, we may not be able to recognize revenue for these orders in the same period, which could adversely affect our ability to meet our expected revenues for such quarter. in addition, services revenue accounts for a significant portion of our revenue, comprising 27%, 26%, and 25% of total revenue in fiscal year 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively. sales of new or renewal support and maintenance contracts may decline and/or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including end-customers' level of satisfaction with our products and services, the prices of our products and services, the prices of products and services offered by our competitors, and reductions in our end-customers' spending levels. we recognize support and maintenance revenue periodically over the term of the relevant service period. the introduction of new software products is part of our intended strategy to expand our software business, and software revenues may be recognized periodically over the term of the relevant use period or subscription period. as a result, much of the software, subscription and support and maintenance revenue we report each fiscal quarter is the recognition of deferred revenue from software, subscription and support and maintenance contracts entered into during previous fiscal quarters. consequently, a decline in new or renewed contracts in any one fiscal quarter will not be fully or immediately reflected in revenue in that fiscal quarter but will negatively affect our revenue in future fiscal quarters. accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in new or renewed sales of our software, subscriptions or support and maintenance is not reflected in full in our operating results until future periods. also, it is difficult for us to rapidly increase our software or services revenue through additional software or services sales in any period, as revenue from new and renewal software, subscription and support and maintenance contracts must be recognized over the applicable service period. additionally, we determine our operating expenses largely on the basis of anticipated revenues and a high percentage of our expenses are fixed in the short and medium term. as a result, a failure or delay in generating or recognizing revenue could cause significant variations in our operating results and operating margin from quarter-to-quarter. we are dependent on sole source and limited source suppliers for several key components, which makes us susceptible to shortages or price fluctuations in our supply chain, and we may face increased challenges in supply chain management in the future. we rely on single or limited sources of certain of our components. during periods of high demand for electronic products, component shortages are possible, and the predictability of the availability of such components may be limited. any future spike in growth in our business, or more likely in it spending and the economy in general is likely to create greater short-term pressures on us and our suppliers to accurately forecast overall component demand and to establish optimal component inventories. if shortages or delays persist, the price of these components may increase, or the components may not be available at all. we may not be able to secure enough components at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build new products in a timely manner, and our revenues and gross margins could suffer until other sources can be developed. for example, from time to time, we have experienced component shortages that resulted in delays of product shipments. we currently purchase numerous key components, including asics and other semiconductor chips, from single or limited sources and many of our component suppliers are concentrated in china. in addition, there has been consolidation among certain suppliers of our components. for example, globalfoundries recently acquired ibm's semiconductor manufacturing business, avago technologies limited recently acquired broadcom corporation and intel corporation recently acquired altera corporation. consolidation among suppliers can result in the reduction of the number of independent suppliers of components available to us, which could negatively impact our ability to access certain 20 table of contents component parts or the prices we have to pay for such parts. any disruptions to our supply chain could decrease our sales, earnings and liquidity or otherwise adversely affect our business and result in increased costs. such a disruption could occur as a result of any number of events, including, but not limited to, increases in wages that drive up prices, the imposition of regulations, quotas or embargoes on key components, labor stoppages, transportation failures affecting the supply and shipment of materials and finished goods, the unavailability of raw materials, severe weather conditions, natural disasters, civil unrest, geopolitical developments, war or terrorism and disruptions in utility and other services. the development of alternate sources for key components is time-consuming, difficult, and costly. in addition, the lead times associated with certain components are lengthy and preclude rapid changes in quantities and delivery schedules. also, long-term supply and maintenance obligations to customers increase the duration for which specific components are required, which may further increase the risk of component shortages or the cost of carrying inventory. in the event of a component shortage or supply interruption from these suppliers, we may not be able to develop alternate or second sources in a timely manner. if we are unable to buy these components in quantities sufficient to meet our requirements on a timely basis, we will not be able to deliver products and services to our customers, which would seriously affect present and future sales, which would, in turn, adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition, the development, licensing, or acquisition of new products in the future may increase the complexity of supply chain management. failure to effectively manage the supply of key components and products would adversely affect our business. we rely on value-added and other resellers, as well as distribution partners, to sell our products, and disruptions to, or our failure to effectively develop and manage, our distribution channel and the processes and procedures that support it could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues from the sale of our products. our future success is highly dependent upon establishing and maintaining successful relationships with a variety of value-added and other reseller and distribution partners, including our worldwide strategic partners such as ericsson, ibm, nokia solutions and networks o.y., dimension data and nec corporation. the majority of our revenues are derived through value-added resellers and distributors, most of which also sell our competitors' products, and some of which sell their own competing products. our revenues depend in part on the performance of these partners. the loss of or reduction in sales to our resellers or distributors could materially reduce our revenues. for example, in 2011 and 2012, one of our oem partners, dell, acquired force10 and sonicwall, both competitors of ours. as a result, dell became increasingly competitive in certain areas, their resale of our products declined, and we ultimately terminated our oem relationship with dell. in addition, nokia corporation merged with alcatel-lucent, a competitor of ours, and cisco recently announced a partnership with ericsson, which is one of our existing partners. our competitors may in some cases be effective in leveraging their market share positions or in providing incentives to current or potential resellers and distributors to favor their products or to prevent or reduce sales of our products. if we fail to develop and maintain relationships with our partners, fail to develop new relationships with value-added resellers and distributors in new markets, fail to expand the number of distributors and resellers in existing markets, fail to manage, train or motivate existing value-added resellers and distributors effectively, determine that we cannot continue to do business with these partners for any reason or if these partners are not successful in their sales efforts, sales of our products may decrease, and our business, financial condition, and results of operations would suffer. in addition, we recognize a portion of our revenues based on a sell-through model using information provided by our distributors. if those distributors provide us with inaccurate or untimely information, the amount or timing of our revenues could be adversely impacted. further, in order to develop and expand our distribution channel, we must continue to offer attractive channel programs to potential partners and scale and improve our processes and procedures that support the channel. as a result, our programs, processes and procedures may become increasingly complex and inherently difficult to manage. we have previously entered into oem agreements with partners pursuant to which they rebrand and resell our products as part of their product portfolios. these types of relationships are complex and require additional processes and procedures that may be challenging and costly to implement, maintain and manage. our failure to successfully manage and develop our distribution channel and the programs, processes and procedures that support it could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues from the sale of our products. we also depend on our global channel partners to comply with applicable legal and regulatory requirements. to the extent that they fail to do so, that could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. 21 table of contents system security risks, data protection breaches, and cyber-attacks could compromise our proprietary information, disrupt our internal operations and harm public perception of our products, which could cause our business and reputation to suffer and adversely affect our stock price. in the ordinary course of business, we store sensitive data, including intellectual property, personal data, our proprietary business information and that of our customers, suppliers and business partners on our networks. in addition, we also store sensitive data through cloud-based services that may be hosted by third parties and in data center infrastructure maintained by third parties. the secure maintenance of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy. the growing cyber risk environment means that individuals, companies, and organizations of all sizes including us, are increasingly subject to the threat of intrusions on their networks and systems by a wide range of actors on an ongoing and regular basis. despite our security measures, and those of our third-party vendors, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to penetration or attacks by computer programmers, hackers or sophisticated nation-state and nation-state supported actors or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. if any breach compromises our networks, creates system disruptions or slowdowns or exploits security vulnerabilities of our products, the information stored on our networks could be accessed and modified, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen, and we may be subject to liability to our customers, suppliers, business partners and others, and suffer reputational and financial harm. in addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that we produce or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including "bugs" and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of our networks. this can be true even for legacy products that have been determined to have reached an end of life engineering status but will continue to operate for a limited amount of time. for example, in december 2015, we disclosed that we identified unauthorized code in our screenos security system that could allow a knowledgeable attacker to gain administrative access to netscreen devices and to decrypt vpn connections. following the identification of the screenos vulnerabilities, we launched an investigation into the matter, developed patched releases for the latest versions of screenos and notified customers, all of which required significant time and attention from management and our employees. we also announced that we are making additional changes to screenos in response to our additional analysis and the investigation is ongoing. at this time, we do not have an estimate of third party costs related to the screenos matter that could result from any third party claims brought against us, including, for example, indemnification for damages our customers may incur or actions instituted by governmental or regulatory entities that could result in fines or other penalties. costs related to the screenos matter, including the costs to resolve third party claims, costs relating to the investigation and the time and resources required to develop patched releases and further modify the products, may be material. as a result of the screenos matter, or any other actual or perceived breach of network security that occurs in our network or in the network of a customer of our products, regardless of whether the breach is attributable to our products, the market perception of the effectiveness of our products and our overall reputation could be harmed. because the techniques used by attackers, many of whom are highly sophisticated and well-funded, to access or sabotage networks change frequently and generally are not recognized until after they are used, we may be unable to anticipate or immediately detect these techniques or the vulnerabilities they have caused. this could impede our sales, manufacturing, distribution or other critical functions, which could have an adverse impact on our financial results. the economic costs to us to eliminate or alleviate cyber or other security problems, bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software systems and security vulnerabilities, including the screenos matter, could be significant and may be difficult to anticipate or measure because the damage may differ based on the identity and motive of the attacker, which are often difficult to pinpoint. additionally, we could be subject to regulatory investigations, potential fines and litigation in connection with a security breach or related issue and be liable to third parties for these types of breaches. our ability to process orders and ship products in a timely manner is dependent in part on our business systems and performance of the systems and processes of third parties such as our contract manufacturers, suppliers, data center providers or other partners, as well as the interfaces between our systems and the systems of such third parties. if our systems, the systems and processes of those third parties, or the interfaces between them experience delays or fail, our business processes and our ability to build and ship products could be impacted, and our financial results could be harmed. some of our business processes depend upon our information technology, or it, systems, the systems and processes of third parties, and the interfaces of our systems with the systems of third parties. for example, our order entry system feeds information into the systems of our contract manufacturers, which enables them to build and ship our products. if those systems fail or are interrupted, our processes may function at a diminished level or not at all. this could negatively impact our ability to ship products or otherwise operate our business, and our financial results could be harmed. for example, although it did not adversely affect our shipments, an earthquake in late december of 2006 disrupted our communications with china, where a significant part of our manufacturing occurs. in addition, as discussed earlier in this risk factors section, beginning in 2012 and continuing into 2016, we have been implementing major changes to our erp system. any failure of the new system or interruptions during the implementation process may impair communications with our manufacturers, and, therefore, adversely affect our ability to build and ship our products. 22 table of contents we are also in the process of further consolidating our on-site data centers to the cloud and to off-site facilities that are hosted and controlled by third-parties. these cloud providers and off-site facilities are vulnerable to damage, interruption or performance problems from earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures, equipment failure, adverse events caused by operator error and similar events. in addition, because we lease our cloud storage space and off-site data center facilities, we cannot be assured that we will be able to expand our data center infrastructure to meet user demand in a timely manner, or on favorable economic terms. if we have issues receiving and processing data, this may delay our ability to provide products and services to our customers and damage our business. we also rely upon the performance of the systems and processes of our contract manufacturers to build and ship our products. if those systems and processes experience interruption or delay, our ability to build and ship our products in a timely manner may be harmed. for example, we have experienced instances where our contract manufacturers were not able to ship products in the time periods expected by us, which prevented us from meeting our commitments to our customers. if we are not able to ship our products or if product shipments are delayed, our ability to recognize revenue in a timely manner for those products would be affected and our financial results could be harmed. telecommunications, cable and cloud service provider companies and our other large customers generally require onerous terms and conditions in our contracts with them. as we seek to sell more products to such customers, we may be required to agree to terms and conditions that could have an adverse effect on our business or ability to recognize revenues. telecommunications, cable and cloud service provider companies, which comprise a significant portion of our customer base, and other large companies, generally have greater purchasing power than smaller entities and, accordingly, often request and receive more favorable terms from suppliers. for example, our customers, france telecom-orange and deutsche telekom ag have formed a company for the purpose of purchasing products from, and negotiating more favorable contractual terms with, suppliers. as we seek to sell more products to this class of customer, we may be required to agree to such terms and conditions, which may include terms that affect the timing of our ability to recognize revenue, increase our costs and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. consolidation among such large customers can further increase their buying power and ability to require onerous terms. in addition, service providers have purchased products from other vendors who promised but failed to deliver certain functionality and/or had products that caused problems or outages in the networks of these customers. as a result, these customers may request additional features from us and require substantial penalties for failure to deliver such features or may require substantial penalties for any network outages that may be caused by our products. these additional requests and penalties, if we are required to agree to them, may require us to defer revenue recognition from such sales, which may negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, increased patent litigation brought against customers by non-practicing entities in recent years, may result, and in some cases has resulted, in customers requesting or requiring vendors to absorb a portion of the costs of such litigation or providing broader indemnification for litigation, each of which could increase our expenses and negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we do not successfully anticipate technological shifts, market needs and opportunities, and develop products, product enhancements and business strategies that meet those technological shifts, needs and opportunities, or if those products are not made available or strategies are not executed in a timely manner or do not gain market acceptance, we may not be able to compete effectively and our ability to generate revenues will suffer. the markets for our products are characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions, changes in customer requirements, continued price pressures and a constantly evolving industry. we cannot guarantee that we will be able to anticipate future technological shifts, market needs and opportunities or be able to develop new products, product enhancements or business strategies to meet such technological shifts, needs or opportunities in a timely manner or at all. for example, the move from traditional network infrastructures towards software-defined networking, or sdn, has been receiving considerable attention. in our view, it will take several years to see the full impact of sdn, and we believe the successful products and solutions in this market will combine hardware and software elements. if we fail to anticipate market requirements or opportunities or fail to develop and introduce new products, product enhancements or business strategies to meet those requirements or opportunities in a timely manner, it could cause us to lose customers, and such failure could substantially decrease or delay market acceptance and sales of our present and future products and services, which would significantly harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. even if we are able to anticipate, develop, and commercially introduce new products, enhancements or business strategies, there can be no assurance that new products, enhancements or business strategies will achieve widespread market acceptance. in the past two years, we have announced a number of new hardware and software products across routing, switching and security, including acx5000 and acx500 routers, qfx10000 line of spine switches, qfx5100, qfx5100-aa, qfx-pfa, srx300, srx1500, srx5000 and srx5800 series services gateways, ex9200 and ex4600 ethernet switches, new mx series line cards and routers (including the vmx 3d universal edge router), new ptx series line cards (powered by our expressplus custom 23 table of contents silicon), northstar controller, junos fusion, junos fusion provider edge, junos fusion data center, junos fusion enterprise, ocx1100, ptx1000, vsrx virtual firewall, sky advanced threat prevention, spotlight secure, junos space security director, junos space virtual director, juniper networks contrail networking and cloud cpe solution and nfx250 network services platform. the success of our new products depends on several factors, including, but not limited to, component costs, timely completion and introduction of these products, prompt resolution of any defects or bugs in these products, differentiation of new products from those of our competitors and market acceptance of these products. the introduction of new software products is part of our intended strategy to expand our software business. we have also begun to disaggregate certain software from certain hardware products, such that customers would be able to purchase or license our hardware and software products independently, which we expect could in time enable our hardware to be deployed with third party networking applications and services and our software to be used with third party hardware. for example, we have developed a disaggregated version of our junos software and recently introduced our qfx5200 series of switches, which runs our disaggregated junos software. the success of our strategy to expand our software business, including our strategy to disaggregate software from certain hardware products, is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including: the additional development efforts and costs required to create new software products and/or to make our disaggregated products compatible with multiple technologies; the possibility that our new software products or disaggregated products may not achieve widespread customer adoption; the potential that our strategy could erode our gross margins; the impact on our financial results of longer periods of revenue recognition and changes in tax treatment associated with software sales; the additional costs associated with regulatory compliance and changes we need to make to our distribution chain in connection with increased software sales; the ability of our disaggregated hardware and software products to operate independently and/or to integrate with current and future third party products; and the risk that issues with third party technologies used with our disaggregated products will be attributed to us. if any of our new products or business strategies do not gain market acceptance or meet our expectations for growth, our ability to meet future financial targets may be adversely affected and our competitive position and our business and financial results could be harmed. we are a party to lawsuits, investigations, proceedings, and other disputes, which are costly to defend and, if determined adversely to us, could require us to pay fines or damages, undertake remedial measures or prevent us from taking certain actions, any or all of which could harm our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. we, and certain of our current and former officers and current and former members of our board of directors, have been or are subject to various lawsuits. we have been served with lawsuits related to employment matters, commercial transactions and patent infringement, as well as securities laws. as noted in note 16, commitments and contingencies , in notes to consolidated financial statements of this report, under the heading of legal proceedings , the u.s. securities and exchange commission, or the sec, and the u.s. department of justice, or the doj, are conducting investigations into possible violations by the company of the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, or the fcpa, in a number of countries. the investigations relate to whether the company or any third party on behalf of the company gave money or anything else of value to any government official in violation of the fcpa. the company's audit committee, with the assistance of independent advisors, has been investigating and conducting a thorough review of possible violations of the fcpa, and has made recommendations for remedial measures, including employee disciplinary actions in foreign jurisdictions, which the company has implemented and continues to implement. litigation and investigations are inherently uncertain. we therefore cannot predict the duration, scope, outcome or consequences of litigation and government investigations. in connection with any government investigations, including those in which we are currently involved as described above, if the government takes action against us or we agree to settle the matter, we may be required to pay substantial fines and incur other sanctions, which may be material, and suffer reputational harm. the lawsuits and investigations are expensive and time-consuming to defend, settle, and/or resolve, and may require us to implement certain remedial measures that could prove costly or disruptive to our business and operations. the unfavorable resolution of one or more of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. 24 table of contents we are a party to litigation and claims regarding intellectual property rights, resolution of which may be time - consuming and expensive, as well as require a significant amount of resources to prosecute, defend, or make our products non-infringing. our industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent claims and related litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. we expect that infringement claims may increase as the number of products and competitors in our market increases and overlaps occur. third parties have asserted and may in the future assert claims or initiate litigation related to patent, copyright, trademark, and other intellectual property rights to technologies and related standards that are relevant to our products. the asserted claims and/or initiated litigation may include claims against us or our manufacturers, suppliers, partners, or customers, alleging that our products or services infringe proprietary rights. in addition, increased patent litigation brought by non-practicing entities in recent years may result, and in some cases has resulted, in our customers requesting or requiring us to absorb a portion of the costs of such litigation or providing broader indemnification for litigation, each of which could increase our expenses and negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. regardless of the merit of these claims, they have been and can be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, and may require us to develop non-infringing technologies, enter into license agreements, or cease engaging in certain activities or offering certain products or services. furthermore, because of the potential for high awards of damages or injunctive relief that are not necessarily predictable, even arguably unmeritorious claims may be settled for significant amounts of money. if any infringement or other intellectual property claim made against us or anyone we are required to indemnify by any third-party is successful, if we are required to settle litigation for significant amounts of money, if we fail to develop non-infringing technology or if we license required proprietary rights, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. regulation of industry in general and the telecommunications industry in particular could harm our operating results and future prospects. we are subject to laws and regulations affecting the sale of our products in a number of areas. for example, some governments have regulations prohibiting government entities from purchasing security products that do not meet specified indigenous certification criteria, even though those criteria may be in conflict with accepted international standards. other regulations that may negatively impact our business include country of origin regulations. these types of regulations are in effect or under consideration in several jurisdictions where we do business. the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act includes disclosure requirements applicable to public companies regarding the use of conflict minerals mined from the democratic republic of congo and adjoining countries, which we refer to collectively as the drc, and procedures regarding a manufacturer's efforts to prevent the sourcing of such conflict minerals. these minerals are present in our products. sec rules implementing these requirements may have the effect of reducing the pool of suppliers who can supply drc conflict free components and parts, and we may not be able to obtain drc conflict free products or supplies in sufficient quantities for our operations. since our supply chain is complex, we may face reputational challenges with our customers, stockholders and other stakeholders if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for the "conflict minerals" used in our products. in addition, environmental laws and regulations relevant to electronic equipment manufacturing or operations, including laws and regulations governing the hazardous material content of our products and laws relating to the collection of and recycling of electrical and electronic equipment, may adversely impact our business and financial condition. these laws and regulations include, among others, the european union, or eu, restriction on the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment directive, or rohs. the eu rohs and the similar laws of other jurisdictions limit the content of certain hazardous materials such as lead, mercury, and cadmium in the manufacture of electrical equipment, including our products. currently, our products comply with the eu rohs requirements. however, certain exemptions are scheduled to lapse in the future, including an exemption for lead in network infrastructure equipment upon which we and our competitors rely, and which is currently scheduled to expire in july 2016. the lapse of this exemption, further changes to this or other laws, or passage of similar laws in the eu or other jurisdictions, would require us to cease selling non-compliant products in the eu and to reengineer our products to use components compatible with these regulations. this reengineering and component substitution could result in additional costs to us, disrupt our operations or logistics, and result in an adverse impact on our operating results. in addition, in validating the compliance of our products with applicable hazardous materials restrictions, we rely substantially on affirmations by our component suppliers as to the compliance of their products with respect to those same restrictions. failure by our component suppliers to furnish accurate and timely information could subject us to penalties or liability for violation of such hazardous materials restrictions, interrupt our supply of products to the eu, and result in our customers refusing or being unable to purchase our products. additionally, the eu and a number of other countries have adopted regulations requiring producers of electrical and electronic equipment to assume certain responsibilities for collecting, treating, recycling and disposing of products when they have reached the end of their useful life. finally, the eu reach regulations regulate the handling of certain chemical substances that may be used in our products. 25 table of contents the traditional telecommunications industry is highly regulated, and our business and financial condition could be adversely affected by changes in regulations relating to the internet telecommunications industry. currently, there are few laws or regulations that apply directly to access to or commerce on ip networks, but future regulations could include sales taxes on products sold via the internet and internet service provider access charges. we could be adversely affected by regulation of ip networks and commerce in any country where we market equipment and services to service providers or cloud provider companies. regulations governing the range of services and business models that can be offered by service providers or cloud provider companies could adversely affect those customers' needs for products. for instance, the u.s. federal communications commission has issued regulations governing aspects of fixed broadband networks and wireless networks. these regulations, which are being challenged in court, might impact service provider and cloud provider business models and, as such, providers' needs for internet telecommunications equipment and services. also, many jurisdictions are evaluating or implementing regulations relating to cyber security, supply chain integrity, privacy and data protection, any of which can affect the market and requirements for networking and security equipment. the adoption and implementation of additional regulations could reduce demand for our products, increase the cost of building and selling our products, result in product inventory write-offs, impact our ability to ship products into affected areas and recognize revenue in a timely manner, require us to spend significant time and expense to comply, and subject us to fines and civil or criminal sanctions or claims if we were to violate or become liable under such regulations. any of these impacts could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. governmental regulations affecting the import or export of products or affecting products containing encryption capabilities could negatively affect our revenues. the united states and various foreign governments have imposed controls and restrictions on the import or export of, among other things, our products that contain or use encryption technology. most of our products contain or use encryption technology and, consequently, are subject to such controls, requirements and restrictions. in addition, from time to time, governmental agencies have proposed additional regulation of encryption technology, such as requiring certification, notifications, review of source code, limiting the encryption features or the escrow and governmental recovery of private encryption keys. for example, china recently has proposed new requirements relating to products containing encryption and india has imposed special warranty and other obligations associated with technology deemed critical. governmental regulation of encryption or ip networking technology and regulation of imports or exports, or our failure to obtain required import or export approval for our products, or export or related economic sanctions, including recent restrictions imposed by the u.s. and eu on exports to russia and ukraine, could harm our international and domestic sales and adversely affect our revenues. in addition, failure to comply with such regulations could result in harm to our reputation and ability to compete in international markets, penalties, costs, and restrictions on import or export privileges or adversely affect sales to government agencies or government-funded projects. our actual or perceived failure to adequately protect personal data could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. a variety of state, national, foreign, and international laws and regulations apply to the collection, use, retention, protection, disclosure, transfer, and other processing of personal data. these privacy- and data protection-related laws and regulations are evolving, with new or modified laws and regulations proposed and implemented frequently and existing laws and regulations subject to new or different interpretations. compliance with these laws and regulations can be costly and can delay or impede the development and offering of new products and services. for example, we historically have relied upon adherence to the u.s. department of commerce's safe harbor privacy principles and compliance with the u.s.-eu safe harbor framework agreed to by the u.s. department of commerce and the eu. the u.s.-eu safe harbor framework, which established means for legitimizing the transfer of personal data by u.s. companies from the european economic area, or eea, to the u.s., recently was invalidated by a decision of the european court of justice, or the ecj. in light of the ecj's decision, we are reviewing our business practices and may find it necessary or desirable to make changes to our personal data handling procedures and contractual arrangements to ensure our transfer and receipt of eea residents' personal data remains legitimized under applicable european law. our actual or alleged failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations, or to protect personal data, could result in enforcement actions, significant penalties or other legal action against us or our customers or suppliers, which could result in negative publicity, increase our operating costs, subject us to claims or other remedies and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 26 table of contents our ability to develop, market, and sell products could be harmed if we are unable to retain or hire key personnel. our future success depends upon our ability to recruit and retain the services of executive, engineering, sales and marketing, and support personnel. the supply of highly qualified individuals, in particular engineers in very specialized technical areas, or sales people specializing in the service provider and enterprise markets, is limited and competition for such individuals is intense. none of our officers or key employees is bound by an employment agreement for any specific term. the loss of the services of any of our key employees, the inability to attract or retain personnel in the future or delays in hiring required personnel, engineers and sales people, and the complexity and time involved in replacing or training new employees, could delay the development and introduction of new products, and negatively impact our ability to market, sell, or support our products. our financial condition and results of operations could suffer if there is an additional impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets with indefinite lives. we are required to test intangible assets with indefinite lives, including goodwill, annually or more frequently if certain circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit and intangible assets below their carrying values. as of december 31, 2015 , our goodwill was $2,981.3 million and there were no intangible assets with indefinite lives. when the carrying value of a reporting unit's goodwill exceeds its implied fair value of goodwill, a charge to operations is recorded. if the carrying amount of an intangible asset with an indefinite life exceeds its fair value, a charge to operations is recorded. either event would result in incremental expenses for that quarter, which would reduce any earnings or increase any loss for the period in which the impairment was determined to have occurred. in the past, we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $850.0 million due to the underperformance of our security reporting unit and product rationalizations. in recent years, economic weakness has contributed to extreme price and volume fluctuations in global stock markets that have reduced the market price of many technology company stocks, including ours. declines in our level of revenues due to restructuring or cost reductions or declines in our operating margins, as well as sustained declines in our stock price, increase the risk that goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives may become impaired in future periods. our goodwill impairment analysis is sensitive to changes in key assumptions used in our analysis, such as expected future cash flows, the degree of volatility in equity and debt markets, and our stock price. if the assumptions used in our analysis are not realized, it is possible that an impairment charge may need to be recorded in the future. we cannot accurately predict the amount and timing of any impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets. however, any such impairment would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. changes in effective tax rates or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income or other tax returns could adversely affect our results. our future effective tax rates could be subject to volatility or adversely affected by the following: earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated earnings in countries where we have higher statutory rates; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; expiration of, or lapses in, the r&amp;d tax credit laws applicable to us; transfer pricing adjustments related to certain acquisitions, including the license of acquired intangibles under our intercompany r&amp;d cost sharing arrangement; costs related to intercompany restructuring; tax effects of share-based compensation; challenges to our methodologies for valuing developed technology or intercompany arrangements; or changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles, or interpretations thereof. on october 5, 2015, the organisation for economic co-operation and development, or oecd, an international association of 34 countries including the u.s., published final proposals under its base erosion and profit shifting, or beps, action plan. the beps action plan includes fifteen actions to address beps in a comprehensive manner and represents a significant change to the international corporate tax landscape. these proposals, if adopted by countries, may increase tax uncertainty and adversely affect our provision for income taxes. in addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the internal revenue service, or irs, and other tax authorities. it is possible that tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and any adverse outcome of such a review or audit could have a negative effect on our financial position and operating results. we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes, but the determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires significant judgment by management, and there are transactions where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. although we believe that our estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our consolidated financial statements and may materially affect our financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made. there can be no assurance that the outcomes from continuous examinations will not have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 27 table of contents if we fail to accurately predict our manufacturing requirements, we could incur additional costs or experience manufacturing delays, which would harm our business. we provide demand forecasts to our contract manufacturers, who order components and plan capacity based on these forecasts. if we overestimate our requirements, our contract manufacturers may assess charges, or we may have liabilities for excess inventory, each of which could negatively affect our gross margins. for example, in certain prior quarters, our gross margins were reduced as a result of an inventory charge resulting from inventory we held in excess of forecasted demand. conversely, because lead times for required materials and components vary significantly and depend on factors such as the specific supplier, contract terms, and the demand for each component at a given time, and because our contract manufacturers are third-party manufacturers for numerous other companies, if we underestimate our requirements, as we have in certain prior quarters with respect to certain components, our contract manufacturers may have inadequate time, materials, and/or components required to produce our products, which could increase costs or delay or interrupt manufacturing of our products resulting in delays in shipments and deferral or loss of revenues and negatively impacting customer satisfaction. we are dependent on contract manufacturers with whom we do not have long-term supply contracts, and changes to those relationships, expected or unexpected, may result in delays or disruptions that could cause us to lose revenues and damage our customer relationships. we depend on independent contract manufacturers (each of which is a third-party manufacturer for numerous companies) to manufacture our products. although we have contracts with our contract manufacturers, these contracts do not require them to manufacture our products on a long-term basis in any specific quantity or at any specific price. in addition, it is time-consuming and costly to qualify and implement additional contract manufacturer relationships. therefore, if we fail to effectively manage our contract manufacturer relationships, which includes failing to provide accurate forecasts of our requirements, or if one or more of them experiences delays, disruptions, or quality control problems in our manufacturing operations, or if we had to change or add additional contract manufacturers or contract manufacturing sites, our ability to ship products to our customers could be delayed. also, the addition of manufacturing locations or contract manufacturers would increase the complexity of our supply chain management. moreover, an increasing portion of our manufacturing is performed in china and other countries and is therefore subject to risks associated with doing business outside of the united states. each of these factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may face difficulties enforcing our proprietary rights which could adversely affect our ability to compete. we generally rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secret laws and contractual restrictions on disclosure of confidential and proprietary information, to establish and maintain proprietary rights in our technology and products. although we have been issued numerous patents and other patent applications are currently pending, there can be no assurance that any of our patent applications will result in issued patents or that any of our patents or other proprietary rights will not be challenged, invalidated, infringed or circumvented or that our rights will, in fact, provide competitive advantages to us or protect our technology, any of which could result in costly product redesign efforts, discontinuance of certain product offerings and other competitive harm. in addition, despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. we generally enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants, vendors, and customers, and generally limit access to and distribution of our proprietary information. however, we cannot assure you that we have entered into such agreements with all parties who may have or have had access to our confidential information or that the agreements we have entered into will not be breached. we cannot guarantee that any of the measures we have taken will prevent misappropriation of our technology. furthermore, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. the outcome of any actions taken in these foreign countries may be different than if such actions were determined under the laws of the united states. although we are not dependent on any individual patents or group of patents for particular segments of the business for which we compete, if we are unable to protect our proprietary rights in a market, we may find ourselves at a competitive disadvantage to others who need not incur the substantial expense, time, and effort required to create innovative products that have enabled our success. 28 table of contents we are subject to risks arising from our international operations, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we derive a substantial portion of our revenues from our international operations, and we plan to continue expanding our business in international markets in the future. we conduct significant sales and customer support operations directly and indirectly through our distributors and vars in countries throughout the world and depend on the operations of our contract manufacturers and suppliers that are located outside of the united states. in addition, a portion of our r&amp;d and our general and administrative operations are conducted outside the united states. in some countries, we may experience reduced intellectual property protection. as a result of our international operations, we are affected by economic, business regulatory, social, and political conditions in foreign countries, including the following: changes in general it spending, the imposition of government controls, inclusive of critical infrastructure protection; changes or limitations in trade protection laws or other regulatory requirements, which may affect our ability to import or export our products from various countries; varying and potentially conflicting laws and regulations; fluctuations in local economies; wage inflation or a tightening of the labor market; and the impact of the following on service provider and government spending patterns: political considerations, unfavorable changes in tax treaties or laws, natural disasters, epidemic disease, labor unrest, earnings expatriation restrictions, misappropriation of intellectual property, military actions, acts of terrorism, political and social unrest and difficulties in staffing and managing international operations. any or all of these factors could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. moreover, local laws and customs in many countries differ significantly from or conflict with those in the united states or in other countries in which we operate. in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common for others to engage in business practices that are prohibited by our internal policies and procedures or u.s. regulations applicable to us. there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, channel partners, and agents will not take actions in violation of our policies and procedures, which are designed to ensure compliance with u.s. and foreign laws and policies. violations of laws or key control policies by our employees, contractors, channel partners, or agents could result in termination of our relationship, financial reporting problems, fines, and/or penalties for us, or prohibition on the importation or exportation of our products, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. because a substantial portion of our business is conducted outside the united states, we face exposure to adverse movements in non-u.s. currency exchange rates. these exposures may change over time as business practices evolve and could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. the majority of our revenues and expenses are transacted in u.s. dollars. we also have some transactions that are denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the british pound, euro, indian rupee, and japanese yen related to our sales and service operations outside of the united states. an increase in the value of the u.s. dollar could increase the real cost to our customers of our products in those markets outside the united states in which we sell in u.s. dollars. this could negatively affect our ability to meet our customers' pricing expectations in those markets and may result in erosion of gross margin and market share. a weakened u.s. dollar could increase the cost of local operating expenses and procurement of raw materials to the extent we must purchase components in foreign currencies. currently, we hedge only those currency exposures associated with certain assets and liabilities denominated in nonfunctional currencies and periodically hedge anticipated foreign currency cash flows. the hedging activities undertaken by us are intended to offset the impact of currency fluctuations on certain nonfunctional currency assets and liabilities. however, such attempts to 29 table of contents offset the impact of currency fluctuations are costly and no amount of hedging can be effective against all circumstances, including long-term declines in the value of the u.s. dollar. if our attempts to hedge against these risks are not successful, or if long-term declines in the value of the u.s. dollar persist, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted. integration of acquisitions could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition and stock price and may dilute the ownership of our stockholders. we have made, and may continue to make, acquisitions in order to enhance our business. for example, in january 2016, we entered into a definitive agreement to acquire bti systems inc.; in 2014, we acquired wandl, inc.; and in 2012, we acquired contrail systems inc. and mykonos software, inc. acquisitions involve numerous risks, including problems combining the purchased operations, technologies or products, unanticipated costs and liabilities, diversion of management's attention from our core businesses, adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers, risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience, and potential loss of key employees. there can be no assurance that we will be able to integrate successfully any businesses, products, technologies, or personnel that we might acquire. the integration of businesses that we may acquire is likely to be a complex, time-consuming, and expensive process and we may not realize the anticipated revenues or other benefits associated with our acquisitions if we fail to successfully manage and operate the acquired business. if we fail in any acquisition integration efforts and are unable to efficiently operate as a combined organization utilizing common information and communication systems, operating procedures, financial controls, and human resources practices, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected. in connection with certain acquisitions, we may agree to issue common stock or assume equity awards that dilute the ownership of our current stockholders, use a substantial portion of our cash resources, assume liabilities, record goodwill and amortizable intangible assets that will be subject to impairment testing on a regular basis and potential periodic impairment charges, incur amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets, and incur large and immediate write-offs and restructuring and other related expenses, all of which could harm our financial condition and results of operations. approximately $125 million of the transaction consideration we received from the divestiture of our junos pulse product portfolio is in the form of a non-contingent seller promissory note and we may not receive the amount owed to us (including accrued interest), including in the time frame contemplated, by the buyer under the note. in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2014, we completed the sale of our junos pulse product portfolio to an affiliate of siris capital, a private equity firm, for total consideration of $230.7 million , of which $105.7 million was in cash, net of a $19.3 million working capital adjustment, and $125.0 million was in the form of an 18-month non-contingent interest-bearing promissory note issued to the company. on october 2, 2015, the company and the issuer of the promissory note agreed to modify the original terms of the note to extend the maturity date from april 1, 2016 to december 31, 2018. since approximately $125.0 million of the transaction consideration is in the form of a non-contingent seller promissory note, there is the risk that we may not receive the amount owed to us (including accrued interest), including in the time frame contemplated, by the buyer under the note. in the event that the promissory note is not repaid on the terms we contemplate, any collection or restructuring efforts we undertake may be costly and require significant time and attention from our management. if we fail to adequately evolve our financial and managerial control and reporting systems and processes, our ability to manage and grow our business will be negatively affected. our ability to successfully offer our products and implement our business plan in a rapidly evolving market depends upon an effective planning and management process. we will need to continue to improve our financial and managerial control and our reporting systems and procedures in order to manage our business effectively in the future. if we fail to effectively implement improved systems and processes, our ability to manage our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be negatively affected. our products are highly technical and if they contain undetected defects, errors or malware or do not meet customer quality expectations, our business could be adversely affected, and we may be subject to additional costs or lawsuits or be required to pay damages in connection with any alleged or actual failure of our products and services. our products are highly technical and complex, are critical to the operation of many networks, and, in the case of our security products, provide and monitor network security and may protect valuable information. our products have contained and may contain one or more undetected errors, defects, malware, or security vulnerabilities. some errors in our products may only be discovered after a product has been installed and used by end-customers. for example, in december 2015, we disclosed that we identified unauthorized code in screenos that could allow a knowledgeable attacker to gain administrative access to netscreen devices and to decrypt vpn connections. 30 table of contents any errors, defects, malware or security vulnerabilities discovered in our products after commercial release could result in monetary penalties, loss of revenues or delay in revenue recognition, loss of customers, loss of future business and reputation, penalties, and increased service and warranty cost, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. following the identification of the screenos vulnerabilities, we launched an investigation into the matter, developed patched releases for the latest versions of screenos and notified customers, all of which required significant time and attention from management and our employees. in addition, in the event an error, defect, malware, or vulnerability is attributable to a component supplied by a third-party vendor, we may not be able to recover from the vendor all of the costs of remediation that we may incur. in addition, we could face claims for product liability, tort, or breach of warranty or indemnification. defending a lawsuit, regardless of its merit, is costly and may divert management's attention. if our business liability insurance coverage is inadequate, or future coverage is unavailable on acceptable terms or at all, our financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. moreover, if our products fail to satisfy our customers' quality expectations for whatever reason, the perception of and the demand for our products could be adversely affected. if our products do not interoperate with our customers' networks, installations will be delayed or cancelled and could harm our business. our products are designed to interface with our customers' existing networks, each of which have different specifications and utilize multiple protocol standards and products from other vendors. many of our customers' networks contain multiple generations of products that have been added over time as these networks have grown and evolved. our products must interoperate with many or all of the products within these networks as well as future products in order to meet our customers' requirements. if we find errors in the existing software or defects in the hardware used in our customers' networks, we may need to modify our software or hardware to fix or overcome these errors so that our products will interoperate and scale with the existing software and hardware, which could be costly and could negatively affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition, if our products do not interoperate with those of our customers' networks, demand for our products could be adversely affected or orders for our products could be cancelled. this could hurt our operating results, damage our reputation, and seriously harm our business and prospects. our products incorporate and rely upon licensed third-party technology, and if licenses of third-party technology do not continue to be available to us or are not available on terms acceptable to us, our revenues and ability to develop and introduce new products could be adversely affected. we integrate licensed third-party technology into certain of our products. from time to time, we may be required to license additional technology from third-parties to develop new products or product enhancements. third-party licenses may not be available or continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms. the failure to comply with the terms of any license, including free open source software, may result in our inability to continue to use such license. some of our agreements with our licensors may be terminated for convenience by them. in addition, we cannot be certain that our licensors are not infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties or that our licensors have sufficient rights to the licensed intellectual property in all jurisdictions in which we may sell our products. our inability to maintain or re-license any third-party licenses required in our products or our inability to obtain third-party licenses necessary to develop new products and product enhancements, could require us, if possible, to develop substitute technology or obtain substitute technology of lower quality or performance standards or at a greater cost, any of which could delay or prevent product shipment and harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we sell our products to customers that use those products to build networks and ip infrastructure, and if the demand for network and ip systems does not continue to grow, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. a substantial portion of our business and revenues depends on the growth of secure ip infrastructure and on the deployment of our products by customers that depend on the continued growth of ip services. as a result of changes in the economy, capital spending or the building of network capacity in excess of demand, all of which have in the past particularly affected telecommunications service providers, spending on ip infrastructure can vary, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition, a number of our existing customers are evaluating the build-out of their next generation networks. during the decision-making period when our customers are determining the design of those networks and the selection of the equipment they will use in those networks, such customers may greatly reduce or suspend their spending on secure ip infrastructure. such delays in purchases can make it more difficult to predict revenues from such customers can cause fluctuations in the level of spending by these customers and, even where our products are ultimately selected, can have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 31 table of contents we are required to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and publicly disclose material weaknesses in our controls. any adverse results from such evaluation may adversely affect investor perception, our stock price and cause us to incur additional expense. section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 requires our management to assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and to disclose in our filing if such controls were unable to provide assurance that a material error would be prevented. we have an ongoing program to implement and test the system and process controls necessary to comply with these requirements. we have and will continue to incur significant expenses and devote management resources to section 404 compliance. in the event that our chief executive officer, chief financial officer, or independent registered public accounting firm determine in the future that our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective as defined under section 404, investor perceptions regarding the reliability of our financial statements may be adversely affected which could cause a decline in the market price of our stock and otherwise negatively affect our liquidity and financial condition. failure to maintain our credit ratings could adversely affect our cost of funds and related margins, liquidity, competitive position and access to capital markets. the major credit rating agencies routinely evaluate our indebtedness. this evaluation is based on a number of factors, which include financial strength as well as transparency with rating agencies and timeliness of financial reporting. there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our credit ratings and failure to do so could adversely affect our cost of funds and related margins, liquidity, competitive position and access to capital markets. we may be unable to generate the cash flow to satisfy our expenses, make anticipated capital expenditures or service our debt obligations, including the senior notes and the revolving credit facility. in march 2015, we issued $300.0 million aggregate principal amount of 3.30% senior notes due 2020, which we refer to as the 2020 notes, and $300.0 million aggregate principal amount of 4.35% senior notes due 2025, which we refer to as the 2025 notes. in addition, in march 2014, we issued $350.0 million aggregate principal amount of 4.50% senior unsecured notes due 2024, which we refer to as the 2024 notes and in march 2011, we issued $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes, which we refer to as the senior notes and together with the 2020 notes, 2024 notes and 2025 notes, the notes (see discussion in note 10, debt and financing , in the notes to consolidated financial statements of this report). as of december 31, 2015 , we had $1,948.7 million in outstanding short-term and long-term debt. in june 2014, we entered into a credit agreement with certain institutional lenders that provides for a five year $500.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility, which we refer to as the revolving credit facility, with an option to increase the revolving credit facility, up to a maximum of $700.0 million. the credit agreement will terminate in june 2019, at which point all amounts borrowed must be repaid. as of december 31, 2015 , no amounts were outstanding under the credit agreement. we may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to enable us to satisfy our expenses, make anticipated capital expenditures or service our indebtedness, including the notes and the revolving credit facility (if drawn upon). our ability to pay our expenses, satisfy our debt obligations, refinance our debt obligations and fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. based upon current levels of operations, we believe cash flow from operations and available cash will be adequate for at least the next twelve months to meet our anticipated requirements for working capital, capital expenditures and scheduled payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness, including the notes and the revolving credit facility (if drawn upon). however, if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or to borrow sufficient funds in the future to service our debt, we may be required to sell assets, reduce capital expenditures, refinance all or a portion of our existing debt (including the notes), repatriate off-shore cash to the u.s. at unfavorable tax rates or obtain additional financing. there is no assurance that we will be able to refinance our debt, sell assets or borrow more money on terms acceptable to us, or at all. the indentures that govern the notes contain various covenants that limit our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to, among other things: incur liens; incur sale and leaseback transactions; and consolidate or merge with or into, or sell substantially all of our assets to, another person. 32 table of contents the credit agreement contains two financial covenants along with customary affirmative and negative covenants that include the following: maintenance of a leverage ratio no greater than 3.0x and an interest coverage ratio no less than 3.0x covenants that limit or restrict the ability of the company and its subsidiaries to, among other things, grant liens, merge or consolidate, dispose of all or substantially all of its assets, change their accounting or reporting policies, change their business and incur subsidiary indebtedness, in each case subject to customary exceptions for a credit facility of this size and type. as a result of these covenants, we are limited in the manner in which we can conduct our business, and we may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or capital needs. accordingly, these restrictions may limit our ability to successfully operate our business. a failure to comply with these restrictions could lead to an event of default, which could result in an acceleration of the indebtedness. our future operating results may not be sufficient to enable compliance with these covenants to remedy any such default. in addition, in the event of an acceleration, we may not have or be able to obtain sufficient funds to make any accelerated payments, including those under the notes, any notes issued in connection with the recently-announced capital return program discussed below and the revolving credit facility (if drawn upon). our failure to pay quarterly dividends to our stockholders or the failure to meet our commitments to return capital to our stockholders could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. in january 2016, we announced a cash dividend of $0.10 per share of common stock payable on march 22, 2016 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on march 1, 2016. our ability to pay quarterly dividends will be subject to, among other things, our financial position and results of operations, available cash and cash flow, capital requirements and other factors. any failure to pay or increase future dividends as announced, reduction or discontinuation of quarterly dividends could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. in addition, in july 2015 and october 2014, our board of directors authorized a $500.0 million and a $1.1 billion increase, respectively, to our current capital return plan. the capital return plan will be funded by a combination of onshore cash, previously issued debt and, potentially, additional debt financing, to preserve our financial flexibility to invest in future growth opportunities and maintain our investment grade credit rating. any failure to meet our commitments to return capital to our shareholders could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. the investment of our cash balance and our investments in government and corporate debt securities are subject to risks, which may cause losses and affect the liquidity of these investments. at december 31, 2015 , we had $1,420.9 million in cash and cash equivalents and $1,771.3 million in short- and long-term investments. we have invested these amounts primarily in asset-backed securities, certificates of deposit, commercial paper, corporate debt securities, foreign government debt securities, government- sponsored enterprise obligations, money market funds, mutual funds, publicly-traded equity securities, time deposits and u.s. government securities. certain of these investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market, sovereign debt, and interest rate risks. our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates or if the decline in fair value of our publicly traded debt or equity investments is judged to be other-than-temporary. these market risks associated with our investment portfolio may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations. uninsured losses could harm our operating results. we self-insure against many business risks and expenses, such as intellectual property litigation and our medical benefit programs, where we believe we can adequately self-insure against the anticipated exposure and risk or where insurance is either not deemed cost-effective or is not available. we also maintain a program of insurance coverage for various types of property, casualty, and other risks. we place our insurance coverage with various carriers in numerous jurisdictions. the types and amounts of insurance that we obtain vary from time to time and from location to location, depending on availability, cost, and our decisions with respect to risk retention. the policies are subject to deductibles, policy limits, and exclusions that result in our retention of a level of risk on a self-insurance basis. losses not covered by insurance could be substantial and unpredictable and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 33 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 60 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk we maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. the value of our investments is subject to market price volatility. in addition, as of december 31, 2015 , 94% of our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities were held outside of the united states, which may be subject to u.s. taxes if repatriated. our marketable securities are generally classified as available-for-sale and, consequently, are recorded on our consolidated balance sheets at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive loss. these investments are also reviewed to identify and evaluate indications of potential other-than-temporary impairments as discussed in note 4, cash equivalents and investments, in notes to consolidated financial statements in item 8 of part ii of this report. at any time, a rise in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our investment portfolio. conversely, a decline in interest rates could have a material impact on interest income from our investment portfolio. we do not currently hedge these interest rate exposures. we recognized immaterial gains and losses during the years ended december 31, 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 , related to the sales of certain investments. the following tables present hypothetical changes in fair value of our available-for-sale fixed income securities held as of december 31, 2015 and 2014 that are sensitive to changes in interest rates (in millions): valuation of securities given an interest rate decrease of x bps fair value as of december 31, 2015 valuation of securities given an interest rate increase of x bps (150 bps) (100 bps) (50 bps) 50 bps 100 bps 150 bps available-for-sale fixed income securities $ 1,769.0 $ 1,762.1 $ 1,755.1 $ 1,748.2 $ 1,741.3 $ 1,734.3 $ 1,727.4 valuation of securities given an interest rate decrease of x bps fair value as of december 31, 2014 valuation of securities given an interest rate increase of x bps (150 bps) (100 bps) (50 bps) 50 bps 100 bps 150 bps available-for-sale fixed income securities $ 1,487.2 $ 1,481.6 $ 1,476.1 $ 1,470.6 $ 1,465.1 $ 1,459.5 $ 1,454.0 these instruments are not leveraged and are held for purposes other than trading. the modeling technique used measures the changes in fair value arising from selected potential changes in interest rates. market changes reflect immediate hypothetical parallel shifts in the yield curve of plus or minus 50 basis points ( bps ), 100 bps, and 150 bps, which are representative of the historical movements in the federal funds rate. 60 table of contents foreign currency risk and foreign exchange forward contracts periodically, we use derivatives to hedge against fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. we do not enter into derivatives for speculative or trading purposes. we use foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate variability in gains and losses generated from the re-measurement of certain monetary assets and liabilities denominated in non-functional currencies. these derivatives are carried at fair value with changes recorded in other (expense) income, net in our consolidated statements of operations in the same period as the changes in the fair value from the re-measurement of the underlying assets and liabilities. these foreign exchange contracts have maturities of one year or less. our sales and costs of product revenues are primarily denominated in u.s. dollars. our cost of service revenue and operating expenses are denominated in u.s. dollars as well as other foreign currencies including the british pound, the euro, indian rupee, and japanese yen. approximately 78% of such costs and operating expenses are denominated in u.s. dollars. periodically, we use foreign currency forward and/or option contracts to hedge certain forecasted foreign currency transactions to reduce variability in cost of service revenue and operating expenses caused by non-u.s. dollar denominated operating expense and costs. in designing a specific hedging approach, we consider several factors, including offsetting exposures, significance of exposures, costs associated with entering into a particular hedge instrument, and potential effectiveness of the hedge. these derivatives are designated as cash flow hedges and have maturities of less than one year. the effective portion of the derivative's gain or loss is initially reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss and, upon occurrence of the forecasted transaction, is subsequently reclassified into the line item in the consolidated statements of operations to which the hedged transaction relates. we record the ineffectiveness of the hedging instruments, which was immaterial during the years ended december 31, 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 , respectively, in other (expense) income, net on our consolidated statements of operations. the change in operating expenses including cost of service revenue, research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses, due to foreign currency fluctuations was a reduction to operating expenses of 2.3%, 2.1% and 0.8% in 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , respectively. we have performed a sensitivity analysis as of december 31, 2015 and as of december 31, 2014 , using a modeling technique that measures the change in the amount of non-u.s. dollar cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities arising from a hypothetical 10% movement in the levels of foreign currency exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar, with all other variables held constant. the foreign currency exchange rates we used were based on market rates in effect on december 31, 2015 and december 31, 2014 , respectively. the sensitivity analysis indicated that a hypothetical 10% movement in foreign currency exchange rates would change the amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities we would report in u.s. dollars as of december 31, 2015 and december 31, 2014 by less than 1% and by less than 1.2%, respectively. equity price risk our portfolio of publicly-traded equity securities and our non-qualified deferred compensation ( nqdc ) plan, which may also hold publicly-traded equity securities, are inherently exposed to equity price risk as the stock market fluctuates. we do not purchase our publicly-traded equity securities, classified as available-for-sale securities on our consolidated balance sheets, for speculative purposes. as of december 31, 2015 and december 31, 2014 , our portfolio of publicly-traded equity securities had an estimated fair value of $8.8 million and $2.0 million , respectively. a hypothetical 30% adverse change in the stock prices of our publicly-traded equity securities would result in a loss in the fair value of $2.6 million and $0.7 million as of december 31, 2015 and december 31, 2014 , respectively. investments under the nqdc plan are considered trading securities and are also reported at fair value on our consolidated balance sheets. as of december 31, 2015 and december 31, 2014 , the total investments under our nqdc plan were $17.7 million and $16.3 million , respectively. a hypothetical 30% adverse change on the total investments under the nqdc plan would result in a loss in the fair value of $5.3 million and $4.9 million as of december 31, 2015 and december 31, 2014 , respectively. we have also invested in privately-held companies. depending on the nature of these investments, some can be carried at cost and others can be carried at fair value. in 2015 , there were no impairment charges on our investments in privately-held companies and in 2014 , and 2013 we recorded impairment charges of $1.1 million , and $2.8 million , respectively, on our investments in privately-held companies that we judged to be other than temporary as discussed in note 5, fair value measurements , in notes to consolidated financial statements in item 8 of part ii of this report. the aggregate cost of our investments in privately-held companies was $102.4 million and $89.9 million as of december 31, 2015 and december 31, 2014 , respectively. 61 table of contentsrisk factors 17 risk factors factors that may affect future results investments in our securities involve significant risks. even small changes in investor expectations for our future growth and earnings, whether as a result of actual or rumored financial or operating results, changes in the mix of the products and services sold, acquisitions, industry changes, or other factors, could trigger, and have triggered in the past, significant fluctuations in the market price of our common stock. investors in our securities should carefully consider all of the relevant factors disclosed by us, including, but not limited to, the following factors, that could affect our business, operating results and stock price. our quarterly results are unpredictable and subject to substantial fluctuations; as a result, we may fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. our revenues and operating results may vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control and any of which may cause our stock price to fluctuate. the factors that may cause our quarterly results to vary quarter by quarter and be unpredictable include, but are not limited to: limited visibility into customer spending plans, changes in customer mix, changes in the mix of products and services sold, changes in the mix of geographies in which our products and services are sold, changing market and economic conditions, current and potential customer, partner and supplier consolidation and concentration, competition, long sales and implementation cycles, unpredictable ordering patterns, changes in the amount and frequency of share repurchases or dividends, regional economic and political conditions, and seasonality. for example, we, and many companies in our industry, experience adverse seasonal fluctuations in customer spending, particularly in the first quarter. furthermore, market trends, competitive pressures, commoditization of products, seasonal rebates, increased component or shipping costs, issues with product quality, regulatory impacts and other factors may result in reductions in revenue or pressure on gross margins in a given period, which may necessitate adjustments to our operations. such adjustments may be difficult or impossible to execute in the short or medium term. as a result of these factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of operating results are not necessarily a good indication of what our future performance will be. it is likely that in some quarters, our operating results will be below our guidance, our long-term financial model or the expectations of securities analysts or investors, in which case the price of our common stock may decline and has declined in the past. such a decline could also occur, and has occurred in the past, even when we have met our publicly stated revenues and/or earnings guidance. fluctuating economic conditions make it difficult to predict revenues and gross margin for a particular period and a shortfall in revenues or increase in costs of production may harm our operating results. our revenues and gross margin depend significantly on general economic conditions and the demand for products in the markets in which we compete. economic weakness or uncertainty, customer financial difficulties, and constrained spending on network expansion and enterprise infrastructure have in the past resulted in, and may in the future result in, decreased revenues and earnings. such factors could make it difficult to accurately forecast sales and operating results and could negatively affect our ability to provide accurate forecasts to our contract manufacturers and manage our contract manufacturer relationships and other expenses. in addition, economic instability or uncertainty, as well as continued turmoil in the geopolitical environment in many parts of the world, have, and may continue to, put pressure on economic conditions, which has led and could lead, to reduced demand for our products, to delays or reductions in network expansions or infrastructure projects, and/or higher costs of production. more generally-speaking, economic weakness may also lead to longer collection cycles for payments due from our customers, an increase in customer bad debt, restructuring initiatives and associated expenses, and impairment of investments. furthermore, instability in the global markets may adversely impact the ability of our customers to adequately fund their expected capital expenditures, which could lead to delays or cancellations of planned purchases of our products or services. our operating expenses are largely based on anticipated revenue trends and a high percentage of our expenses is, and will continue to be, fixed in the short and medium term. therefore, fluctuations in revenue could cause significant variations in our operating results and operating margins from quarter to quarter. uncertainty about future economic conditions also makes it difficult to forecast operating results and to make decisions about future investments. future or continued economic weakness, failure of our customers and markets to recover from such weakness, customer financial difficulties, increases in costs of production, and reductions in spending on network maintenance and expansion could result in price concessions in certain markets or have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and consequently on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 17 table of contents our success depends upon our ability to effectively plan and manage our resources and restructure our business through rapidly fluctuating economic and market conditions, and such actions may have an adverse effect on our financial and operating results. our ability to successfully offer our products and services in a rapidly evolving market requires an effective planning, forecasting, and management process to enable us to effectively scale and adjust our business in response to fluctuating market opportunities and conditions. from time to time, we have increased investment in our business by, for example, increasing headcount, acquiring companies, and increasing our investment in r&amp;d, sales and marketing, and other parts of our business. conversely, in 2014, to refocus the company's strategy, optimize its structure and improve operational efficiencies, we implemented a new strategic focus, realigned our organization into a one-juniper structure, reduced our workforce, consolidated and closed facilities, made changes to enhance efficiency, improved cost management measures and instituted a new capital allocation plan. in connection with our cost management measures, we implemented a substantial cost reduction plan accomplished through various restructuring activities across research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative. we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $850.0 million in the fourth quarter of 2014 due to the underperformance of our security reporting unit and product rationalizations. further strategy-related pivots could lead to delays in achieving revenue and profit forecasts and result in additional impairment. some of our expenses are fixed costs that cannot be rapidly or easily adjusted in response to fluctuations in our business or numbers of employees. rapid changes in the size, alignment or organization of our workforce, including sales account coverage, could adversely affect our ability to develop and deliver products and services as planned or impair our ability to realize our current or future business and financial objectives. our ability to achieve the anticipated cost savings and other benefits from our restructuring initiatives within the expected time frame is subject to many estimates and assumptions. these estimates and assumptions are subject to significant economic, competitive and other uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. if these estimates and assumptions are incorrect, if we are unsuccessful at implementing changes, or if other unforeseen events occur, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. we expect our gross margins and operating margins to vary over time, and the level of gross margins achieved by us in recent years may not be sustainable. we expect our product and service gross margins to vary, both in the near-term and in the long-term, and the gross margins we have achieved in recent years may not be sustainable and may be adversely affected in the future by numerous factors, some of which have occurred and may occur in the future, including customer, product and geographic mix shifts, an increase or decrease in our software sales or services we provide, increased price competition in one or more of the markets in which we compete, changes in the actions of our competitors or their pricing strategies, which may be difficult to predict and respond to, currency fluctuations that impact our costs or the cost of our products and services to our customers, increases in material, labor, or inventory carrying costs, excess product component or obsolescence charges from our contract manufacturers, issues with manufacturing or component quality or efficiencies, increased costs due to changes in component pricing or charges incurred due to component holding periods if we do not accurately forecast product demand, warranty related issues, or our introduction of new products and enhancements or entry into new markets with different pricing and cost structures. for example, in fiscal year 2016, our margins decreased compared to fiscal year 2015, primarily due to elevated pricing pressure and product mix. in fiscal year 2015, our margins increased compared to fiscal year 2014, as a result of higher restructuring and other charges recorded in 2014 but not in 2015, in connection with the restructuring plan we initiated in the first quarter of 2014. in fiscal year 2014, our margins declined compared to fiscal year 2013, as a result of higher inventory charges resulting from product rationalizations in connection with our 2014 restructuring plan and an industry-wide memory product quality defect for a component from a third party. we determine our operating expenses largely on the basis of anticipated revenues and a high percentage of our expenses are fixed in the short and medium term. as a result, a failure or delay in generating or recognizing revenue could cause significant variations in our operating results and operating margin from quarter-to-quarter. failure to sustain or improve our gross margins reduces our profitability and may have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. further, we will continue to remain diligent in our long-term financial objective to increase revenue and operating margins and manage our operating expenses as a percentage of revenue. we expect that our margins will vary with our ability to achieve these goals. we can provide no assurance that we will be able to achieve all or any of the goals of these plans or meet our announced expectations, in whole or in part, or that our plans will have the intended effect of improving our margins on the expected timeline, or at all. 18 table of contents a limited number of our customers comprise a material portion of our revenues and any changes in the way they purchase products and services from us could affect our business. in addition, there is an ongoing trend toward consolidation in the industry in which our customers and partners operate. any decrease in revenues from our customers or partners could have an adverse effect on our net revenues and operating results. a material portion of our net revenues depend on sales to a limited number of customers and distribution partners, particularly in our service provider market. changes in the business requirements or focus, vendor selection, project prioritization, financial prospects, capital resources, and expenditures, or purchasing behavior (including product mix purchased) of our key customers could significantly decrease our sales to such customers or could lead to delays or cancellations of planned purchases of our products or services, which increases the risk of quarterly fluctuations in our revenues and operating results. any of these factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition, in recent years, there has been movement towards consolidation in the telecommunications industry (for example, altice's purchase of cablevision and portugal telecom, liberty global's acquisition of cable &amp; wireless communications, charter communications, inc.'s acquisition of time warner cable, inc., and centurylink's proposed acquisition of level 3 communications) and that consolidation trend has continued. certain telecommunications companies have also announced their intent towards vertical consolidation through acquisitions of media and content companies, such as verizon's proposed acquisition of yahoo and at&amp;t's proposed acquisition of time warner. if our customers or partners are parties to consolidation transactions they may delay, suspend or indefinitely reduce or cancel their purchases of our products or other direct or indirect unforeseen consequences could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we face intense competition that could reduce our revenues and adversely affect our business and financial results. competition is intense in the markets that we serve. the network equipment market has historically been dominated by cisco, with competition coming from other companies such as nokia corporation (following its acquisition of alcatel-lucent), arista, brocade, hpe, and huawei. in the security market, we face intense competition from cisco and palo alto networks, as well as companies such as check point, f5 networks, fortinet, and hpe. further, a number of other small public and private companies have products or have announced plans for new products to address the same challenges and markets that our products address. in addition, actual or speculated consolidation among competitors, or the acquisition by, or of, our partners and/or resellers by competitors can increase the competitive pressures faced by us as customers may delay spending decisions or not purchase our products at all. for example, in recent years, nokia corporation merged with alcatel-lucent, hpe acquired aruba networks, cisco acquired opendns, symantec corporation acquired blue coat systems, and dell acquired emc, which further consolidated our market. a number of our competitors have substantially greater resources and can offer a wider range of products and services for the overall network equipment market than we do. in addition, some of our competitors have become more integrated, including through consolidation, and offer a broader range of products and services, which could make their solutions more attractive to our customers. many of our competitors sell networking products as bundled solutions with other it products, such as computer and storage systems. if we are unable to compete successfully against existing and future competitors on the basis of product offerings or price, we could experience a loss in market share and revenues and/or be required to reduce prices, which could reduce our gross margins, and which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our partners and resellers generally sell or resell competing products on a non-exclusive basis and consolidation could delay spending or require us to increase discounts to compete, which could also adversely affect our business. the long sales and implementation cycles for our products, as well as our expectation that some customers will sporadically place large orders with short lead times, may cause our revenues and operating results to vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter. a customer's decision to purchase certain of our products, particularly new products, involves a significant commitment of its resources and a lengthy evaluation and product qualification process. as a result, the sales cycle may be lengthy. in particular, customers making critical decisions regarding the design and implementation of large network deployments may engage in very lengthy procurement processes that may delay or impact expected future orders. throughout the sales cycle, we may spend considerable time educating and providing information to prospective customers regarding the use and benefits of our products. even after making the decision to purchase, customers may deploy our products slowly and deliberately. timing of deployment can vary widely and depends on the skill set of the customer, the size of the network deployment, the complexity of the customer's network environment, and the degree of hardware and operating system configuration necessary to deploy the products. customers with large networks usually expand their networks in large increments on a periodic basis. accordingly, we may receive purchase orders for significant dollar amounts on an irregular basis. these long cycles, as well as our expectation that customers will tend to sporadically place large orders with short lead times, both of which may be exacerbated by the impact of continued global economic weakness, may cause revenues and operating results to vary significantly and unexpectedly from quarter-to-quarter. 19 table of contents the timing of product orders and/or our reliance on revenue from sales of software or subscription and professional, support and maintenance services may cause us to recognize revenue in a different period than the one in which a transaction takes place. this may make it difficult for investors to observe quarterly trends and may cause significant variations in our operating results and operating margin on a quarterly basis. generally, our network equipment products are stocked only in limited quantities by our distributors and resellers due to the cost, complexity and custom nature of configurations required by our customers; we generally build such products as orders are received. the volume of orders received late in any given fiscal quarter remains unpredictable. if orders for certain products are received late in any quarter, we may not be able to recognize revenue for these orders in the same period, which could adversely affect our ability to meet our expected revenues for such quarter. in addition, services revenue accounts for a significant portion of our revenue, comprising 29%, 27%, and 26% of total revenue in fiscal year 2016, 2015, and 2014, respectively. sales of new or renewal professional services, support and maintenance contracts may decline and/or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including end-customers' level of satisfaction with our products and services, the prices of our products and services, the prices of products and services offered by our competitors, and reductions in our end-customers' spending levels. we recognize professional services, support and maintenance revenue periodically over the term of the relevant service period. the introduction of new software products is part of our intended strategy to expand our software business, and software revenues may be recognized periodically over the term of the relevant use period or subscription period. as a result, much of the software, subscription and support and maintenance revenue we report each fiscal quarter is the recognition of deferred revenue from software, subscription and support and maintenance contracts entered into during previous fiscal quarters. consequently, a decline in new or renewed contracts in any one fiscal quarter will not be fully or immediately reflected in revenue in that fiscal quarter but will negatively affect our revenue in future fiscal quarters. accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in new or renewed sales of our software, subscriptions or support and maintenance is not reflected in full in our operating results until future periods. also, it is difficult for us to rapidly increase our software or services revenue through additional software or services sales in any period, as revenue from new and renewal software, subscription and support and maintenance contracts must be recognized over the applicable service period. additionally, we determine our operating expenses largely on the basis of anticipated revenues and a high percentage of our expenses are fixed in the short and medium term. as a result, a failure or delay in generating or recognizing revenue could cause significant variations in our operating results and operating margin from quarter-to-quarter. if we do not successfully anticipate technological shifts, market needs and opportunities, and develop products, product enhancements and business strategies that meet those technological shifts, needs and opportunities, or if those products are not made available or strategies are not executed in a timely manner or do not gain market acceptance, we may not be able to compete effectively and our ability to generate revenues will suffer. the markets for our products are characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions, changes in customer requirements, continued price pressures and a constantly evolving industry. we cannot guarantee that we will be able to anticipate future technological shifts, market needs and opportunities or be able to develop new products, product enhancements or business strategies to meet such technological shifts, needs or opportunities in a timely manner or at all. for example, the move from traditional network infrastructures towards software-defined networking, or sdn, has been receiving considerable attention. in our view, it will take several years to see the full impact of sdn, and we believe the successful products and solutions in this market will combine hardware and software elements. if we fail to anticipate market requirements or opportunities or fail to develop and introduce new products, product enhancements or business strategies to meet those requirements or opportunities in a timely manner, it could cause us to lose customers, and such failure could substantially decrease or delay market acceptance and sales of our present and future products and services, which would significantly harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition, if we invest time, energy and resources in developing products for a market that doesn't develop, it could likewise significantly harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. even if we are able to anticipate, develop, and commercially introduce new products, enhancements or business strategies, there can be no assurance that new products, enhancements or business strategies will achieve widespread market acceptance. in the past two years, we have announced a number of new products and enhancements to our hardware and software products across routing, switching and security, including acx5000 and acx500 routers, qfx10000 line of spine switches, qfx5100, qfx5200, qfx5100-aa, qfx-pfa, srx300, srx1500, srx5000 with express path and srx5800 series services gateways, ex9200, ex4600, ex2300 and ex3400 ethernet switches, new mx series line-cards and routers (including the vmx 3d universal edge router), new ptx series line cards (powered by our expressplus custom silicon), junos fusion provider edge, junos fusion data center, junos fusion enterprise, a disaggregated version of junos software, ptx1000, vsrx virtual firewall, sky advanced 20 table of contents threat prevention (atp), junos space security director, junos space virtual director, juniper networks contrail networking, contrail service orchestration, the nfx250 network services platform, csrx compact and containerized firewall, enhancements to junos space security director and sky atp, srx4100 and srx4200 firewalls, and junos space security director policy enforcer . the success of our new products depends on several factors, including, but not limited to, component costs, timely completion and introduction of these products, prompt resolution of any defects or bugs in these products, differentiation of new products from those of our competitors and market acceptance of these products. the introduction of new software products is part of our intended strategy to expand our software business. we have also begun to disaggregate certain software from certain hardware products, such that customers would be able to purchase or license our hardware and software products independently, which we expect could in time enable our hardware to be deployed with third party networking applications and services and our software to be used with third party hardware. for example, we have developed a disaggregated version of our junos software and introduced our qfx5200 series of switches, which runs our disaggregated junos software. the success of our strategy to expand our software business, including our strategy to disaggregate software from certain hardware products, is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including: the additional development efforts and costs required to create new software products and/or to make our disaggregated products compatible with multiple technologies; the possibility that our new software products or disaggregated products may not achieve widespread customer adoption; the potential that our strategy could erode our revenue and gross margins; the impact on our financial results of longer periods of revenue recognition and changes in tax treatment associated with software sales; the additional costs associated with regulatory compliance and changes we need to make to our distribution chain in connection with increased software sales; the ability of our disaggregated hardware and software products to operate independently and/or to integrate with current and future third party products; and the risk that issues with third party technologies used with our disaggregated products will be attributed to us. if any of our new products or business strategies do not gain market acceptance or meet our expectations for growth, our ability to meet future financial targets may be adversely affected and our competitive position and our business and financial results could be harmed. we are dependent on contract manufacturers with whom we do not have long-term supply contracts, and changes to or disruptions in those relationships or manufacturing processes, expected or unexpected, may result in delays that could cause us to lose revenues and damage our customer relationships. we depend on independent contract manufacturers (each of which is a third-party manufacturer for numerous companies) to manufacture our products. although we have contracts with our contract manufacturers, these contracts do not require them to manufacture our products on a long-term basis in any specific quantity or at any specific price. in addition, it is time-consuming and costly to qualify and implement additional contract manufacturer relationships. therefore, if we fail to effectively manage our contract manufacturer relationships, which includes failing to provide accurate forecasts of our requirements, or if one or more of them experiences delays, disruptions, or quality control problems in our manufacturing operations, or if we had to change or add additional contract manufacturers or contract manufacturing sites, our ability to ship products to our customers could be delayed. we have experienced in the past and may experience in the future an increase in the expected time required to manufacture our products or ship products. such delays could result in supply shortfalls that damage our ability to meet customer demand for those products and could cause our customers to purchase alternative products from our competitors. also, the addition of manufacturing locations or contract manufacturers or the introduction of new products by us would increase the complexity of our supply chain management. moreover, an increasing portion of our manufacturing is performed in china and other foreign countries and is therefore subject to risks associated with doing business outside of the united states, including the possibility of import tariffs imposed by the new administration. each of these factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 21 table of contents if we fail to accurately predict our manufacturing requirements, we could incur additional costs or experience manufacturing delays, which would harm our business. we provide demand forecasts for our products to our contract manufacturers and original design manufacturers, who order components and plan capacity based on these forecasts. if we overestimate our requirements, our original design or contract manufacturers may assess charges, or we may have liabilities for excess inventory, each of which could negatively affect our gross margins. for example, in certain prior quarters, our gross margins were reduced as a result of an inventory charge resulting from inventory we held in excess of forecasted demand. conversely, because lead times for required materials and components vary significantly and depend on factors such as the specific supplier, contract terms, and the demand for each component at a given time, and because our contract manufacturers are third-party manufacturers for numerous other companies, if we underestimate our requirements, as we have in certain prior quarters with respect to certain products, our contract manufacturers may have inadequate time, materials, and/or components required to produce our products, which could increase costs or delay or interrupt manufacturing of our products resulting in delays in shipments and deferral or loss of revenues and negatively impacting customer satisfaction. system security risks, data protection breaches, and cyber-attacks could compromise our proprietary information, disrupt our internal operations and harm public perception of our products, which could cause our business and reputation to suffer and adversely affect our stock price. in the ordinary course of business, we store sensitive data, including intellectual property, personal data, our proprietary business information and proprietary business information of our customers, suppliers and business partners on our networks. in addition, we store sensitive data through cloud-based services that may be hosted by third parties and in data center infrastructure maintained by third parties. the secure maintenance of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy. the growing cyber risk environment means that individuals, companies, and organizations of all sizes, including juniper, are increasingly subject to the threat of intrusions on their networks and systems by a wide range of actors on an ongoing and regular basis. despite our security measures, and those of our third-party vendors, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to penetration or attacks by computer programmers, hackers or sophisticated nation-state and nation-state supported actors or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. if any breach compromises our networks, creates system disruptions or slowdowns or exploits security vulnerabilities of our products, the information stored on our networks could be accessed and modified, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen, and we may be subject to liability to our customers, suppliers, business partners and others, and suffer reputational and financial harm. in addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that we produce or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including "bugs" and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of our networks. this can be true even for legacy products that have been determined to have reached an end of life engineering status but will continue to operate for a limited amount of time. for example, in december 2015, we disclosed that we identified unauthorized code in our screenos security system that could allow a knowledgeable attacker to gain administrative access to netscreen devices and to decrypt vpn connections. following the identification of the screenos vulnerabilities, we launched an investigation into the matter, developed patched releases for the latest versions of screenos and notified customers, all of which required significant time and attention from management and our employees. in addition, in april 2016, we made additional changes to screenos in response to our additional analysis as a part of an update of screenos. at this time, we do not have an estimate of third party costs related to the screenos matter that could result from any third party claims brought against us, including, for example, indemnification for damages our customers may incur or actions instituted by governmental or regulatory entities that could result in fines or other penalties. costs related to the screenos matter, including the costs to resolve third party claims, may be material. as a result of the screenos matter, or any other actual or perceived breach of network security that occurs in our network or in the network of a customer of our products, regardless of whether the breach is attributable to our products, the market perception of the effectiveness of our products and our overall reputation could be harmed. because the techniques used by attackers, many of whom are highly sophisticated and well-funded, to access or sabotage networks change frequently and generally are not recognized until after they are used, we may be unable to anticipate or immediately detect these techniques or the vulnerabilities they have caused. this could impede our sales, manufacturing, distribution or other critical functions, which could have an adverse impact on our financial results. the economic costs to us to eliminate or alleviate cyber or other security problems, bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software systems and security vulnerabilities, including the screenos matter, could be significant and may be difficult to anticipate or measure, because the damage may differ based on the identity and motive of the attacker, which are often difficult to pinpoint. additionally, we could be subject to regulatory investigations, potential fines and litigation in connection with a security breach or related issue and be liable to third parties for these types of breaches. 22 table of contents we are dependent on sole source and limited source suppliers for several key components, which makes us susceptible to shortages, quality issues or price fluctuations in our supply chain, and we may face increased challenges in supply chain management in the future. we rely on single or limited sources of certain of our components. during periods of high demand for electronic products, component shortages are possible, and the predictability of the availability of such components may be limited. for example, some optical transceivers and memory components used in our networking solutions might experience extended lead times, given the demand in the market. any future spike in growth in our business, or more likely in it spending and the economy in general is likely to create greater short-term pressures on us and our suppliers to accurately forecast overall component demand and to establish optimal component inventories. if shortages or delays persist, the price of these components may increase, or the components may not be available at all. we may not be able to secure enough components at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build new products in a timely manner, and our revenues and gross margins could suffer until other sources can be developed. for example, from time to time, we have experienced component shortages or quality issues that resulted in delays of product shipments and/or warranty claims. we currently purchase numerous key components, including asics and other semiconductor chips, from single or limited sources and many of our component suppliers are concentrated in china. in addition, there has been consolidation among certain suppliers of our components. for example, globalfoundries recently acquired ibm's semiconductor manufacturing business, avago technologies limited recently acquired broadcom corporation and intel corporation recently acquired altera corporation. consolidation among suppliers can result in the reduction of the number of independent suppliers of components available to us, which could negatively impact our ability to access certain component parts or the prices we have to pay for such parts. in addition, our suppliers may determine not to continue a business relationship with us for other reasons that may be beyond our control. any disruptions to our supply chain could decrease our sales, earnings and liquidity or otherwise adversely affect our business and result in increased costs. such a disruption could occur as a result of any number of events, including, but not limited to, increases in wages that drive up prices, the imposition of regulations, quotas or embargoes on key components, labor stoppages, transportation failures affecting the supply and shipment of materials and finished goods, the unavailability of raw materials, severe weather conditions, natural disasters, civil unrest, geopolitical developments, war or terrorism and disruptions in utility and other services. the development of alternate sources for key components is time-consuming, difficult, and costly. in addition, the lead times associated with certain components are lengthy and preclude rapid changes in quantities and delivery schedules. also, long-term supply and maintenance obligations to customers increase the duration for which specific components are required, which may further increase the risk of component shortages or the cost of carrying inventory. in the event of a component shortage or supply interruption from these suppliers, we may not be able to develop alternate or second sources in a timely manner. if we are unable to buy these components in quantities sufficient to meet our requirements on a timely basis, we will not be able to deliver products and services to our customers, which would seriously affect present and future sales, which would, in turn, adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition, the development, licensing, or acquisition of new products in the future may increase the complexity of supply chain management. failure to effectively manage the supply of key components and products would adversely affect our business. we rely on value-added and other resellers, as well as distribution partners, to sell our products, and disruptions to, or our failure to effectively develop and manage, our distribution channel and the processes and procedures that support it could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues from the sale of our products. our future success is highly dependent upon establishing and maintaining successful relationships with a variety of value-added and other reseller and distribution partners, including our worldwide strategic partners such as ericsson, ibm, dimension data and nec corporation. the majority of our revenues are derived through value-added resellers and distributors, most of which also sell our competitors' products, and some of which sell their own competing products. our revenues depend in part on the performance of these partners. the loss of or reduction in sales to our resellers or distributors could materially reduce our revenues. for example, in 2011 and 2012, one of our oem partners, dell, acquired force10 and sonicwall, both competitors of ours. as a result, dell became increasingly competitive in certain areas, their resale of our products declined, and we ultimately terminated our oem relationship with dell. in addition, in 2016, nokia corporation merged with alcatel-lucent, a competitor of ours, and in 2015 cisco recently announced a partnership with ericsson, which is one of our existing partners. our competitors may in some cases be effective in leveraging their market share positions or in providing incentives to current or potential resellers and distributors to favor their products or to prevent or reduce sales of our products. if we fail to develop and maintain relationships with our partners, fail to develop new relationships with value-added resellers and distributors in new markets, fail to expand the number of distributors and resellers in existing markets, fail to manage, train or motivate existing value-added resellers and distributors effectively, determine that we cannot continue to do business with these partners for any reason or if these partners are not successful in their sales efforts, sales of our products may decrease, and our business, financial condition, and results of operations would suffer. 23 table of contents in addition, we recognize a portion of our revenues based on a sell-through model using information provided by our distributors. if those distributors provide us with inaccurate or untimely information, the amount or timing of our revenues could be adversely impacted. further, in order to develop and expand our distribution channel, we must continue to offer attractive channel programs to potential partners and scale and improve our processes and procedures that support the channel. as a result, our programs, processes and procedures may become increasingly complex and inherently difficult to manage. we have previously entered into oem agreements with partners pursuant to which they rebrand and resell our products as part of their product portfolios. these types of relationships are complex and require additional processes and procedures that may be challenging and costly to implement, maintain and manage. our failure to successfully manage and develop our distribution channel and the programs, processes and procedures that support it could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues from the sale of our products. we also depend on our global channel partners to comply with applicable legal and regulatory requirements. to the extent that they fail to do so, that could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. our ability to process orders and ship products in a timely manner is dependent in part on our business systems and performance of the systems and processes of third parties such as our contract manufacturers, suppliers, data center providers or other partners, as well as the interfaces between our systems and the systems of such third parties. if our systems, the systems and processes of those third parties, or the interfaces between them experience delays or fail, our business processes and our ability to build and ship products could be impacted, and our financial results could be harmed. some of our business processes depend upon our information technology, or it, systems, the systems and processes of third parties, and the interfaces of our systems with the systems of third parties. for example, our order entry system feeds information into the systems of our contract manufacturers, which enables them to build and ship our products. if those systems fail or are interrupted, our processes may function at a diminished level or not at all. this could negatively impact our ability to ship products or otherwise operate our business, and our financial results could be harmed. for example, although it did not adversely affect our shipments, an earthquake in late december of 2006 disrupted our communications with china, where a significant part of our manufacturing occurs. we are also in the process of further consolidating our on-site data centers to the cloud and to off-site facilities that are hosted and controlled by third-parties. these cloud providers and off-site facilities are vulnerable to damage, interruption or performance problems from earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures, equipment failure, adverse events caused by operator error and similar events. in addition, because we lease our cloud storage space and off-site data center facilities, we cannot be assured that we will be able to expand our data center infrastructure to meet user demand in a timely manner, or on favorable economic terms. if we have issues receiving and processing data, this may delay our ability to provide products and services to our customers and damage our business. we also rely upon the performance of the systems and processes of our contract manufacturers to build and ship our products. if those systems and processes experience interruption or delay, our ability to build and ship our products in a timely manner may be harmed. for example, we have experienced instances where our contract manufacturers were not able to ship products in the time periods expected by us, which prevented us from meeting our commitments to our customers. if we are not able to ship our products or if product shipments are delayed, our ability to recognize revenue in a timely manner for those products would be affected and our financial results could be harmed. integration of acquisitions could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition and stock price and may dilute the ownership of our stockholders. we have made, and may continue to make, acquisitions in order to enhance our business. for example, in december 2016, we acquired appformix inc.; in august 2016, we acquired aurrion, inc.; and in april 2016, we acquired bti systems inc.; in 2014, we acquired wandl, inc.; and in 2012, we acquired contrail systems inc. and mykonos software, inc. acquisitions involve numerous risks, including, but not limited to, problems combining the purchased operations, technologies or products, unanticipated costs and liabilities, diversion of management's attention from our core businesses, adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers, risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience, and potential loss of key employees. there can be no assurance that we will be able to integrate successfully any businesses, products, technologies, or personnel that we might acquire. the integration of businesses that we may acquire is likely to be a complex, time-consuming, and expensive process and we may not realize the anticipated revenues or other benefits associated with our acquisitions if we fail to successfully manage and operate the acquired business. if we fail in any acquisition integration efforts and are unable to efficiently operate as a combined organization utilizing common information and communication systems, operating procedures, financial controls, and human resources practices, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected. 24 table of contents in connection with certain acquisitions, we may agree to issue common stock or assume equity awards that dilute the ownership of our current stockholders, use a substantial portion of our cash resources, assume liabilities, record goodwill and amortizable intangible assets that will be subject to impairment testing on a regular basis and potential periodic impairment charges, incur amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets, and incur large and immediate write-offs and restructuring and other related expenses, all of which could harm our financial condition and results of operations. telecommunications, cable and cloud service provider companies and our other large customers generally require onerous terms and conditions in our contracts with them. as we seek to sell more products to such customers, we may be required to agree to terms and conditions that could have an adverse effect on our business or ability to recognize revenues. telecommunications, cable and cloud service provider companies, which comprise a significant portion of our customer base, and other large companies, generally have greater purchasing power than smaller entities and, accordingly, often request and receive more favorable terms from suppliers. for example, our customers france telecom-orange and deutsche telekom ag have formed a company for the purpose of purchasing products from, and negotiating more favorable contractual terms with, suppliers. as we seek to sell more products to this class of customer, we may be required to agree to such terms and conditions, which may include terms that affect the timing of our ability to recognize revenue, increase our costs and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. consolidation among such large customers can further increase their buying power and ability to require onerous terms. in addition, service providers have purchased products from other vendors who promised but failed to deliver certain functionality and/or had products that caused problems or outages in the networks of these customers. as a result, these customers may request additional features from us and require substantial penalties for failure to deliver such features or may require substantial penalties for any network outages that may be caused by our products. these additional requests and penalties, if we are required to agree to them, may require us to defer revenue recognition from such sales, which may negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, increased patent litigation brought against customers by non-practicing entities in recent years, may result, and in some cases has resulted, in customers requesting or requiring vendors to absorb a portion of the costs of such litigation or providing broader indemnification for litigation, each of which could increase our expenses and negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we are a party to lawsuits, investigations, proceedings, and other disputes, which are costly to defend and, if determined adversely to us, could require us to pay fines or damages, undertake remedial measures or prevent us from taking certain actions, any or all of which could harm our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. we, and certain of our current and former officers and current and former members of our board of directors, have been or are subject to various lawsuits. we have been served with lawsuits related to employment matters, commercial transactions and patent infringement, as well as securities laws. as noted in note 16, commitments and contingencies , in notes to consolidated financial statements of this report, under the heading of legal proceedings , the u.s. securities and exchange commission, or the sec, and the u.s. department of justice, or the doj, are conducting investigations into possible violations by the company of the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, or the fcpa, in a number of countries. the investigations relate to whether the company or any third party on behalf of the company gave money or anything else of value to any government official in violation of the fcpa. the company's audit committee, with the assistance of independent advisors, has been investigating and conducting a thorough review of possible violations of the fcpa, and has made recommendations for remedial measures, including employee disciplinary actions in foreign jurisdictions, which the company has implemented and continues to implement. litigation and investigations are inherently uncertain. we therefore cannot predict the duration, scope, outcome or consequences of litigation and government investigations. in connection with any government investigations, including those in which we are currently involved as described above, if the government takes action against us or we agree to settle the matter, we may be required to pay substantial fines and incur other sanctions, which may be material, and suffer reputational harm. the lawsuits and investigations are expensive and time-consuming to defend, settle, and/or resolve, and may require us to implement certain remedial measures that could prove costly or disruptive to our business and operations. the unfavorable resolution of one or more of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. we are a party to litigation and claims regarding intellectual property rights, resolution of which may be time - consuming and expensive, as well as require a significant amount of resources to prosecute, defend, or make our products non-infringing. our industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent claims and related litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. we expect that infringement claims may increase as the number of products and competitors in our market increases and overlaps occur. third parties have asserted and may in the future assert claims or initiate litigation related to patent, copyright, trademark, and other intellectual property rights to technologies and related standards that are relevant to our products. the asserted claims and/or initiated litigation may include claims against us or our manufacturers, 25 table of contents suppliers, partners, or customers, alleging that our products or services infringe proprietary rights. in addition, increased patent litigation brought by non-practicing entities in recent years may result, and in some cases has resulted, in our customers requesting or requiring us to absorb a portion of the costs of such litigation or providing broader indemnification for litigation, each of which could increase our expenses and negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. regardless of the merit of these claims, they have been and can be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, and may require us to develop non-infringing technologies, enter into license agreements, or cease engaging in certain activities or offering certain products or services. furthermore, because of the potential for high awards of damages or injunctive relief that are not necessarily predictable, even arguably unmeritorious claims may be settled for significant amounts of money. if any infringement or other intellectual property claim made against us or anyone we are required to indemnify by any third-party is successful, if we are required to settle litigation for significant amounts of money, if we fail to develop non-infringing technology or if we license required proprietary rights, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. regulation of our industry in general and the telecommunications industry in particular could harm our operating results and future prospects. we are subject to laws and regulations affecting the sale of our products in a number of areas. for example, some governments have regulations prohibiting government entities from purchasing security products that do not meet specified indigenous certification criteria, even though those criteria may be in conflict with accepted international standards. other regulations that may negatively impact our business include country of origin regulations. these types of regulations are in effect or under consideration in several jurisdictions where we do business. the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act includes disclosure requirements applicable to public companies regarding the use of conflict minerals mined from the democratic republic of congo and adjoining countries, which we refer to collectively as the drc, and procedures regarding a manufacturer's efforts to prevent the sourcing of such conflict minerals. these minerals are present in our products. sec rules implementing these requirements may have the effect of reducing the pool of suppliers who can supply drc conflict free components and parts, and we may not be able to obtain drc conflict free products or supplies in sufficient quantities for our operations. since our supply chain is complex, we may face reputational challenges with our customers, stockholders and other stakeholders if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for the "conflict minerals" used in our products. in addition, the european union reached agreement in late 2016 on a eu-wide conflict minerals rule under which most eu importers of tin, tungsten, tantalum, gold and their ores will have to conduct due diligence to ensure the minerals do not originate from conflict zones and do not fund armed conflicts. large manufacturers also will have to disclose how they plan to monitor their sources to comply with the rules. the regulation is expected to be adopted in 2017 with compliance required by 2021. in addition, environmental laws and regulations relevant to electronic equipment manufacturing or operations, including laws and regulations governing the hazardous material content of our products and laws relating to the collection of and recycling of electrical and electronic equipment, may adversely impact our business and financial condition. these laws and regulations include, among others, the european union, or eu, restriction on the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment directive, or rohs. the eu rohs and the similar laws of other jurisdictions limit the content of certain hazardous materials, such as lead, mercury, and cadmium, in the manufacture of electrical equipment, including our products. currently, our products comply with the eu rohs requirements. however, certain exemptions are scheduled to lapse, or have lapsed, including an exemption for lead in network infrastructure equipment upon which we and our competitors had relied, which expired in july 2016. the lapse of this exemption, further changes to this or other laws, or passage of similar laws in the eu or other jurisdictions, would require us to cease selling non-compliant products in the eu and to reengineer our products to use components compatible with these regulations. this reengineering and component substitution could result in additional costs to us, disrupt our operations or logistics, and result in an adverse impact on our operating results. in addition, in validating the compliance of our products with applicable hazardous materials restrictions, we rely substantially on affirmations by our component suppliers as to the compliance of their products with respect to those same restrictions. failure by our component suppliers to furnish accurate and timely information could subject us to penalties or liability for violation of such hazardous materials restrictions, interrupt our supply of products to the eu, and result in our customers refusing or being unable to purchase our products. additionally, the eu and a number of other countries have adopted regulations requiring producers of electrical and electronic equipment to assume certain responsibilities for collecting, treating, recycling and disposing of products when they have reached the end of their useful life. finally, the eu reach regulations regulate the handling of certain chemical substances that may be used in our products. the traditional telecommunications industry is highly regulated, and our business and financial condition could be adversely affected by changes in regulations relating to the internet telecommunications industry. currently, there are few laws or regulations that apply directly to access to or commerce on ip networks, but future regulations could include sales taxes on products sold via the internet and internet service provider access charges. we could be adversely affected by regulation of ip networks and commerce in any country where we market equipment and services to service providers or cloud provider companies. regulations governing 26 table of contents the range of services and business models that can be offered by service providers or cloud provider companies could adversely affect those customers' needs for products. for instance, the u.s. federal communications commission has issued regulations governing aspects of fixed broadband networks and wireless networks. these regulations, which were challenged in court, and which the new federal communications commission leadership is considering removing or modifying, might impact service provider and cloud provider business models and, as such, providers' needs for internet telecommunications equipment and services. also, many jurisdictions are evaluating or implementing regulations relating to cyber security, supply chain integrity, privacy and data protection, any of which can affect the market and requirements for networking and security equipment. the adoption and implementation of additional regulations could reduce demand for our products, increase the cost of building and selling our products, result in product inventory write-offs, impact our ability to ship products into affected areas and recognize revenue in a timely manner, require us to spend significant time and expense to comply, and subject us to fines and civil or criminal sanctions or claims if we were to violate or become liable under such regulations. any of these impacts could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. governmental regulations and economic sanctions affecting the import or export of products generally or affecting products containing encryption capabilities could negatively affect our revenues and operating results. the united states and various foreign governments have imposed controls and restrictions on the import or export of, among other things, our products that contain or use encryption technology. most of our products contain or use encryption technology and, consequently, are subject to such controls, requirements and restrictions. in addition, from time to time, governmental agencies have proposed additional regulation of encryption technology, such as requiring certification, notifications, review of source code, limiting the encryption features or the escrow and governmental recovery of private encryption keys. for example, china has proposed new conditions on eligibility of encryption products for purchase by government and certain non-government organizations. india recently proposed and then withdrew regulations imposing serious conditions on the use of encryption in telecommunications products. we sell our products to both commercial customers and, directly and indirectly, to governments around the world. our ability to sell into substantial government markets (whether or not the products we sell include encryption) is vulnerable to changes in government procurement regulations, any associated local content requirements and changes in the government's interpretation of such regulations. in addition, the u.s. government has broader sanctions and embargoes that generally forbid supply of most items to or involving certain countries, territories, governments, legal entities and individuals, including recent restrictions imposed by the u.s. and eu on exports to russia and ukraine. we have implemented systems to detect and prevent sales into these countries or to prohibited entities or individuals, but there can be no assurance that they will always be effective. governmental regulation of encryption or ip networking technology and regulation of imports or exports, or our failure to obtain required import or export approval for our products, or related economic sanctions could harm our international and domestic sales and adversely affect our revenues and operating results. in addition, failure to comply with such regulations could result in harm to our reputation and ability to compete in international markets, penalties, costs, seizure of assets (including source code) and restrictions on import or export privileges or adversely affect sales to government agencies or government-funded projects. our actual or perceived failure to adequately protect personal data could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. a variety of state, national, foreign, and international laws and regulations apply to the collection, use, retention, protection, disclosure, transfer, and other processing of personal data. these privacy- and data protection-related laws and regulations are evolving, with new or modified laws and regulations proposed and implemented frequently and existing laws and regulations subject to new or different interpretations. compliance with these laws and regulations can be costly and can delay or impede the development and offering of new products and services. for example, we previously relied upon adherence to the u.s. department of commerce's safe harbor privacy principles and compliance with the u.s.-eu safe harbor framework, which we refer to as the safe harbor, agreed to by the u.s. department of commerce and the eu. the safe harbor, which established means for legitimizing the transfer of personal data by u.s. companies from the european economic area, or eea, to the u.s., was invalidated in 2015 by a decision of the european court of justice, or the ecj. now that the eu and u.s. have implemented a successor privacy framework called the privacy shield, we are reviewing and documenting our practices required to obtain certification under the privacy shield, in addition to entering into eu model contracts with our vendors where appropriate and feasible in anticipation of the possibility that the privacy shield may be legally challenged or voided like safe harbor in an uncertain political environment. in addition, the june 2016 approval by voters in the united kingdom, or u.k., of a referendum to leave the eu could require us to make additional changes to the way we conduct our business and transmit data between the u.k. and the eu. 27 table of contents our actual or alleged failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations, or to protect personal data, could result in enforcement actions, significant penalties or other legal action against us or our customers or suppliers, which could result in negative publicity, increase our operating costs, subject us to claims or other remedies and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our ability to develop, market, and sell products could be harmed if we are unable to retain or hire key personnel. our future success depends upon our ability to recruit and retain the services of executive, engineering, sales and marketing, and support personnel. the supply of highly qualified individuals, in particular engineers in very specialized technical areas, or sales people specializing in the service provider and enterprise markets, is limited and competition for such individuals is intense. none of our officers or key employees is bound by an employment agreement for any specific term. the loss of the services of any of our key employees, the inability to attract or retain personnel in the future or delays in hiring required personnel, engineers and sales people, and the complexity and time involved in replacing or training new employees, could delay the development and introduction of new products, and negatively impact our ability to market, sell, or support our products. a number of our team members are foreign nationals who rely on visas and entry permits in order to legally work in the united states and other countries. in recent years, the united states has increased the level of scrutiny in granting h-1(b), l-1 and other business visas. in addition, the current u.s. administration has indicated that immigration reform is a priority. compliance with united states immigration and labor laws could require us to incur additional unexpected labor costs and expenses or could restrain our ability to retain skilled professionals. any of these restrictions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial conditions. our financial condition and results of operations could suffer if there is an additional impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets with indefinite lives. we are required to test intangible assets with indefinite lives, including goodwill, annually or more frequently if certain circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit and intangible assets below their carrying values. as of december 31, 2016 , our goodwill was $3,081.7 million and intangible assets with indefinite lives was $49.0 million . when the carrying value of a reporting unit's goodwill exceeds its implied fair value of goodwill, or if the carrying amount of an intangible asset with an indefinite life exceeds its fair value, a charge to operations is recorded. either event would result in incremental expenses for that quarter, which would reduce any earnings or increase any loss for the period in which the impairment was determined to have occurred. in the past, we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $850.0 million due to the underperformance of our security reporting unit and product rationalizations. in recent years, economic weakness has contributed to extreme price and volume fluctuations in global stock markets that have reduced the market price of many technology company stocks, including ours. declines in our level of revenues due to restructuring or cost reductions or declines in our operating margins, or sustained declines in our stock price, increase the risk that goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives may become impaired in future periods. our goodwill impairment analysis is sensitive to changes in key assumptions used in our analysis, such as expected future cash flows, the degree of volatility in equity and debt markets, and our stock price. if the assumptions used in our analysis are not realized, it is possible that an impairment charge may need to be recorded in the future. we cannot accurately predict the amount and timing of any impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets. however, any such impairment would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. changes in effective tax rates or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income or other tax returns could adversely affect our results. our future effective tax rates could be subject to volatility or adversely affected by the following: earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated earnings in countries where we have higher statutory rates; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; expiration of, or lapses in, the r&amp;d tax credit laws applicable to us; transfer pricing adjustments related to certain acquisitions, including the license of acquired intangibles under our intercompany r&amp;d cost sharing arrangement; costs related to intercompany restructuring; tax effects of share-based compensation; challenges to our methodologies for valuing developed technology or intercompany arrangements; or changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles, or interpretations thereof. on october 5, 2015, the organisation for economic co-operation and development, or oecd, an international association of 35 countries including the u.s., published final proposals under its base erosion and profit shifting, or beps, action plan. the beps action plan includes fifteen actions to address beps 28 table of contents in a comprehensive manner and represents a significant change to the international corporate tax landscape. these proposals, as adopted by countries, may increase tax uncertainty and adversely affect our provision for income taxes. furthermore, the current u.s. administration and key members of congress have made public statements indicating that tax reform is a priority. certain changes to u.s. tax laws, including limitations on the ability to defer u.s. taxation on earnings outside of the united states until those earnings are repatriated to the united states, could affect the tax treatment of our foreign earnings. in addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the internal revenue service, or irs, and other tax authorities. it is possible that tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and any adverse outcome of such a review or audit could have a negative effect on our financial position and operating results. we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes, but the determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires significant judgment by management, and there are transactions where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. although we believe that our estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our consolidated financial statements and may materially affect our financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made. there can be no assurance that the outcomes from continuous examinations will not have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we may face difficulties enforcing our proprietary rights, which could adversely affect our ability to compete. we generally rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secret laws and contractual restrictions on disclosure of confidential and proprietary information, to establish and maintain proprietary rights in our technology and products. although we have been issued numerous patents and other patent applications are currently pending, there can be no assurance that any of our patent applications will result in issued patents or that any of our patents or other proprietary rights will not be challenged, invalidated, infringed or circumvented or that our rights will, in fact, provide competitive advantages to us or protect our technology, any of which could result in costly product redesign efforts, discontinuance of certain product offerings and other competitive harm. in addition, despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. we generally enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants, vendors, and customers, and generally limit access to and distribution of our proprietary information. however, we cannot assure you that we have entered into such agreements with all parties who may have or have had access to our confidential information or that the agreements we have entered into will not be breached. we cannot guarantee that any of the measures we have taken will prevent misappropriation of our technology. furthermore, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. the outcome of any actions taken in these foreign countries may be different than if such actions were determined under the laws of the united states. although we are not dependent on any individual patents or group of patents for particular segments of the business for which we compete, if we are unable to protect our proprietary rights in a market, we may find ourselves at a competitive disadvantage to others who need not incur the substantial expense, time, and effort required to create innovative products that have enabled our success. we are subject to risks arising from our international operations, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we derive a substantial portion of our revenues from our international operations, and we plan to continue expanding our business in international markets. we conduct significant sales and customer support operations directly and indirectly through our distributors and vars in countries throughout the world and depend on the operations of our contract manufacturers and suppliers that are located outside of the united states. in addition, a portion of our r&amp;d and our general and administrative operations are conducted outside the united states. in some countries, we may experience reduced intellectual property protection. as a result of our international operations, we are affected by economic, business regulatory, social, and political conditions in foreign countries, including the following: changes in general it spending, the imposition of government controls, inclusive of critical infrastructure protection; changes or limitations in trade protection laws or other regulatory requirements, which may affect our ability to import or export our products from various countries; varying and potentially conflicting laws and regulations; 29 table of contents fluctuations in local economies; wage inflation or a tightening of the labor market; tax policies that could have a business impact; potential import tariffs imposed by the united states; data privacy rules and other regulations that affect cross border data flow; and the impact of the following on customer spending patterns: political considerations, unfavorable changes in tax treaties or laws, natural disasters, epidemic disease, labor unrest, earnings expatriation restrictions, misappropriation of intellectual property, military actions, acts of terrorism, political and social unrest and difficulties in staffing and managing international operations. any or all of these factors could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition, the june 2016 approval by voters in the u.k. of a referendum to leave the eu, commonly referred to as brexit, has caused, and may continue to cause, uncertainty in the global markets. the u.k.'s proposed exit from the eu, if implemented, will take some period of time to complete and could result in regulatory changes that impact our business. for example, changes to the way service providers conduct business and transmit data between the u.k. and the eu could require us to make changes to the way we handle customer data. we will also review the impact of any resulting changes to eu or u.k. law that could affect our operations, such as labor policies, financial planning, product manufacturing, and product distribution. political and regulatory responses to the vote are still developing and we are in the process of assessing the impact the vote may have on our business as more information becomes available. nevertheless, because we conduct business in the eu, including the u.k., any of the effects of brexit, including those we cannot anticipate, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. moreover, local laws and customs in many countries differ significantly from or conflict with those in the united states or in other countries in which we operate. in many foreign countries, it is common for others to engage in business practices that are prohibited by our internal policies and procedures or u.s. regulations applicable to us. there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, channel partners, and agents will not take actions in violation of our policies and procedures, which are designed to ensure compliance with u.s. and foreign laws and policies. violations of laws or key control policies by our employees, contractors, channel partners, or agents could result in termination of our relationship, financial reporting problems, fines, and/or penalties for us, or prohibition on the importation or exportation of our products, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. because a substantial portion of our business is conducted outside the united states, we face exposure to adverse movements in non-u.s. currency exchange rates. these exposures may change over time as business practices evolve and could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. the majority of our revenues and expenses are transacted in u.s. dollars. we also have some transactions that are denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the british pound, euro, indian rupee, and japanese yen related to our sales and service operations outside of the united states. an increase in the value of the u.s. dollar could increase the real cost to our customers of our products in those markets outside the united states in which we sell in u.s. dollars. this could negatively affect our ability to meet our customers' pricing expectations in those markets and may result in erosion of gross margin and market share. a weakened u.s. dollar could increase the cost of local operating expenses and procurement of raw materials to the extent we must purchase components in foreign currencies. currently, we hedge only those currency exposures associated with certain assets and liabilities denominated in nonfunctional currencies and periodically hedge anticipated foreign currency cash flows. the hedging activities undertaken by us are intended to offset the impact of currency fluctuations on certain nonfunctional currency assets and liabilities. however, such attempts to offset the impact of currency fluctuations are costly and no amount of hedging can be effective against all circumstances, including 30 table of contents long-term declines in the value of the u.s. dollar. if our attempts to hedge against these risks are not successful, or if long-term declines in the value of the u.s. dollar persist, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted. approximately $125 million of the transaction consideration we received from the divestiture of our junos pulse product portfolio is in the form of a non-contingent seller promissory note and we may not receive the amount owed to us (including accrued interest), including in the time frame contemplated, by the buyer under the note. in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2014, we completed the sale of our junos pulse product portfolio to an affiliate of siris capital, a private equity firm, for total consideration of $230.7 million, of which $105.7 million was in cash, net of a $19.3 million working capital adjustment, and $125.0 million was in the form of an 18-month non-contingent interest-bearing promissory note issued to the company. on october 2, 2015, the company and the issuer of the promissory note agreed to modify the original terms of the note to extend the maturity date from april 1, 2016 to december 31, 2018. since approximately $125.0 million of the transaction consideration is in the form of a non-contingent seller promissory note, there is the risk that we may not receive the amount owed to us (including accrued interest), including in the time frame contemplated, under the note. in the event that the promissory note is not repaid on the terms we contemplate, any collection or restructuring efforts we undertake may be costly and require significant time and attention from our management and there is no guarantee that we will be able to recover the amounts owed to us in full. if we fail to adequately evolve our financial and managerial control and reporting systems and processes, our ability to manage and grow our business will be negatively affected. our ability to successfully offer our products and implement our business plan in a rapidly evolving market depends upon an effective planning and management process. we will need to continue to improve our financial and managerial control and our reporting systems and procedures in order to manage our business effectively in the future. if we fail to effectively improve our systems and processes, our ability to manage our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be negatively affected. our products are highly technical and if they contain undetected defects, errors or malware or do not meet customer quality expectations, our business could be adversely affected, and we may be subject to additional costs or lawsuits or be required to pay damages in connection with any alleged or actual failure of our products and services. our products are highly technical and complex, are critical to the operation of many networks, and, in the case of our security products, provide and monitor network security and may protect valuable information. our products have contained and may contain one or more undetected errors, defects, malware, or security vulnerabilities. some errors in our products may only be discovered after a product has been installed and used by end-customers. for example, in december 2015, we disclosed that we identified unauthorized code in screenos that could allow a knowledgeable attacker to gain administrative access to netscreen devices and to decrypt vpn connections. any errors, defects, malware or security vulnerabilities discovered in our products after commercial release could result in monetary penalties, loss of revenues or delay in revenue recognition, loss of customers, loss of future business and reputation, penalties, and increased service and warranty cost, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. following the identification of the screenos vulnerabilities, we launched an investigation into the matter, developed patched releases for the latest versions of screenos and notified customers, all of which required significant time and attention from management and our employees. in addition, in the event an error, defect, malware, or vulnerability is attributable to a component supplied by a third-party vendor, we may not be able to recover from the vendor all of the costs of remediation that we may incur. in addition, we could face claims for product liability, tort, or breach of warranty or indemnification. defending a lawsuit, regardless of its merit, is costly and may divert management's attention. if our business liability insurance coverage is inadequate, or future coverage is unavailable on acceptable terms or at all, our financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. moreover, if our products fail to satisfy our customers' quality expectations for whatever reason, the perception of and the demand for our products could be adversely affected. if our products do not interoperate with our customers' networks, installations will be delayed or cancelled and could harm our business. our products are designed to interface with our customers' existing networks, each of which have different specifications and utilize multiple protocol standards and products from other vendors. many of our customers' networks contain multiple generations of products that have been added over time as these networks have grown and evolved. our products must interoperate with many or all of the products within these networks as well as future products in order to meet our customers' requirements. if we find errors in the existing software or defects in the hardware used in our customers' networks, we may need to modify our software or hardware to fix or overcome these errors so that our products will interoperate and scale with the existing software and hardware, which could be costly and could negatively affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition, if our 31 table of contents products do not interoperate with those of our customers' networks, demand for our products could be adversely affected or orders for our products could be cancelled. this could hurt our operating results, damage our reputation, and seriously harm our business and prospects. our products incorporate and rely upon licensed third-party technology, and if licenses of third-party technology do not continue to be available to us or are not available on terms acceptable to us, our revenues and ability to develop and introduce new products could be adversely affected. we integrate licensed third-party technology into certain of our products. from time to time, we may be required to renegotiate our current third party licenses or license additional technology from third-parties to develop new products or product enhancements or to facilitate new business models. third-party licenses may not be available or continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms. the failure to comply with the terms of any license, including free open source software, may result in our inability to continue to use such license. some of our agreements with our licensors may be terminated for convenience by them. in addition, we cannot be certain that our licensors are not infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties or that our licensors have sufficient rights to the licensed intellectual property in all jurisdictions in which we may sell our products. our inability to maintain or re-license any third-party licenses required in our products or our inability to obtain third-party licenses necessary to develop new products and product enhancements, could require us, if possible, to develop substitute technology or obtain substitute technology of lower quality or performance standards or at a greater cost, any of which could delay or prevent product shipment and harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we sell our products to customers that use those products to build networks and ip infrastructure, and if the demand for network and ip systems does not continue to grow, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. a substantial portion of our business and revenues depends on the growth of secure ip infrastructure and on the deployment of our products by customers that depend on the continued growth of ip services. as a result of changes in the economy, capital spending or the building of network capacity in excess of demand, all of which have in the past particularly affected telecommunications service providers, spending on ip infrastructure can vary, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition, a number of our existing customers are evaluating the build-out of their next generation networks. during the decision-making period when our customers are determining the design of those networks and the selection of the software and equipment they will use in those networks, such customers may greatly reduce or suspend their spending on secure ip infrastructure. such delays in purchases can make it more difficult to predict revenues from such customers can cause fluctuations in the level of spending by these customers and, even where our products are ultimately selected, can have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we are required to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and publicly disclose material weaknesses in our controls. any adverse results from such evaluation may adversely affect investor perception, and our stock price. section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 requires our management to assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and to disclose in our filing if such controls were unable to provide assurance that a material error would be prevented or detected in a timely manner. we have an ongoing program to review the design of our internal controls framework in keeping with changes in business needs, implement necessary changes to our controls design and test the system and process controls necessary to comply with these requirements. if in the future, our internal controls over financial reporting are determined to be not effective resulting in a material weakness or significant deficiency, investor perceptions regarding the reliability of our financial statements may be adversely affected which could cause a decline in the market price of our stock and otherwise negatively affect our liquidity and financial condition. failure to maintain our credit ratings could adversely affect our cost of funds and related margins, liquidity, competitive position and access to capital markets. the major credit rating agencies routinely evaluate our indebtedness. this evaluation is based on a number of factors, which include financial strength as well as transparency with rating agencies and timeliness of financial reporting. there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our credit ratings and failure to do so could adversely affect our cost of funds and related margins, liquidity, competitive position and access to capital markets. 32 table of contents we may be unable to generate the cash flow to satisfy our expenses, make anticipated capital expenditures or service our debt obligations, including the senior notes and the revolving credit facility. in february 2016, we issued $350.0 million aggregate principal amount of 3.125% senior notes due 2019, which we refer to as the 2019 notes, and $150.0 million aggregate principal amount of 4.5% senior notes due 2024, which we refer to as the 2024 notes. in march 2015, we issued $300.0 million aggregate principal amount of 3.30% senior notes due 2020, which we refer to as the 2020 notes, and $300.0 million aggregate principal amount of 4.35% senior notes due 2025, which we refer to as the 2025 notes. in addition, in march 2014, we issued $350.0 million aggregate principal amount of our 2024 notes and in march 2011, we issued $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes, which we refer to as the senior notes and together with the 2019 notes, 2020 notes, 2024 notes and 2025 notes, the notes (see discussion in note 9, debt and financing , in the notes to consolidated financial statements of this report). as of december 31, 2016 , we had $2,133.7 million in outstanding long-term debt. in june 2014, we entered into a credit agreement with certain institutional lenders that provides for a five year $500.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility, which we refer to as the revolving credit facility, with an option to increase the revolving credit facility, up to a maximum of $700.0 million. the credit agreement will terminate in june 2019, at which point all amounts borrowed must be repaid. as of december 31, 2016 , no amounts were outstanding under the credit agreement. we may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to enable us to satisfy our expenses, make anticipated capital expenditures or service our indebtedness, including the notes and the revolving credit facility (if drawn upon). our ability to pay our expenses, satisfy our debt obligations, refinance our debt obligations and fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. based upon current levels of operations, we believe cash flow from operations and available cash will be adequate for at least the next twelve months to meet our anticipated requirements for working capital, capital expenditures and scheduled payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness, including the notes and the revolving credit facility (if drawn upon). however, if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or to borrow sufficient funds in the future to service our debt, we may be required to sell assets, reduce capital expenditures, refinance all or a portion of our existing debt (including the notes), repatriate off-shore cash to the u.s. at unfavorable tax rates or obtain additional financing. there is no assurance that we will be able to refinance our debt, sell assets or borrow more money on terms acceptable to us, or at all. the indentures that govern the notes contain various covenants that limit our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to, among other things: incur liens; incur sale and leaseback transactions; and consolidate or merge with or into, or sell substantially all of our assets to, another person. the credit agreement contains two financial covenants along with customary affirmative and negative covenants that include the following: maintenance of a leverage ratio no greater than 3.0x and an interest coverage ratio no less than 3.0x covenants that limit or restrict the ability of the company and its subsidiaries to, among other things, grant liens, merge or consolidate, dispose of all or substantially all of its assets, change their accounting or reporting policies, change their business and incur subsidiary indebtedness, in each case subject to customary exceptions for a credit facility of this size and type. as a result of these covenants, we are limited in the manner in which we can conduct our business, and we may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or capital needs. accordingly, these restrictions may limit our ability to successfully operate our business. a failure to comply with these restrictions could lead to an event of default, which could result in an acceleration of the indebtedness. our future operating results may not be sufficient to enable compliance with these covenants to remedy any such default. in addition, in the event of an acceleration, we may not have or be able to obtain sufficient funds to make any accelerated payments, including those under the notes, and the revolving credit facility (if drawn upon). 33 table of contents our failure to pay quarterly dividends to our stockholders or the failure to meet our commitments to return capital to our stockholders could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. in january 2017, we announced a cash dividend of $0.10 per share of common stock payable on march 22, 2017 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on march 1, 2017. our ability to pay quarterly dividends or achieve our intended capital return policy will be subject to, among other things, our financial position and results of operations, available cash and cash flow, capital and debt service requirements, use of cash for acquisitions and other factors. any failure to pay or increase future dividends as announced, or a reduction or discontinuation of quarterly dividends could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. we have announced that, beginning in 2017, we intend to target a capital return policy, inclusive of share repurchases and dividends, of approximately 50% of annual free cash flow. free cash flow is calculated as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures. any failure to meet our commitments to return capital to our shareholders could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. the investment of our cash balance and our investments in government and corporate debt securities are subject to risks, which may cause losses and affect the liquidity of these investments. at december 31, 2016 , we had $1,833.2 million in cash and cash equivalents and $1,824.1 million in short- and long-term investments. we have invested these amounts primarily in asset-backed securities, certificates of deposit, commercial paper, corporate debt securities, foreign government debt securities, government- sponsored enterprise obligations, money market funds, mutual funds, publicly-traded equity securities, time deposits and u.s. government securities. certain of these investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market, sovereign debt, and interest rate risks. our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates or if the decline in fair value of our publicly traded debt or equity investments is judged to be other-than-temporary. these market risks associated with our investment portfolio may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations. our amended and restated bylaws provide that the court of chancery of the state of delaware will be the sole and exclusive forum for substantially all disputes between us and our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers, or employees. our amended and restated bylaws provide that, unless we consent to the selection of an alternative forum, the court of chancery of the state of delaware (or if the court of chancery does not have jurisdiction, the u.s. district court for the district of delaware) is the sole and exclusive forum for (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf; (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of fiduciary duty owed by any of our current or former directors, officers, or other employees to us or to our stockholders; (iii) any action asserting a claim arising pursuant to the delaware general corporation law, our restated certificate of incorporation, or our bylaws; (iv) any action or proceeding asserting a claim as to which delaware general corporation law confers jurisdiction on the court of chancery or (v) any action asserting a claim governed by the internal affairs doctrine. the exclusive forum provisions in our bylaws may limit a stockholder's ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our current or former directors, officers, or other employees, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our current or former directors, officers, and other employees. alternatively, if a court were to find the exclusive forum provisions contained in our bylaws to be inapplicable or unenforceable in an action, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such action in other jurisdictions, which could have a material and adverse impact on our business. uninsured losses could harm our operating results. we self-insure against many business risks and expenses, such as intellectual property litigation and our medical benefit programs, where we believe we can adequately self-insure against the anticipated exposure and risk or where insurance is either not deemed cost-effective or is not available. we also maintain a program of insurance coverage for various types of property, casualty, and other risks. we place our insurance coverage with various carriers in numerous jurisdictions. the types and amounts of insurance that we obtain vary from time to time and from location to location, depending on availability, cost, and our decisions with respect to risk retention. the policies are subject to deductibles, policy limits, and exclusions that result in our retention of a level of risk on a self-insurance basis. losses not covered by insurance could be substantial and unpredictable and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 34 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 60 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk we maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. the value of our investments is subject to market price volatility. in addition, as of december 31, 2016 , 87% of our cash, cash equivalents, and investments were held outside of the united states, which may be subject to u.s. taxes if repatriated. our investments are generally classified as available-for-sale and, consequently, are recorded on our consolidated balance sheets at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive loss. these investments are also reviewed to identify and evaluate indications of potential other-than-temporary impairments as discussed in note 4, cash equivalents and investments, in notes to consolidated financial statements in item 8 of part ii of this report. at any time, a rise in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our investment portfolio. conversely, a decline in interest rates could have a material impact on interest income from our investment portfolio. we do not currently hedge these interest rate exposures. we recognized immaterial gains and losses during the years ended december 31, 2016 , 2015 , and 2014 , related to the sales of certain investments. the following tables present hypothetical changes in fair value of our available-for-sale fixed income securities held as of december 31, 2016 that are sensitive to changes in interest rates (in millions): valuation of securities given an interest rate decrease of bps fair value as of december 31, 2016 valuation of securities given an interest rate increase of bps (150 bps) (100 bps) (50 bps) 50 bps 100 bps 150 bps available-for-sale fixed income securities $ 2,199.0 $ 2,191.8 $ 2,184.5 $ 2,177.3 $ 2,170.1 $ 2,162.8 $ 2,155.6 these instruments are not leveraged and are held for purposes other than trading. the modeling technique used measures the changes in fair value arising from selected potential changes in interest rates. market changes reflect immediate hypothetical parallel shifts in the yield curve of plus or minus 50 basis points, or bps, 100 bps, and 150 bps, which are representative of the historical movements in the federal funds rate. foreign currency risk and foreign exchange forward contracts periodically, we use derivatives to hedge against fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. we do not enter into derivatives for speculative or trading purposes. we use foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate variability in gains and losses generated from the re-measurement of certain monetary assets and liabilities denominated in non-functional currencies. these derivatives are carried at fair value with changes recorded in other (expense) income, net in our consolidated statements of operations in the same period as the changes in the fair value from the re-measurement of the underlying assets and liabilities. these foreign exchange contracts have maturities of eighteen months or less. our sales and costs of product revenues are primarily denominated in u.s. dollars. our cost of service revenue and operating expenses are denominated in u.s. dollars as well as other foreign currencies including the british pound, the euro, the indian rupee, and the japanese yen. approximately 73% of such costs and operating expenses are denominated in u.s. dollars. periodically, we use foreign currency forward and/or option contracts to hedge certain forecasted foreign currency transactions to reduce variability in cost of service revenue and operating expenses caused by non-u.s. dollar denominated operating expense and costs. in designing a specific hedging approach, we consider several factors, including offsetting exposures, significance of exposures, costs associated with entering into a particular hedge instrument, and potential effectiveness of the hedge. these derivatives are designated as cash flow hedges and have maturities of eighteen months or less. the effective portion of the derivative's gain or loss is initially reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss and, upon occurrence of the forecasted transaction, is subsequently reclassified into the line item in the consolidated statements of operations to which the hedged transaction relates. we record the ineffectiveness of the hedging instruments, which was immaterial during the year ended december 31, 2016 in other (expense) income, net on our consolidated statements of operations. the change in operating expenses including cost of service revenue, research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses, due to foreign currency fluctuations was a reduction to operating expenses of 1.1% for the year ended december 31, 2016 . 60 table of contents we have performed a sensitivity analysis as of december 31, 2016 , using a modeling technique that measures the change in the amount of non-u.s. dollar cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities arising from a hypothetical 10% movement in the levels of foreign currency exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar, with all other variables held constant. the foreign currency exchange rates we used were based on market rates in effect on december 31, 2016 . the sensitivity analysis indicated that a hypothetical 10% movement in foreign currency exchange rates would change the amount of cash, cash equivalents, and investments we would report in u.s. dollars as of december 31, 2016 by less than 1%. equity price risk our portfolio of publicly-traded equity securities and our non-qualified deferred compensation ( nqdc ) plan, which may also hold publicly-traded equity securities, are inherently exposed to equity price risk as the stock market fluctuates. we do not purchase our publicly-traded equity securities, classified as available-for-sale securities on our consolidated balance sheets, for speculative purposes. as of december 31, 2016 , our portfolio of publicly-traded equity securities had an estimated fair value of $4.6 million . a hypothetical 30% adverse change in the stock prices of our publicly traded equity securities would have no significant impact to the fair value of these investments. investments under the nqdc plan are considered trading securities and are also reported at fair value on our consolidated balance sheets. as of december 31, 2016 , the total investments under our nqdc plan were $21.0 million . a hypothetical 30% adverse change on the total investments under our nqdc plan would have no significant impact to the fair value of these investments. we have also invested in privately-held companies. depending on the nature of these investments, some can be carried at cost and others can be carried at fair value. impairment charges on our investments in privately-held companies were $11.2 million for the year ended december 31, 2016 . the aggregate cost of our investments in privately-held companies was $62.7 million as of december 31, 2016 . the privately-held companies in which we invest can still be considered in the startup or development stages. these investments are inherently risky because the markets for the technologies or products these companies are developing are typically in the early stages and may never materialize. we could lose our entire investment in these companies. our evaluation of investments in privately-held companies is based on the fundamentals of the businesses invested in, including, among other factors, the nature of their technologies and potential for financial return. 61 table of contentsrisk factors 16 risk factors factors that may affect future results investments in our securities involve significant risks. even small changes in investor expectations for our future growth and earnings, whether as a result of actual or rumored financial or operating results, changes in the mix of the products and services sold, acquisitions, industry changes, or other factors, could trigger, and have triggered in the past, significant fluctuations in the market price of our common stock. investors in our securities should carefully consider all of the relevant factors disclosed by us, including, but not limited to, the following factors, that could affect our business, operating results and stock price. our quarterly results are unpredictable and subject to substantial fluctuations; as a result, we may fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. our revenues and operating results may vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control and any of which may cause our stock price to fluctuate. the factors that may cause our quarterly results to vary quarter by quarter and be unpredictable include, but are not limited to: limited visibility into customer spending plans; changes in customer mix; changes in the mix of products and services sold; changes in the mix of geographies in which our products and services are sold; changing market and economic conditions; current and potential customer, partner and supplier consolidation and concentration; price and product competition; long sales, qualification and implementation cycles; unpredictable ordering patterns and reduced visibility into our customers' spending plans and associated revenue; how well we execute on our strategy and operating plans and the impact of changes in our business model that could result in significant restructuring charges; our ability to achieve targeted cost reductions; changes in tax laws or accounting rules, or interpretations thereof; changes in the amount and frequency of share repurchases or dividends; regional economic and political conditions; and seasonality. for example, we, and many companies in our industry, experience adverse seasonal fluctuations in customer spending, particularly in the first quarter. in addition, while we may have backlog orders for products that have not shipped, we believe that our backlog may not be a reliable indicator of future operating results for a number of reasons, including project delays, changes in project scope and the fact that our customers may cancel purchase orders or change delivery schedules without significant penalty. furthermore, market trends, competitive pressures, commoditization of products, rebates and discounting, increased component or logistics costs, issues with product quality, regulatory impacts and other factors may result in reductions in revenue or pressure on gross margins in a given period, which may necessitate adjustments to our operations. such adjustments may be difficult or impossible to execute in the short or medium term. as a result of these factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of operating results are not necessarily a good indication of what our future performance will be. in the past, our operating results have been below our guidance, our long-term financial model or the expectations of securities analysts or investors, and this may happen in the future, in which case the price of our common stock may decline and has declined in the past. such a decline could also occur, and has occurred in the past, even when we have met our publicly stated revenues and/or earnings guidance. 16 table of contents we expect our gross margins and operating margins to vary over time, and the level of gross margins and operating margins we have achieved in recent years may not be sustainable. we expect our product and service gross margins to vary, both in the near-term and in the long-term, and the gross margins we have achieved in recent years may not be sustainable and may be adversely affected in the future by numerous factors, some of which have occurred and may occur in the future, including customer, vertical, product and geographic mix shifts, an increase or decrease in our software sales or services we provide, increased price competition in one or more of the markets in which we compete, changes in the actions of our competitors or their pricing strategies, which may be difficult to predict and respond to, modifications to our pricing strategy in order to gain footprint in certain markets or with certain customers, currency fluctuations that impact our costs or the cost of our products and services to our customers, increases in material, labor, logistics, warranty costs, or inventory carrying costs, excess product component or obsolescence charges from our contract manufacturers, issues with manufacturing or component quality or efficiencies, increased costs due to changes in component pricing or charges incurred due to inaccurately forecasting product demand, warranty related issues, or our introduction of new products and enhancements or entry into new markets with different pricing and cost structures. for example, in fiscal year 2017, our margins decreased as compared to fiscal year 2016, primarily due to lower product net revenues and product mix, resulting from the year-over-year decline in routing revenues, our customers' architectural shifts, and higher costs of certain memory components. in fiscal year 2016, our margins decreased compared to fiscal year 2015, primarily due to elevated pricing pressure and product mix. in fiscal year 2015, our margins increased compared to fiscal year 2014, as a result of higher restructuring and other charges recorded in 2014 but not in 2015, in connection with the restructuring plan we initiated in the first quarter of 2014. failure to sustain or improve our gross margins reduces our profitability and may have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. further, we will continue to remain diligent in our long-term financial objective to increase revenue and operating margins and manage our operating expenses as a percentage of revenue. we expect that our margins will vary with our ability to achieve these goals. we can provide no assurance that we will be able to achieve all or any of the goals of these plans or meet our announced expectations, in whole or in part, or that our plans will have the intended effect of improving our margins on the expected timeline, or at all. a limited number of our customers comprise a material portion of our revenues and any changes in the way they purchase products and services from us could affect our business. in addition, there is an ongoing trend toward consolidation in the industry in which our customers and partners operate. any decrease in revenues from our customers or partners could have an adverse effect on our net revenues and operating results. a material portion of our net revenues depend on sales to a limited number of customers and distribution partners, particularly in our telecom/cable and cloud verticals. changes in the business requirements or focus, vendor selection, project prioritization, financial prospects, capital resources, and expenditures, or purchasing behavior (including product mix purchased or delays in deployment) of our key customers could significantly decrease our sales to such customers or could lead to delays or cancellations of planned purchases of our products or services, which increases the risk of quarterly fluctuations in our revenues and operating results. any of these factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition, in recent years, there has been movement towards consolidation in the telecommunications industry (for example, centurylink, inc.'s acquisition of level 3 communications, inc., and vodafone india's proposed acquisition of idea cellular ltd.) and that consolidation trend has continued. certain telecommunications companies have also announced their intent towards vertical consolidation through acquisitions of media and content companies, such as verizon's acquisition of yahoo and at&amp;t's proposed acquisition of time warner. if our customers or partners are parties to consolidation transactions they may delay, suspend or indefinitely reduce or cancel their purchases of our products or other direct or indirect unforeseen consequences could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 17 table of contents we sell our products to customers that use those products to build networks and ip infrastructure, and if the demand for network and ip systems does not continue to grow, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. a substantial portion of our business and revenues depends on the growth of secure ip infrastructure and on the deployment of our products by customers that depend on the continued growth of ip services. as a result of changes in the economy, capital spending or the building of network capacity in excess of demand, all of which have in the past particularly affected telecommunications service providers, spending on ip infrastructure can vary, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition, a number of our existing customers are evaluating the build-out of their next generation networks. during the decision-making period when our customers are determining the design of those networks and the selection of the software and equipment they will use in those networks, such customers may greatly reduce or suspend their spending on secure ip infrastructure. for example, in the second half of 2017, our switching and routing results were adversely affected by spending delays from our largest cloud customers, who we believe are in the process of implementing a networking architectural shift. the duration of the delay is difficult to predict, in part because each cloud customer will migrate their network architecture based on their own constraints. such delays in purchases can make it more difficult to predict revenues from customers, can cause fluctuations in the level of spending by customers and, even where our products are ultimately selected, can have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. fluctuating economic conditions make it difficult to predict revenues and gross margin for a particular period and a shortfall in revenues or increase in costs of production may harm our operating results. our revenues and gross margin depend significantly on general economic conditions and the demand for products in the markets in which we compete. economic weakness or uncertainty, customer financial difficulties, and constrained spending on network expansion and enterprise infrastructure have in the past resulted in, and may in the future result in, decreased revenues and earnings. such factors could make it difficult to accurately forecast revenues and operating results and could negatively affect our ability to provide accurate forecasts to our contract manufacturers and manage our contract manufacturer relationships and other expenses. in addition, economic instability or uncertainty, as well as continued turmoil in the geopolitical environment in many parts of the world, have, and may continue to, put pressure on economic conditions, which has led and could lead, to reduced demand for our products, to delays or reductions in network expansions or infrastructure projects, and/or higher costs of production. more generally-speaking, economic weakness may also lead to longer collection cycles for payments due from our customers, an increase in customer bad debt, restructuring initiatives and associated expenses, and impairment of investments. furthermore, instability in the global markets may adversely impact the ability of our customers to adequately fund their expected expenditures, which could lead to delays or cancellations of planned purchases of our products or services. our operating expenses are largely based on anticipated revenue trends and a high percentage of our expenses is, and will continue to be, fixed in the short and medium term. therefore, fluctuations in revenue and gross margins could cause significant variations in our operating results and operating margins from quarter to quarter. uncertainty about future economic conditions also makes it difficult to forecast operating results and to make decisions about future investments. future or continued economic weakness, failure of our customers and markets to recover from such weakness, customer financial difficulties, increases in costs of production, and reductions in spending on network maintenance and expansion could result in price concessions in certain markets or have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and consequently on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our success depends upon our ability to effectively plan and manage our resources and restructure our business through rapidly fluctuating economic and market conditions, and such actions may have an adverse effect on our financial and operating results. our ability to successfully offer our products and services in a rapidly evolving market requires an effective planning, forecasting, and management process to enable us to effectively scale and adjust our business and business models in response to fluctuating market opportunities and conditions. from time to time, we have increased investment in our business by, for example, increasing headcount, acquiring companies, and increasing our investment in r&amp;d, sales and marketing, and other parts of our business. conversely, in february 2017 we initiated the 2017 restructuring plan to realign our workforce and increase operational efficiencies. this included workforce reductions and contract terminations. as we assessed the performance of our operating results against our long-term operating goals and evaluated potential opportunities for improvement, the 2017 restructuring plan was expanded and additional restructuring charges were incurred in the fourth quarter of 2017 to further align our workforce. some of our expenses are fixed costs that cannot be rapidly or easily adjusted in response to fluctuations in our business or numbers of employees. rapid changes in the size, alignment or organization of our workforce, including sales account coverage, could adversely affect our ability to develop and deliver products and services as planned or impair our ability to realize our current or future business and financial objectives. our ability to achieve the anticipated cost savings and other benefits from our restructuring initiatives within the 18 table of contents expected time frame is subject to many estimates and assumptions. these estimates and assumptions are subject to significant economic, competitive and other uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. if these estimates and assumptions are incorrect, if we are unsuccessful at implementing changes, or if other unforeseen events occur, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. we face intense competition that could reduce our revenues and adversely affect our business and financial results. competition is intense in the markets that we serve. the routing and switching markets have historically been dominated by cisco, with competition coming from other companies such as nokia corporation (following its acquisition of alcatel-lucent), arista, hpe, and huawei. in the security market, we face intense competition from cisco and palo alto networks, as well as companies such as check point, f5 networks, and fortinet. further, a number of other small public and private companies have products or have announced plans for new products to address the same challenges and markets that our products address. in addition, actual or speculated consolidation among competitors, or the acquisition by, or of, our partners and/or resellers by competitors can increase the competitive pressures faced by us as customers may delay spending decisions or not purchase our products at all. for example, in recent years, nokia corporation merged with alcatel-lucent, hpe acquired aruba networks, cisco acquired appdynamics, symantec corporation acquired blue coat systems, and dell acquired emc, which further consolidated our market. a number of our competitors have substantially greater resources and can offer a wider range of products and services for the overall network equipment market than we do. in addition, some of our competitors have become more integrated, including through consolidation, and offer a broader range of products and services, which could make their solutions more attractive to our customers. many of our competitors sell networking products as bundled solutions with other it products, such as computer and storage systems. if we are unable to compete successfully against existing and future competitors on the basis of product offerings or price, we could experience a loss in market share and revenues and/or be required to reduce prices, which could reduce our gross margins, and which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our partners and resellers generally sell or resell competing products on a non-exclusive basis and consolidation could delay spending or require us to increase discounts to compete, which could also adversely affect our business. the long sales and implementation cycles for our products, as well as our expectation that some customers will sporadically place large orders with short lead times, may cause our revenues and operating results to vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter. a customer's decision to purchase certain of our products, particularly new products, involves a significant commitment of its resources and a lengthy evaluation and product qualification process. as a result, the sales cycle may be lengthy. in particular, customers making critical decisions regarding the design and implementation of large network deployments may engage in very lengthy procurement processes that may delay or impact expected future orders. throughout the sales cycle, we may spend considerable time educating and providing information to prospective customers regarding the use and benefits of our products. even after making the decision to purchase, customers may deploy our products slowly and deliberately. timing of deployment can vary widely and depends on the skill set of the customer, the size of the network deployment, the complexity of the customer's network environment, and the degree of hardware and operating system configuration necessary to deploy the products. customers with large networks usually expand their networks in large increments on a periodic basis. accordingly, we may receive purchase orders for significant dollar amounts on an irregular basis. these long cycles, as well as our expectation that customers will tend to sporadically place large orders with short lead times, both of which may be exacerbated by the impact of global economic weakness, may cause revenues and operating results to vary significantly and unexpectedly from quarter-to-quarter. the timing of product orders and/or our reliance on revenue from sales of software or subscriptions and professional, support and maintenance services may cause us to recognize revenue in a different period than the one in which a transaction takes place. this may make it difficult for investors to observe quarterly trends and may cause significant variations in our operating results and operating margin on a quarterly basis. generally, our network equipment products are stocked only in limited quantities by our distributors and resellers due to the cost, complexity and custom nature of configurations required by our customers; we generally build such products as orders are received. the volume of orders received late in any given fiscal quarter remains unpredictable. if orders for certain products are received late in any quarter, we may not be able to recognize revenue for these orders in the same period, which could adversely affect our ability to meet our expected revenues for such quarter. in addition, services revenue accounts for a significant portion of our revenue, comprising 31% , 29% , and 27% of total revenue in fiscal year 2017, 2016, and 2015, respectively. sales of new or renewal professional services, support and maintenance contracts may decline and/or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including end-customers' level of satisfaction with our products and services, the prices of our products and services or those offered by our competitors, and reductions in our end-customers' 19 table of contents spending levels. we recognize professional services, support and maintenance revenue periodically over the term of the relevant service period. the introduction of new software products and services is part of our intended strategy to expand our software business, and certain software revenues may be recognized periodically over the term of the relevant use period or subscription period. as a result, certain software, subscription and support and maintenance revenue we report each fiscal quarter is the recognition of deferred revenue from contracts entered into during previous fiscal quarters. consequently, a decline in such new or renewed contracts in any one fiscal quarter will not be fully or immediately reflected in revenue in that fiscal quarter but will negatively affect our revenue in future fiscal quarters. accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in new or renewed sales of our software, subscriptions or support and maintenance is not reflected in full in our operating results until future periods. also, it is difficult for us to rapidly increase such software or services revenue through additional sales in any period, as revenue from those software, subscription and support and maintenance contracts must be recognized over the applicable period. additionally, we determine our operating expenses largely on the basis of anticipated revenues and technology roadmap and a high percentage of our expenses are fixed in the short and medium term. as a result, a failure or delay in generating or recognizing revenue could cause significant variations in our operating results and operating margin from quarter-to-quarter. if we do not successfully anticipate technological shifts, market needs and opportunities, and develop products, product enhancements and business strategies that meet those technological shifts, needs and opportunities, or if those products are not made available or strategies are not executed in a timely manner or do not gain market acceptance, we may not be able to compete effectively and our ability to generate revenues will suffer. the markets for our products are characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions, changes in customer requirements, continuous pricing pressures and a constantly evolving industry. we may not be able to anticipate future technological shifts, market needs and opportunities or be able to develop new products, product enhancements or business strategies to meet such technological shifts, needs or opportunities in a timely manner or at all. for example, the move from traditional wide area network, or wan, infrastructures towards software-defined wan, or sd-wan, has been receiving considerable attention. in our view, it will take several years to see the full impact of sd-wan, and we believe the successful products and solutions in this market will combine hardware and software elements. if we fail to anticipate market requirements or opportunities or fail to develop and introduce new products, product enhancements or business strategies to meet those requirements or opportunities in a timely manner, it could cause us to lose customers, and such failure could substantially decrease or delay market acceptance and sales of our present and future products and services, which would significantly harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition, if we invest time, energy and resources in developing products for a market that doesn't develop, it could likewise significantly harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. even if we are able to anticipate, develop, and commercially introduce new products, enhancements or business strategies, there can be no assurance that new products, enhancements or business strategies will achieve widespread market acceptance. in the recent years, we have announced a number of new products and enhancements to our hardware and software products across routing, switching and security. the success of our new products depends on several factors, including, but not limited to, component costs, timely completion and introduction of these products, prompt resolution of any defects or bugs in these products, our ability to support these products, differentiation of new products from those of our competitors and market acceptance of these products. the introduction of new software products is part of our intended strategy to expand our software business. we have also begun to disaggregate certain software from certain hardware products, such that customers would be able to purchase or license our hardware and software products independently, which we expect could in time enable our hardware to be deployed with third party networking applications and services and our software to be used with third party hardware. the success of our strategy to expand our software business, including our strategy to disaggregate software from certain hardware products, is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including: the additional development efforts and costs required to create new software products and/or to make our disaggregated products compatible with multiple technologies; the possibility that our new software products or disaggregated products may not achieve widespread customer adoption; the potential that our strategy could erode our revenue and gross margins; the impact on our financial results of longer periods of revenue recognition and changes in tax treatment associated with software sales; 20 table of contents the additional costs associated with regulatory compliance and changes we need to make to our distribution chain in connection with increased software sales; the ability of our disaggregated hardware and software products to operate independently and/or to integrate with current and future third party products; and issues with third party technologies used with our disaggregated products may be attributed to us. if any of our new products or business strategies do not gain market acceptance or meet our expectations for growth, our ability to meet future financial targets may be adversely affected and our competitive position and our business and financial results could be harmed. we are dependent on contract manufacturers with whom we do not have long-term supply contracts, and changes to or disruptions in those relationships or manufacturing processes, expected or unexpected, may result in delays that could cause us to lose revenues and damage our customer relationships. we depend on independent contract manufacturers (each of which is a third-party manufacturer for numerous companies) to manufacture our products. although we have contracts with our contract manufacturers, these contracts do not require them to manufacture our products on a long-term basis in any specific quantity or at any specific price. in addition, it is time-consuming and costly to qualify and implement additional contract manufacturer relationships. therefore, if we fail to effectively manage our contract manufacturer relationships, which includes failing to provide accurate forecasts of our requirements, or if one or more of them experiences delays, disruptions, or quality control problems in our manufacturing operations, or if we had to change or add additional contract manufacturers or contract manufacturing sites, our ability to ship products to our customers could be delayed. we have experienced in the past and may experience in the future an increase in the expected time required to manufacture our products or ship products. such delays could result in supply shortfalls that damage our ability to meet customer demand for those products and could cause our customers to purchase alternative products from our competitors. also, the addition of manufacturing locations or contract manufacturers or the introduction of new products by us would increase the complexity of our supply chain management. moreover, an increasing portion of our manufacturing is performed in china and other foreign countries and is therefore subject to risks associated with doing business outside of the united states, including the possibility of import tariffs or regional conflicts. each of these factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we fail to accurately predict our manufacturing requirements, we could incur additional costs or experience manufacturing delays, which would harm our business. we provide demand forecasts for our products to our contract manufacturers and original design manufacturers, who order components and plan capacity based on these forecasts. if we overestimate our requirements, our original design or contract manufacturers may assess charges, or we may have liabilities for excess inventory, each of which could negatively affect our gross margins. for example, in certain prior quarters, our gross margins were reduced as a result of an inventory charge resulting from inventory we held in excess of forecasted demand. in addition, some optical modules we use are experiencing faster product transitions than our other products, which increases the risk that we could have excess inventory of those modules. conversely, because lead times for required materials and components vary significantly and depend on factors such as the specific supplier, contract terms, and the demand for each component at a given time, and because our contract manufacturers are third-party manufacturers for numerous other companies, if we underestimate our requirements, as we have in certain prior quarters with respect to certain products, our contract manufacturers may have inadequate time, materials, and/or components required to produce our products, which could increase costs or delay or interrupt manufacturing of our products resulting in delays in shipments and deferral or loss of revenues and negatively impacting customer satisfaction. system security risks, data protection breaches, and cyber-attacks could compromise our and our customers' proprietary information, disrupt our internal operations and harm public perception of our products, which could cause our business and reputation to suffer and adversely affect our stock price. in the ordinary course of business, we store sensitive data, including intellectual property, personal data, our proprietary business information and that of our customers, suppliers and business partners on our networks. in addition, we store sensitive data through cloud-based services that may be hosted by third parties and in data center infrastructure maintained by third parties. the secure maintenance of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy. the growing cyber risk environment means that individuals, companies, and organizations of all sizes, including juniper have been and are increasingly subject to the threat of intrusions on their networks and systems by a wide range of actors on an ongoing and regular basis. despite our security measures, and those of our third-party vendors, our information technology and infrastructure has experienced breaches and may 21 table of contents be vulnerable in the future to breach or attacks by computer programmers, hackers or sophisticated nation-state and nation-state supported actors or breached due to employee error or wrongful conduct, malfeasance, or other disruptions. if any breach or attack compromises our networks, creates system disruptions or slowdowns or exploits security vulnerabilities of our products, the information stored on our networks or those of our customers could be accessed and modified, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen, and we may be subject to liability to our customers, suppliers, business partners and others, and suffer reputational and financial harm. in addition, hardware, components and operating system software and applications that we produce or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including "bugs", vulnerabilities and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of our networks or expose us or our products to cyber attacks. this can be true even for legacy products that have been determined to have reached an end of life engineering status but will continue to operate for a limited amount of time. when vulnerabilities are discovered, we evaluate the risk, apply patches or take other remediation actions as required and notify customers and suppliers when appropriate. all of this requires significant time and attention from management and our employees. as a result of any actual or perceived breach of network security that occurs in our network or in the network of a customer of our products, regardless of whether the breach is attributable to our products, the market perception of the effectiveness of our products and our overall reputation could be harmed. as a large, well known provider of networking products, cyber attackers may specifically target our products or attempt to imitate us or our products in order to compromise a network. because the techniques used by attackers, many of whom are highly sophisticated and well-funded, to access or sabotage networks change frequently and generally are not recognized until after they are used, we may be unable to anticipate or immediately detect these techniques or the vulnerabilities they have caused. this could impede our sales, manufacturing, distribution or other critical functions, which could have an adverse impact on our financial results. the economic costs to us to eliminate or alleviate cyber or other security problems, bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software systems and security vulnerabilities could be significant and may be difficult to anticipate or measure, because the damage may differ based on the identity and motive of the attacker, which are often difficult to pinpoint. additionally, we could be subject to regulatory investigations, potential fines and litigation in connection with a security breach or related issue and be liable to third parties for these types of breaches. we are dependent on sole source and limited source suppliers for several key components, which makes us susceptible to shortages, quality issues or price fluctuations in our supply chain, and we may face increased challenges in supply chain management in the future. we rely on single or limited sources of certain of our components. during periods of high demand for electronic products, component shortages are possible, and the predictability of the availability of such components may be limited. for example, some optical transceivers and memory components used in our networking solutions might experience extended lead times and higher pricing, given the demand in the market. any future spike in growth in our business, or more likely in it spending and the economy in general is likely to create greater short-term pressures on us and our suppliers to accurately forecast overall component demand and to establish optimal component inventories. if shortages or delays persist, the price of these components may increase, or the components may not be available at all. we may not be able to secure enough components at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build new products in a timely manner, and our revenues and gross margins could suffer until other sources can be developed. in addition, we have experienced, and from time-to-time may experience, component shortages or quality issues that resulted, or could result, in delays of product shipments and/or warranty or other claims. for example, in late 2016, we became aware of a defect in a clock-signal component from a third-party supplier that affected certain of our products and which resulted in remediation costs. as a result of this issue, we recorded a product cost of revenue charge that impacted our product gross margins for our fiscal year ended december 31, 2016 and three months ended march 31, 2017, and we may incur additional costs. we also currently purchase numerous key components, including asics and other semiconductor chips, from single or limited sources and many of our component suppliers are concentrated in china and korea. in addition, there has been consolidation among certain suppliers of our components. for example, globalfoundries acquired ibm's semiconductor manufacturing business, avago technologies limited acquired broadcom corporation, intel corporation acquired altera corporation and broadcom limited is proposing to acquire qualcomm incorporated. consolidation among suppliers can result in the reduction of the number of independent suppliers of components available to us, which could negatively impact our ability to access certain component parts or the prices we have to pay for such parts. in addition, our suppliers may determine not to continue a business relationship with us for other reasons that may be beyond our control. any disruptions to our supply chain could decrease our sales, earnings and liquidity or otherwise adversely affect our business and result in increased costs. such a disruption could occur as a result of any number of events, including, but not limited to, increases in wages that drive up prices, the imposition of regulations, quotas or embargoes on key components, labor stoppages, transportation failures affecting the supply and shipment of materials and finished goods, the unavailability of raw materials, severe weather conditions, natural disasters, civil unrest, military conflicts, geopolitical developments, war or terrorism and disruptions in utility and other services. 22 table of contents the development of alternate sources for key components is time-consuming, difficult, and costly. in addition, the lead times associated with certain components are lengthy and preclude rapid changes in quantities and delivery schedules. also, long-term supply and maintenance obligations to customers increase the duration for which specific components are required, which may further increase the risk of component shortages or the cost of carrying inventory. in the event of a component shortage or supply interruption from these suppliers, we may not be able to develop alternate or second sources in a timely manner. if we are unable to buy these components in quantities sufficient to meet our requirements on a timely basis, we will not be able to deliver products and services to our customers, which would seriously affect present and future sales, which would, in turn, adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition, the development, licensing, or acquisition of new products in the future may increase the complexity of supply chain management. failure to effectively manage the supply of key components and products would adversely affect our business. we rely on value-added and other resellers, as well as distribution partners, to sell our products, and disruptions to, or our failure to effectively develop and manage, our distribution channel and the processes and procedures that support it could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues from the sale of our products. our future success is highly dependent upon establishing and maintaining successful relationships with a variety of value-added and other reseller and distribution partners, including our worldwide strategic partners such as ericsson, ibm, dimension data and nec corporation. the majority of our revenues are derived through value-added resellers and distributors, most of which also sell our competitors' products, and some of which sell their own competing products. our revenues depend in part on the performance of these partners. the loss of or reduction in sales to our resellers or distributors could materially reduce our revenues. for example, in 2016, nokia corporation merged with alcatel-lucent, a competitor of ours, and in 2015 cisco announced a partnership with ericsson, which is one of our existing partners. our competitors may in some cases be effective in leveraging their market share positions or in providing incentives to current or potential resellers and distributors to favor their products or to prevent or reduce sales of our products. if we fail to develop and maintain relationships with our partners, fail to develop new relationships with value-added resellers and distributors in new markets, fail to expand the number of distributors and resellers in existing markets, fail to manage, train or motivate existing value-added resellers and distributors effectively, determine that we cannot continue to do business with these partners for any reason or if these partners are not successful in their sales efforts, sales of our products may decrease, and our business, financial condition, and results of operations would suffer. in addition, we recognize a portion of our revenues based on a sell-through model using information provided by our distributors. if those distributors provide us with inaccurate or untimely information, the amount or timing of our revenues could be adversely impacted. we are also vulnerable to third parties who illegally distribute or sell counterfeit, stolen or unfit versions of our products, which has happened in the past and could happen in the future. such sales could have a negative impact on our reputation and business. further, in order to develop and expand our distribution channel, we must continue to offer attractive channel programs to potential partners and scale and improve our processes and procedures that support the channel. as a result, our programs, processes and procedures may become increasingly complex and inherently difficult to manage. we have previously entered into oem agreements with partners pursuant to which they rebrand and resell our products as part of their product portfolios. these types of relationships are complex and require additional processes and procedures that may be challenging and costly to implement, maintain and manage. our failure to successfully manage and develop our distribution channel and the programs, processes and procedures that support it could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues from the sale of our products. we also depend on our global channel partners to comply with applicable legal and regulatory requirements. to the extent that they fail to do so, that could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. our ability to process orders and ship products in a timely manner is dependent in part on our business systems and performance of the systems and processes of third parties such as our contract manufacturers, suppliers, data center providers or other partners, as well as the interfaces between our systems and the systems of such third parties. if our systems, the systems and processes of those third parties, or the interfaces between them experience delays or fail, our business processes and our ability to build and ship products could be impacted, and our financial results could be harmed. some of our business processes depend upon our information technology, or it, systems, the systems and processes of third parties, and the interfaces of our systems with the systems of third parties. for example, we are in the process of further consolidating our on-site data centers to the cloud and to off-site facilities that are hosted and controlled by third-parties. these cloud providers and off-site facilities are vulnerable to damage, interruption or performance problems from earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures, equipment failure, adverse events caused by operator error and similar events. in addition, 23 table of contents because we lease our cloud storage space and off-site data center facilities, we cannot be assured that we will be able to expand our data center infrastructure to meet user demand in a timely manner, or on favorable economic terms. if we have issues receiving and processing data, this may delay our ability to provide products and services to our customers and damage our business. we also rely upon the performance of the systems and processes of our contract manufacturers to build and ship our products. if those systems and processes experience interruption or delay, our ability to build and ship our products in a timely manner may be harmed. for example, we have experienced instances where our contract manufacturers were not able to ship products in the time periods expected by us, which prevented us from meeting our commitments to our customers. if we are not able to ship our products or if product shipments are delayed, our ability to recognize revenue in a timely manner for those products would be affected and our financial results could be harmed. integration of acquisitions could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition and stock price and may dilute the ownership of our stockholders. we have made, and may continue to make, acquisitions in order to enhance our business. for example, in 2017 we acquired cyphort inc. and in 2016, we acquired appformix inc., aurrion, inc. and bti systems inc. acquisitions involve numerous risks, including, but not limited to, problems combining the purchased operations, technologies or products, unanticipated costs and liabilities, diversion of management's attention from our core businesses, adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers, risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience, and potential loss of key employees. there can be no assurance that we will be able to integrate successfully any businesses, products, technologies, or personnel that we might acquire. the integration of businesses that we may acquire is likely to be a complex, time-consuming, and expensive process and we may not realize the anticipated revenues or other benefits associated with our acquisitions if we fail to successfully manage and operate the acquired business. if we fail in any acquisition integration efforts and are unable to efficiently operate as a combined organization utilizing common information and communication systems, operating procedures, financial controls, and human resources practices, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected. in connection with certain acquisitions, we may agree to issue common stock or assume equity awards that dilute the ownership of our current stockholders, use a substantial portion of our cash resources, assume liabilities, record goodwill and amortizable intangible assets that will be subject to impairment testing on a regular basis and potential periodic impairment charges, incur amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets, and incur large and immediate write-offs and restructuring and other related expenses, all of which could harm our financial condition and results of operations. telecommunications, cable and cloud service provider companies and our other large customers generally require onerous terms and conditions in our contracts with them. as we seek to sell more products to such customers, we may be required to agree to terms and conditions that could have an adverse effect on our business or ability to recognize revenues. telecommunications, cable and cloud service provider companies, which comprise a significant portion of our customer base, and other large companies, generally have greater purchasing power than smaller entities and, accordingly, often request and receive more favorable terms from suppliers. for example, our customers france telecom-orange and deutsche telekom ag have formed a company for the purpose of purchasing products from, and negotiating more favorable contractual terms with, suppliers. as we seek to sell more products to this class of customer, we may be required to agree to such terms and conditions, which may include terms that affect the timing of our ability to recognize revenue, increase our costs and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. consolidation among such large customers can further increase their buying power and ability to require onerous terms. in addition, service providers have purchased products from other vendors who promised but failed to deliver certain functionality and/or had products that caused problems or outages in the networks of these customers. as a result, these customers may request additional features from us and require substantial penalties for failure to deliver such features or may require substantial penalties for any network outages that may be caused by our products. these additional requests and penalties, if we are required to agree to them, may require us to defer revenue recognition from such sales, which may negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, increased patent litigation brought against customers by non-practicing entities in recent years, may result, and in some cases has resulted, in customers requesting or requiring vendors to absorb a portion of the costs of such litigation or providing broader indemnification for litigation, each of which could increase our expenses and negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 24 table of contents we are a party to lawsuits, investigations, proceedings, and other disputes, which are costly to defend and, if determined adversely to us, could require us to pay fines or damages, undertake remedial measures or prevent us from taking certain actions, any or all of which could harm our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. we, and certain of our current and former officers and current and former members of our board of directors, have been or are subject to various lawsuits. we have been served with lawsuits related to employment matters, commercial transactions and patent infringement, as well as securities laws. as noted in note 16, commitments and contingencies , in notes to consolidated financial statements of this report, under the heading of legal proceedings , the u.s. securities and exchange commission, or the sec, is conducting, and the u.s. department of justice, or the doj, was previously conducting, investigations into possible violations by the company of the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, or the fcpa, in a number of countries. the investigations relate to certain of the company's marketing practices and whether the company or any third party on behalf of the company gave anything of value to any government official in violation of the fcpa. the company's audit committee, with the assistance of independent advisors, has been investigating and conducting a thorough review of possible violations of the fcpa, and has made recommendations for remedial measures, including employee disciplinary actions in foreign jurisdictions, which the company has implemented and continues to implement. litigation and investigations are inherently uncertain. we therefore cannot predict the duration, scope, outcome or consequences of litigation and government investigations. in connection with any government investigations, including those in which we are currently involved as described above, if the government takes action against us or we agree to settle the matter, we may be required to pay substantial fines and incur other sanctions, which may be material, and suffer reputational harm. the lawsuits and investigations are expensive and time-consuming to defend, settle, and/or resolve, and may require us to implement certain remedial measures that could prove costly or disruptive to our business and operations. the unfavorable resolution of one or more of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. we are a party to litigation and claims regarding intellectual property rights, resolution of which may be time-consuming and expensive, as well as require a significant amount of resources to prosecute, defend, or make our products non-infringing. our industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent claims and related litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. we expect that infringement claims may increase as the number of products and competitors in our market increases and overlaps occur. third parties have asserted and may in the future assert claims or initiate litigation related to patent, copyright, trademark, and other intellectual property rights to technologies and related standards that are relevant to our products. the asserted claims and/or initiated litigation may include claims against us or our manufacturers, suppliers, partners, or customers, alleging that our products or services infringe proprietary rights. in addition, increased patent litigation brought by non-practicing entities in recent years may result, and in some cases has resulted, in our customers requesting or requiring us to absorb a portion of the costs of such litigation or providing broader indemnification for litigation, each of which could increase our expenses and negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. regardless of the merit of these claims, they have been and can be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, and may require us to develop non-infringing technologies, enter into license agreements, or cease engaging in certain activities or offering certain products or services. furthermore, because of the potential for high awards of damages or injunctive relief that are not necessarily predictable, even arguably unmeritorious claims may be settled for significant amounts of money. if any infringement or other intellectual property claim made against us or anyone we are required to indemnify by any third-party is successful, if we are required to settle litigation for significant amounts of money, if we fail to develop non-infringing technology, if we incorporate infringing technology in our products or if we license required proprietary rights at material expense, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. regulation of our industry in general and the telecommunications industry in particular could harm our operating results and future prospects. we are subject to laws and regulations affecting the sale of our products in a number of areas. for example, some governments have regulations prohibiting government entities from purchasing security products that do not meet specified indigenous certification criteria, even though those criteria may be in conflict with accepted international standards. other regulations that may negatively impact our business include country of origin regulations. these types of regulations are in effect or under consideration in several jurisdictions where we do business. the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act includes disclosure requirements applicable to public companies regarding the use of conflict minerals mined from the democratic republic of congo and adjoining countries, which we refer to collectively as the drc, and procedures regarding a manufacturer's efforts to prevent the sourcing of such conflict minerals. these minerals are present in our products. in addition, the european union reached agreement in late 2016 on a eu-wide conflict minerals rule under which most eu importers of tin, tungsten, tantalum, gold and their ores will have to conduct due diligence to 25 table of contents ensure the minerals do not originate from conflict zones and do not fund armed conflicts. large manufacturers also will have to disclose how they plan to monitor their sources to comply with the rules. the regulation was adopted in 2017 with compliance required by 2021. in addition, environmental laws and regulations relevant to electronic equipment manufacturing or operations, including laws and regulations governing the hazardous material content of our products and laws relating to the collection of and recycling of electrical and electronic equipment, may adversely impact our business and financial condition. these laws and regulations include, among others, the european union, or eu, restriction on the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment directive, or rohs. the eu rohs and the similar laws of other jurisdictions limit the content of certain hazardous materials, such as lead, mercury, and cadmium, in electronic equipment, including our products. currently, our products comply with the eu rohs requirements. however, certain exemptions are scheduled to lapse, or have lapsed. the lapse of any exemption, further changes to this or other laws, or passage of similar laws in the eu or other jurisdictions, would require us to cease selling non-compliant products in the eu and to reengineer our products to use components compatible with these regulations. this reengineering and component substitution could result in additional costs to us, disrupt our operations or logistics, and result in an adverse impact on our operating results. in addition, in validating the compliance of our products with applicable hazardous materials restrictions, we rely substantially on affirmations by our component suppliers as to the compliance of their products with respect to those same restrictions. failure by our component suppliers to furnish accurate and timely information could subject us to penalties or liability for violation of such hazardous materials restrictions, interrupt our supply of products to the eu, and result in our customers refusing or being unable to purchase our products. additionally, the eu and a number of other countries have adopted regulations requiring producers of electrical and electronic equipment to assume certain responsibilities for collecting, treating, recycling and disposing of products when they have reached the end of their useful life. finally, the eu reach regulations regulate the handling of certain chemical substances that may be used in our products. in addition, as a contractor and subcontractor to u.s. government departments and agencies, we are subject to federal regulations pertaining to our it systems. for instance, as a subcontractor to the u.s. department of defense, or dod, the defense federal acquisition regulation supplement (dfars) required that our it systems comply with the security and privacy controls described in national institute of standards and technology special publication 800-171, or nist sp 800-171 no later than december 31, 2017. the dfars also requires that we flow the security control requirement down to certain of our own subcontractors. failure to comply with these requirements could result in a loss of federal government business, subject us to claims or other remedies for non-compliance and negatively impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations. the telecommunications industry is highly regulated, and our business and financial condition could be adversely affected by changes in regulations relating to the internet telecommunications industry. currently, there are few laws or regulations that apply directly to access to or commerce on ip networks, but future regulations could include sales taxes on products sold via the internet and internet service provider access charges. we could be adversely affected by regulation of ip networks and commerce in any country where we market equipment and services to service providers or cloud provider companies. regulations governing the range of services and business models that can be offered by service providers or cloud provider companies could adversely affect those customers' needs for products. for instance, in december 2017, the u.s. federal communications commission repealed its 2015 regulations governing aspects of fixed broadband networks and wireless networks. this change in regulatory treatment of networks might impact service provider and cloud provider business models and, as such, providers' needs for internet telecommunications equipment and services. also, many jurisdictions are evaluating or implementing regulations relating to cyber security, supply chain integrity, privacy and data protection, any of which can affect the market and requirements for networking and security equipment. the adoption and implementation of additional regulations could reduce demand for our products, increase the cost of building and selling our products, result in product inventory write-offs, impact our ability to ship products into affected areas and recognize revenue in a timely manner, require us to spend significant time and expense to comply, and subject us to fines and civil or criminal sanctions or claims if we were to violate or become liable under such regulations. any of these impacts could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 26 table of contents governmental regulations and economic sanctions affecting the import or export of products generally or affecting products containing encryption capabilities could negatively affect our revenues and operating results. the united states and various foreign governments have imposed controls and restrictions on the import or export of, among other things, products that contain or use encryption technology. most of our products contain or use encryption technology and, consequently, are subject to such controls, requirements and restrictions. certain governments also control importation and in-country use of encryption items and technology. the scope, nature and severity of such controls vary widely across different countries and may change frequently over time. for example, china has promulgated cybersecurity regulations and published a new draft export law affecting networking products that may impair our ability to profitably market and sell our products in china. certain countries' encryption control regimes may significantly limit our ability to sell major lines of our products in those countries. certain governments also impose special local content, certification, testing, source code review, escrow and governmental recovery of private encryption keys, or feature requirements on network equipment for purposes of government procurements. similar requirements may also be imposed in procurements by state owned entities ( soe's ). our ability to sell into substantial government and soe markets (whether or not the products we sell include encryption) is vulnerable to changes in applicable government procurement regulations, any associated local content requirements and changes in the government's interpretation of such regulations. in addition, the u.s. government has broader sanctions and embargoes that generally forbid supply of most items to or involving certain countries, territories, governments, legal entities and individuals, including restrictions imposed by the u.s. and eu on exports to russia and ukraine. we have implemented systems to detect and prevent sales into these countries or to prohibited entities or individuals, but there can be no assurance that they will always be effective. governmental regulation of encryption or ip networking technology and regulation of imports or exports, or our failure to obtain required import or export approval for our products, or related economic sanctions could harm our international and domestic sales and adversely affect our revenues and operating results. in addition, failure to comply with such regulations could result in harm to our reputation and ability to compete in international markets, penalties, costs, seizure of assets (including source code) and restrictions on import or export privileges or adversely affect sales to government agencies or government-funded projects. our actual or perceived failure to adequately protect personal data could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. a variety of state, national, foreign, and international laws and regulations apply to the collection, use, retention, protection, disclosure, transfer, and other processing of personal data. these privacy- and data protection-related laws and regulations are evolving, with new or modified laws and regulations proposed and implemented frequently and existing laws and regulations subject to new or different interpretations. compliance with these laws and regulations can be costly and can delay or impede the development and offering of new products and services. for example, we previously relied upon adherence to the u.s. department of commerce's safe harbor privacy principles and compliance with the u.s.-eu safe harbor framework, which we refer to as the safe harbor, agreed to by the u.s. department of commerce and the eu. the safe harbor, which established means for legitimizing the transfer of personal data by u.s. companies from the european economic area, or eea, to the u.s., was invalidated in 2015 by a decision of the european court of justice, or the ecj. now that the eu and u.s. have implemented a successor privacy framework called the privacy shield, we are reviewing and documenting our practices required to obtain certification under the privacy shield, in addition to entering into eu model contracts with our vendors where appropriate and feasible in anticipation of the possibility that either the privacy shield or eu model contracts may be legally challenged or voided like safe harbor in an uncertain political environment. in addition, the eu general data protection regulation, which goes into full effect in may 2018, is expected to result in substantial changes to our compliance obligations, including contractual requirements for data transfers outside the eea, and a significant increase in potential administrative fines for non-compliance. similarly, the june 2016 approval by voters in the united kingdom, or u.k., of a referendum to leave the eu could require us to make additional changes to the way we conduct our business and transmit data between the u.s., u.k., eu and the rest of the world. our actual or alleged failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations, or to protect personal data, could result in enforcement actions, significant penalties or other legal action against us or our customers or suppliers, which could result in negative publicity, increase our operating costs, subject us to claims or other remedies and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 27 table of contents our ability to develop, market, and sell products could be harmed if we are unable to retain or hire key personnel. our future success depends upon our ability to recruit and retain the services of executive, engineering, sales and marketing, and support personnel. the supply of highly qualified individuals, in particular engineers in very specialized technical areas, or sales people with specialized industry expertise, is limited and competition for such individuals is intense. none of our officers or key employees is bound by an employment agreement for any specific term. the loss of the services of any of our key employees, the inability to attract or retain personnel in the future or delays in hiring required personnel, engineers and sales people, and the complexity and time involved in replacing or training new employees, could delay the development and introduction of new products, and negatively impact our ability to market, sell, or support our products. a number of our team members are foreign nationals who rely on visas and entry permits in order to legally work in the united states and other countries. in recent years, the united states has increased the level of scrutiny in granting h-1(b), l-1 and other business visas. in addition, the current u.s. administration has indicated that immigration reform is a priority. compliance with united states immigration and labor laws could require us to incur additional unexpected labor costs and expenses or could restrain our ability to retain skilled professionals. any of these restrictions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial conditions. our financial condition and results of operations could suffer if there is an impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets with indefinite lives. we are required to test intangible assets with indefinite lives, including goodwill, annually or more frequently if certain circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit and intangible assets below their carrying values. as of december 31, 2017 , our goodwill was $3,096.2 million and intangible assets with indefinite lives was $49.0 million . when the carrying value of a reporting unit's goodwill exceeds its implied fair value of goodwill, or if the carrying amount of an intangible asset with an indefinite life exceeds its fair value, a charge to operations is recorded. either event would result in incremental expenses for that quarter, which would reduce any earnings or increase any loss for the period in which the impairment was determined to have occurred. in the past, we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $850.0 million due to the underperformance of our security reporting unit and product rationalizations. from time to time, economic weakness has contributed to extreme price and volume fluctuations in global stock markets that have reduced the market price of many technology company stocks, including ours. declines in our level of revenues or declines in our operating margins, or sustained declines in our stock price, increase the risk that goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives may become impaired in future periods. during the three months ended june 30, 2017, we concluded that there were sufficient indicators to require us to perform an interim goodwill impairment analysis on our security reporting unit. based on our analysis, we determined that our security reporting unit's goodwill was not impaired. however, our goodwill impairment analysis is sensitive to changes in key assumptions used in our analysis, such as expected future cash flows, the degree of volatility in equity and debt markets, and our stock price. if the assumptions used in our analysis are not realized, it is possible that an impairment charge may need to be recorded in the future. we cannot accurately predict the amount and timing of any impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets. however, any such impairment would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. changes in effective tax rates or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income or other tax returns could adversely affect our results. our future effective tax rates could be subject to volatility or adversely affected by the following: earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated earnings in countries where we have higher statutory rates; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; expiration of, or lapses in, the r&amp;d tax credit laws applicable to us; transfer pricing adjustments related to certain acquisitions, including the license of acquired intangibles under our intercompany r&amp;d cost sharing arrangement; costs related to intercompany restructuring; tax effects of share-based compensation; challenges to our methodologies for valuing developed technology or intercompany arrangements; limitations on the deductibility of net interest expense; or changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles, or interpretations thereof. the tax cuts and jobs act of 2017 (the tax act ), which was signed into law on december 22, 2017, makes significant changes to the taxation of u.s. business entities that will have a meaningful impact to our provision for income taxes. these changes include a reduction to the federal corporate income tax rate, the current taxation of certain foreign earnings, the imposition of base-erosion prevention measures which may limit the deduction of certain transfer pricing payments, and possible limitations on the deductibility of net interest expense or corporate debt obligations. accounting for the income tax effects of the tax act requires significant 28 table of contents judgements and estimates that are based on current interpretations of the tax act and could be affected by changing interpretations of the act, as well as additional legislation and guidance around the act. any refinements to these provisional estimates are difficult to predict and could impact our results. furthermore, on october 5, 2015, the organisation for economic co-operation and development, or oecd, an international association of 35 countries including the u.s., published final proposals under its base erosion and profit shifting, or beps, action plan. the beps action plan includes fifteen actions to address beps in a comprehensive manner and represents a significant change to the international corporate tax landscape. these proposals, as adopted by countries, may increase tax uncertainty and adversely affect our provision for income taxes. in addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the internal revenue service, or irs, and other tax authorities. it is possible that tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and any adverse outcome of such a review or audit could have a negative effect on our financial position and operating results. we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes, but the determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires significant judgment by management, and there are transactions where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. although we believe that our estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our consolidated financial statements and may materially affect our financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made. there can be no assurance that the outcomes from continuous examinations will not have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we may face difficulties enforcing our proprietary rights, which could adversely affect our ability to compete. we generally rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secret laws and contractual restrictions on disclosure of confidential and proprietary information, to establish and maintain proprietary rights in our technology and products. although we have been issued numerous patents and other patent applications are currently pending, there can be no assurance that any of our patent applications will result in issued patents or that any of our patents or other proprietary rights will not be challenged, invalidated, infringed or circumvented or that our rights will, in fact, provide competitive advantages to us or protect our technology, any of which could result in costly product redesign efforts, discontinuance of certain product offerings and other competitive harm. in addition, despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. we generally enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants, vendors, and customers, and generally limit access to and distribution of our proprietary information. however, we cannot assure you that we have entered into such agreements with all parties who may have or have had access to our confidential information or that the agreements we have entered into will not be breached. we cannot guarantee that any of the measures we have taken will prevent misappropriation of our technology. furthermore, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. the outcome of any actions taken in these foreign countries may be different than if such actions were determined under the laws of the united states. although we are not dependent on any individual patents or group of patents for particular segments of the business for which we compete, if we are unable to protect our proprietary rights in a market, we may find ourselves at a competitive disadvantage to others who need not incur the substantial expense, time, and effort required to create innovative products that have enabled our success. we are subject to risks arising from our international operations, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we derive a substantial portion of our revenues from our international operations, and we plan to continue expanding our business in international markets. we conduct significant sales and customer support operations directly and indirectly through our distributors and vars in countries throughout the world and depend on the operations of our contract manufacturers and suppliers that are located outside of the united states. in addition, a portion of our r&amp;d and our general and administrative operations are conducted outside the united states. in some countries, we may experience reduced intellectual property protection. as a result of our international operations, we are affected by economic, business regulatory, social, and political conditions in foreign countries, including the following: changes in general it spending, the imposition of government controls, inclusive of critical infrastructure protection; 29 table of contents changes or limitations in trade protection laws or other regulatory requirements, which may affect our ability to import or export our products from various countries; laws that restrict sales of products developed or manufactured outside of the country; varying and potentially conflicting laws and regulations; fluctuations in local economies; wage inflation or a tightening of the labor market; tax policies that could have a business impact; potential import tariffs imposed by the united states and the possibility of reciprocal tariffs by foreign countries; data privacy rules and other regulations that affect cross border data flow; and the impact of the following on customer spending patterns: political considerations, unfavorable changes in tax treaties or laws, natural disasters, epidemic disease, labor unrest, earnings expatriation restrictions, misappropriation of intellectual property, military actions, acts of terrorism, political and social unrest and difficulties in staffing and managing international operations. any or all of these factors could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition, the june 2016 approval by voters in the u.k. of a referendum to leave the eu and the u.k.'s formal initiation of the exit process in march 2017, commonly referred to as brexit, has caused, and may continue to cause, uncertainty in the global markets. the u.k.'s exit from the eu, if implemented, will take some period of time to complete and could result in regulatory changes that impact our business. for example, changes to the way service providers conduct business and transmit data between the u.k. and the eu could require us to make changes to the way we handle customer data. we will also review the impact of any resulting changes to eu or u.k. law that could affect our operations, such as labor policies, financial planning, product manufacturing, and product distribution. political and regulatory responses to the vote are still developing and we are in the process of assessing the impact the vote may have on our business as more information becomes available. nevertheless, because we conduct business in the eu, including the u.k., any of the effects of brexit, including those we cannot anticipate, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. moreover, local laws and customs in many countries differ significantly from or conflict with those in the united states or in other countries in which we operate. in many foreign countries, it is common for others to engage in business practices that are prohibited by our internal policies and procedures or u.s. regulations applicable to us. there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, channel partners, and agents will not take actions in violation of our policies and procedures, which are designed to ensure compliance with u.s. and foreign laws and policies. violations of laws or key control policies by our employees, contractors, channel partners, or agents could result in termination of our relationship, financial reporting problems, fines, and/or penalties for us, or prohibition on the importation or exportation of our products, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our products are highly technical and if they contain undetected defects, errors or malware or do not meet customer quality expectations, our business could be adversely affected, and we may be subject to additional costs or lawsuits or be required to pay damages in connection with any alleged or actual failure of our products and services. our products are highly technical and complex, are critical to the operation of many networks, and, in the case of our security products, provide and monitor network security and may protect valuable information. our products have contained and may contain one or more undetected errors, defects, malware, or security vulnerabilities. these errors may arise from hardware or software we produce or procure from third parties. some errors in our products may only be discovered after a product has been installed and used by end-customers. for example, in december 2015, we disclosed that we identified unauthorized code in screenos that could allow a knowledgeable attacker to gain administrative access to netscreen devices and to decrypt vpn connections. any errors, defects, malware or security vulnerabilities discovered in our products after commercial release could result in monetary penalties, negative publicity, loss of revenues or delay in revenue recognition, loss of customers, loss of future business and 30 table of contents reputation, penalties, and increased service and warranty cost, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition, in the event an error, defect, malware, or vulnerability is attributable to a component supplied by a third-party vendor, we may not be able to recover from the vendor all of the costs of remediation that we may incur. in addition, we could face claims for product liability, tort, or breach of warranty or indemnification. defending a lawsuit, regardless of its merit, is costly and may divert management's attention. if our business liability insurance coverage is inadequate, or future coverage is unavailable on acceptable terms or at all, our financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. moreover, if our products fail to satisfy our customers' quality expectations for whatever reason, the perception of and the demand for our products could be adversely affected. we are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. because a substantial portion of our business is conducted outside the united states, we face exposure to adverse movements in non-u.s. currency exchange rates. these exposures may change over time as business practices evolve and could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. the majority of our revenues and expenses are transacted in u.s. dollars. we also have some transactions that are denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the british pound, chinese yuan, euro, and indian rupee related to our sales and service operations outside of the united states. an increase in the value of the u.s. dollar could increase the real cost to our customers of our products in those markets outside the united states in which we sell in u.s. dollars. this could negatively affect our ability to meet our customers' pricing expectations in those markets and may result in erosion of gross margin and market share. a weakened u.s. dollar could increase the cost of local operating expenses and procurement of raw materials to the extent we must purchase components in foreign currencies. currently, we hedge currency exposures associated with certain assets and liabilities denominated in nonfunctional currencies and periodically hedge anticipated foreign currency cash flows, with the aim of offsetting the impact of currency fluctuations on these exposures. however, hedge activities can be costly, and hedging cannot fully offset all risks, including long-term declines or appreciation in the value of the u.s. dollar. if our attempts to hedge against these risks are not successful, or if long-term declines or appreciation in the value of the u.s. dollar persist, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted. a portion of the transaction consideration we received from the divestiture of our junos pulse product portfolio is in the form of a non-contingent seller promissory note and we may not receive the amount owed to us (including accrued interest), including in the time frame contemplated, by the buyer under the note. in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2014, we completed the sale of our junos pulse product portfolio to an affiliate of siris capital, a private equity firm, for total consideration of $230.7 million, of which $125.0 million was in the form of an 18-month non-contingent interest-bearing promissory note issued to the company. on october 2, 2015, we and the issuer of the promissory note agreed to modify the original terms of the note to extend the maturity date from april 1, 2016 to december 31, 2018. on may 1, 2017, we received a principal payment in the amount of $75.0 million and outstanding interest on the note and we and the issuer agreed to further amend the terms of the note with respect to the remaining approximately $58.0 million to, among other things, extend the maturity date from december 31, 2018 to september 30, 2022, provide that interest due can be paid in kind by increasing the outstanding principal amount of the note and subordinate the note to other debt issued by senior lenders. since a portion of the transaction consideration is in the form of a non-contingent seller promissory note and the note is subordinated to debt issued by senior lenders, there is the risk that we may not receive the amount owed to us (including accrued interest), including in the time frame contemplated, under the note. in the event that the promissory note is not repaid on the terms we contemplate, any collection or restructuring efforts we undertake may be costly and require significant time and attention from our management and there is no guarantee that we will be able to recover the amounts owed to us in full. if we fail to adequately evolve our financial and managerial control and reporting systems and processes, our ability to manage and grow our business will be negatively affected. our ability to successfully offer our products and implement our business plan in a rapidly evolving market depends upon an effective planning and management process. we will need to continue to improve our financial and managerial control and our reporting systems and procedures in order to manage our business effectively in the future. if we fail to effectively improve our systems and processes or we fail to monitor and ensure that these systems and processes are being used correctly, our ability to manage our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be negatively affected. 31 table of contents if our products do not interoperate with our customers' networks, installations will be delayed or cancelled and could harm our business. our products are designed to interface with our customers' existing networks, each of which have different specifications and utilize multiple protocol standards and products from other vendors. many of our customers' networks contain multiple generations of products that have been added over time as these networks have grown and evolved. our products must interoperate with many or all of the products within these networks as well as future products in order to meet our customers' requirements. if we find errors in the existing software or defects in the hardware used in our customers' networks, we may need to modify our software or hardware to fix or overcome these errors so that our products will interoperate and scale with the existing software and hardware, which could be costly and could negatively affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition, if our products do not interoperate with those of our customers' networks, demand for our products could be adversely affected or orders for our products could be cancelled. this could hurt our operating results, damage our reputation, and seriously harm our business and prospects. our products incorporate and rely upon licensed third-party technology, and if licenses of third-party technology do not continue to be available to us or are not available on terms acceptable to us, our revenues and ability to develop and introduce new products could be adversely affected. we integrate licensed third-party technology into certain of our products. from time to time, we may be required to renegotiate our current third party licenses or license additional technology from third-parties to develop new products or product enhancements or to facilitate new business models. third-party licenses may not be available or continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms. the failure to comply with the terms of any license, including free open source software, may result in our inability to continue to use such license. some of our agreements with our licensors may be terminated for convenience by them. in addition, we cannot be certain that our licensors are not infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties or that our licensors have sufficient rights to the licensed intellectual property in all jurisdictions in which we may sell our products. third party technology we incorporate into our products that is deemed to infringe on the intellectual property of others may result, and in some cases has resulted, in limitations on our ability to source technology from those third parties, restrictions on our ability to sell products that incorporate the infringing technology, increased exposure to liability that we will be held responsible for incorporating the infringing technology in our products and increased costs involved in removing that technology from our products or developing substitute technology. our inability to maintain or re-license any third-party licenses required in our products or our inability to obtain third-party licenses necessary to develop new products and product enhancements, could require us, if possible, to develop substitute technology or obtain substitute technology of lower quality or performance standards or at a greater cost, any of which could delay or prevent product shipment and harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we are required to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and publicly disclose material weaknesses in our controls. any adverse results from such evaluation may adversely affect investor perception, and our stock price. section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 requires our management to assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and to disclose in our filing if such controls were unable to provide assurance that a material error would be prevented or detected in a timely manner. we have an ongoing program to review the design of our internal controls framework in keeping with changes in business needs, implement necessary changes to our controls design and test the system and process controls necessary to comply with these requirements. if in the future, our internal controls over financial reporting are determined to be not effective resulting in a material weakness or significant deficiency, investor perceptions regarding the reliability of our financial statements may be adversely affected which could cause a decline in the market price of our stock and otherwise negatively affect our liquidity and financial condition. failure to maintain our credit ratings could adversely affect our cost of funds and related margins, liquidity, competitive position and access to capital markets. the major credit rating agencies routinely evaluate our indebtedness. this evaluation is based on a number of factors, which include financial strength as well as transparency with rating agencies and timeliness of financial reporting. there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our credit ratings and failure to do so could adversely affect our cost of funds and related margins, liquidity, competitive position and access to capital markets. 32 table of contents we may be unable to generate the cash flow to satisfy our expenses, make anticipated capital expenditures or service our debt obligations, including the notes and the revolving credit facility. as of december 31, 2017 , we have issued $2,150.0 million in aggregate principal amount of senior notes, which we refer to collectively as the notes, and had $2,136.3 million in outstanding long-term debt (see discussion in note 10, debt and financing , in the notes to consolidated financial statements of this report). in june 2014, we entered into a credit agreement with certain institutional lenders that provides for a five year $500.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility, which we refer to as the revolving credit facility, with an option to increase the revolving credit facility by up to an additional $200.0 million . the credit agreement will terminate in june 2019, at which point all amounts borrowed must be repaid. as of december 31, 2017 , no amounts were outstanding under the credit agreement. we may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to enable us to satisfy our expenses, make anticipated capital expenditures or service our indebtedness, including the notes and the revolving credit facility (if drawn upon). our ability to pay our expenses, satisfy our debt obligations, refinance our debt obligations and fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. based upon current levels of operations, we believe cash flow from operations and available cash will be adequate for at least the next twelve months to meet our anticipated requirements for working capital, capital expenditures and scheduled payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness, including the notes and the revolving credit facility (if drawn upon). however, if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or to borrow sufficient funds in the future to service our debt, we may be required to sell assets, reduce capital expenditures, refinance all or a portion of our existing debt (including the notes) or obtain additional financing. there is no assurance that we will be able to refinance our debt, sell assets or borrow more money on terms acceptable to us, or at all. the indentures that govern the notes contain various covenants that limit our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to, among other things: incur liens; incur sale and leaseback transactions; and consolidate or merge with or into, or sell substantially all of our assets to, another person. the credit agreement contains two financial covenants along with customary affirmative and negative covenants that include the following: maintenance of a leverage ratio no greater than 3.0x and an interest coverage ratio no less than 3.0x covenants that limit or restrict the ability of the company and its subsidiaries to, among other things, grant liens, merge or consolidate, dispose of all or substantially all of its assets, change their accounting or reporting policies, change their business and incur subsidiary indebtedness, in each case subject to customary exceptions for a credit facility of this size and type. as a result of these covenants, we are limited in the manner in which we can conduct our business, and we may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or capital needs. accordingly, these restrictions may limit our ability to successfully operate our business. a failure to comply with these restrictions could lead to an event of default, which could result in an acceleration of the indebtedness. our future operating results may not be sufficient to enable compliance with these covenants to remedy any such default. in addition, in the event of an acceleration, we may not have or be able to obtain sufficient funds to make any accelerated payments, including those under the notes, and the revolving credit facility (if drawn upon). in addition, certain changes under the tax act may result in limitations on the deductibility of our net business interest expenses. beginning in 2018, the tax act generally limits the annual deduction for net business interest expense to an amount equal to 30% of adjusted taxable income. as a result, if our taxable income were to decline, we may not be able to fully deduct our net interest expense. these changes, among others under the tax act, could result in increases to our future u.s. tax expenses, which could have a material impact on our business. 33 table of contents our failure to pay quarterly dividends to our stockholders or the failure to meet our commitments to return capital to our stockholders could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. our ability to pay quarterly dividends or achieve our intended capital return policy will be subject to, among other things, our financial position and results of operations, available cash and cash flow, capital and debt service requirements, use of cash for acquisitions and other factors. any failure to pay or increase future dividends as announced, or a reduction or discontinuation of quarterly dividends could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. we announced that, beginning in 2017, we intend to target a capital return policy, inclusive of share repurchases and dividends, of approximately 50% of annual free cash flow. free cash flow is calculated as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures. in january 2018, we announced that our board of directors approved a new $2 billion buyback authorization, which replaced our prior authorization. in february 2018, as a part of our new buyback authorization, we entered into a $750 million accelerated share repurchase program. in addition, our board of directors declared an increase to our quarterly cash dividend to $0.18 per share, which reflects an increase of 80% compared to previous quarterly dividends. any failure to meet our commitments to return capital to our stockholders could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. the investment of our cash balance and our investments in government and corporate debt securities are subject to risks, which may cause losses and affect the liquidity of these investments. at december 31, 2017 , we had $2,006.5 million in cash and cash equivalents and $2,014.5 million in short- and long-term investments. we have invested these amounts primarily in asset-backed securities, certificates of deposit, commercial paper, corporate debt securities, foreign government debt securities, money market funds, mutual funds, publicly-traded equity securities, time deposits, u.s. government agency securities, and u.s. government securities. certain of these investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market, sovereign debt, and interest rate risks. our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates or if the decline in fair value of our publicly traded debt or equity investments is judged to be other-than-temporary. these market risks associated with our investment portfolio may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations. our amended and restated bylaws provide that the court of chancery of the state of delaware will be the sole and exclusive forum for substantially all disputes between us and our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers, or employees. our amended and restated bylaws provide that, unless we consent to the selection of an alternative forum, the court of chancery of the state of delaware (or if the court of chancery does not have jurisdiction, the u.s. district court for the district of delaware) is the sole and exclusive forum for (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf; (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of fiduciary duty owed by any of our current or former directors, officers, or other employees to us or to our stockholders; (iii) any action asserting a claim arising pursuant to the delaware general corporation law, our restated certificate of incorporation, or our bylaws; (iv) any action or proceeding asserting a claim as to which delaware general corporation law confers jurisdiction on the court of chancery or (v) any action asserting a claim governed by the internal affairs doctrine. the exclusive forum provisions in our bylaws may limit a stockholder's ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our current or former directors, officers, or other employees, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our current or former directors, officers, and other employees. alternatively, if a court were to find the exclusive forum provisions contained in our bylaws to be inapplicable or unenforceable in an action, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such action in other jurisdictions, which could have a material and adverse impact on our business. 34 table of contents uninsured losses could harm our operating results. we self-insure against many business risks and expenses, such as intellectual property litigation and our medical benefit programs, where we believe we can adequately self-insure against the anticipated exposure and risk or where insurance is either not deemed cost-effective or is not available. we also maintain a program of insurance coverage for various types of property, casualty, and other risks. we place our insurance coverage with various carriers in numerous jurisdictions. the types and amounts of insurance that we obtain vary from time to time and from location to location, depending on availability, cost, and our decisions with respect to risk retention. the policies are subject to deductibles, policy limits, and exclusions that result in our retention of a level of risk on a self-insurance basis. in addition, our insurance coverage may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses or failures that may occur. losses not covered by insurance could be substantial and unpredictable and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. our stock price may be volatile. historically, our common stock has experienced substantial price volatility, particularly as a result of variations between our actual financial results and the published expectations of analysts and as a result of announcements by our competitors and us. furthermore, speculation in the press or investment community about our strategic position, financial condition, results of operations, business, security of our products, or significant transactions can cause changes in our stock price. in addition, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many technology companies in particular and that have often been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. these factors, as well as general economic and political conditions and the announcement of proposed and completed acquisitions or other significant transactions, or any difficulties associated with such transactions, by us or our current or potential competitors, may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock in the future. 35 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 59 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk the primary objectives of our investment activities are, in order of priority, to preserve principal, maintain liquidity, and maximize yield. the value of our investments is subject to market price volatility. to minimize this risk, we maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities, which includes asset-backed securities, certificates of deposit, commercial paper, corporate debt securities, foreign government debt securities, money market funds, mutual funds, time deposits, u.s. government agency securities, and u.s. government securities. at any time, a rise in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our investment portfolio. conversely, a decline in interest rates could have a material impact on interest income from our investment portfolio. we do not currently hedge these interest rate exposures. the following tables present hypothetical changes in fair value of our available-for-sale fixed income securities held as of december 31, 2017 and 2016 that are sensitive to changes in interest rates assuming immediate parallel shifts in the yield curve of 50 basis points, or bps, 100 bps and 150 bps, which are representative of the historical movements in the federal funds rate (in millions): - 150 bps - 100 bps - 50 bps fair value as of december 31, 2017 + 50 bps + 100 bps + 150 bps available-for-sale fixed income securities $ 2,387.8 $ 2,380.4 $ 2,372.9 $ 2,365.5 $ 2,358.0 $ 2,350.6 $ 2,343.2 - 150 bps - 100 bps - 50 bps fair value as of december 31, 2016 + 50 bps + 100 bps + 150 bps available-for-sale fixed income securities $ 2,199.0 $ 2,191.8 $ 2,184.5 $ 2,177.3 $ 2,170.1 $ 2,162.8 $ 2,155.6 foreign currency risk and foreign exchange forward contracts periodically, we use derivatives to hedge against fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. we do not enter into derivatives for speculative or trading purposes. we use foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate variability in gains and losses generated from the re-measurement of certain monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies. these foreign exchange forward contracts typically have maturities of approximately one month. our sales and costs of product revenues are primarily denominated in u.s. dollars. our cost of service revenue and operating expenses are denominated in u.s. dollars as well as other foreign currencies including the british pound, chinese yuan, euro, and the indian rupee. approximately 73% of such costs and operating expenses are denominated in u.s. dollars. periodically, we use foreign currency forward and/or option contracts to hedge certain forecasted foreign currency transactions to reduce variability in cost of service revenue and operating expenses caused by non-u.s. dollar denominated operating expense and costs. in designing a specific hedging approach, we consider several factors, including offsetting exposures, significance of exposures, costs associated with entering into a particular hedge instrument, and potential effectiveness of the hedge. these derivatives are designated as cash flow hedges and have maturities of eighteen months or less. the change in operating expenses including cost of service revenue, research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses, due to foreign currency fluctuations was a reduction to operating expenses of 0.1% and 1.1% for the year ended december 31, 2017 and december 31, 2016 , respectively. see note 5, derivative instruments , in notes to consolidated financial statements in item 8 of part ii of this report for further discussion of our derivative and hedging activity. we have performed a sensitivity analysis as of december 31, 2017 and as of december 31, 2016 , using a modeling technique that measures the change in the amount of non-u.s. dollar cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities arising from a hypothetical 10% movement in the levels of foreign currency exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar, with all other variables held constant. the foreign currency exchange rates we used were based on market rates in effect on december 31, 2017 and december 31, 2016 , respectively. the sensitivity analysis indicated that a hypothetical 10% movement in foreign currency exchange rates would change the amount of cash, cash equivalents, and investments we would report in u.s. dollars as of december 31, 2017 and december 31, 2016 by less than 1%, respectively. 59 table of contents equity price risk our non-qualified deferred compensation, or nqdc, plan, which may hold publicly-traded equity securities, are inherently exposed to equity price risk as the stock market fluctuates. as of december 31, 2017 and december 31, 2016 , the total investments under our nqdc plan were $27.6 million and $21.0 million , respectively. a hypothetical 30% adverse change on the total investments under our nqdc plan would not have a material impact to the fair value of these investments, respectively. we have also invested in privately-held companies. depending on the nature of these investments, some can be carried at cost and others can be carried at fair value. the carrying values of our investments in privately-held companies were $83.0 million and $61.3 million as of december 31, 2017 and december 31, 2016 , respectively. the privately-held companies in which we invest can still be considered in the startup or development stages. these investments are inherently risky because the markets for the technologies or products these companies are developing are typically in the early stages and may never materialize. we could lose our entire investment in these companies. our evaluation of investments in privately-held companies is based on the fundamentals of the businesses invested in, including, among other factors, the nature of their technologies and potential for financial return. 60 table of contentsrisk factors 16 risk factors factors that may affect future results investments in our securities involve significant risks. even small changes in investor expectations for our future growth and earnings, whether as a result of actual or rumored financial or operating results, changes in the mix of the products and services sold, acquisitions, industry changes, or other factors, could trigger, and have triggered in the past, significant fluctuations in the market price of our common stock. investors in our securities should carefully consider all of the relevant factors disclosed by us, including, but not limited to, the following factors, that could affect our business, operating results, and stock price. our quarterly results are unpredictable and subject to substantial fluctuations; as a result, we may fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. our revenues and operating results may vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control and any of which may cause our stock price to fluctuate. the factors that may cause our quarterly results to vary quarter by quarter and be unpredictable include, but are not limited to: unpredictable ordering patterns and limited or reduced visibility into our customers' spending plans and associated revenue; changes in customer mix; changes in the demand for our products and services; changes in the mix of products and services sold; changes in the mix of geographies in which our products and services are sold; changing market and economic conditions; current and potential customer, partner and supplier consolidation and concentration; price and product competition; long sales, qualification and implementation cycles; success in new and evolving markets and emerging technologies; how well we execute on our strategy and operating plans and the impact of changes in our business model that could result in significant restructuring charges; ability of our customers, channel partners, contract manufacturers and suppliers to purchase, market, sell, manufacture or supply our products (or components of our products) and services; financial stability of our customers, including the solvency of private sector customers and statutory authority for government customers to purchase goods and services; our ability to achieve targeted cost reductions; changes in tax laws or accounting rules, or interpretations thereof; changes in the amount and frequency of share repurchases or dividends; regional economic and political conditions; and seasonality. for example, we, and many companies in our industry, experience adverse seasonal fluctuations in customer spending, particularly in the first quarter. in addition, while we may have backlog orders for products that have not shipped, we believe that our backlog may not be a reliable indicator of future operating results for a number of reasons, including project delays, changes in project scope and the fact that our customers may cancel purchase orders or change delivery schedules without significant penalty. furthermore, market trends, competitive pressures, commoditization of products, rebates and discounting, increased component or logistics costs, issues with product quality, regulatory impacts and other factors may result in reductions in revenue or pressure on gross margins in a given period, which may necessitate adjustments to our operations. such adjustments may be difficult or impossible to execute in the short or medium term. as a result of the factors described above, as well as other variables affecting our operating results, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of operating results are not necessarily a good indication of what our future performance will be. in the past, our operating results have been below our guidance, our long-term financial model or the expectations of securities analysts or investors, and this may happen in the future, in which case the price of our common stock may decline and has declined in the past. such a decline could also occur, and has occurred in the past, even when we have met our publicly stated revenues and/or earnings guidance. 16 table of contents we expect our gross margins and operating margins to vary over time. we expect our product and service gross margins to vary, both in the near-term and in the long-term, and may be adversely affected in the future by numerous factors, some of which have occurred and may occur in the future, including customer, vertical, product and geographic mix shifts, an increase or decrease in our software sales or services we provide, increased price competition in one or more of the markets in which we compete, changes in the actions of our competitors or their pricing strategies, which may be difficult to predict and respond to, modifications to our pricing strategy in order to gain footprint in certain markets or with certain customers, currency fluctuations that impact our costs or the cost of our products and services to our customers, increases in material, labor, logistics, warranty costs, or inventory carrying costs, excess product component or obsolescence charges from our contract manufacturers, issues with manufacturing or component availability, quality or efficiencies, increased costs due to changes in component pricing or charges incurred due to inaccurately forecasting product demand, warranty related issues, or our introduction of new products and enhancements or entry into new markets with different pricing and cost structures. for example, in fiscal year 2018, our margins decreased as compared to fiscal year 2017, primarily due to lower net revenues and product mix. in fiscal year 2017, our margins decreased as compared to fiscal year 2016, primarily due to lower product net revenues and product mix, resulting from the year-over-year decline in routing revenues, our customers' architectural shifts, and higher costs of certain memory components. in fiscal year 2016, our margins decreased compared to fiscal year 2015, primarily due to elevated pricing pressure and product mix. failure to sustain or improve our gross margins reduces our profitability and may have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. further, while we will continue to remain diligent in our long-term financial objective to increase revenue and operating margins and manage our operating expenses as a percentage of revenue. we expect that our margins will vary with our ability to achieve these goals. we can provide no assurance that we will be able to achieve all or any of the goals of these plans or meet our announced expectations, in whole or in part, or that our plans will have the intended effect of improving our margins on the expected timeline, or at all. a limited number of our customers comprise a material portion of our revenues and any changes in the way they purchase products and services from us could affect our business. in addition, there is an ongoing trend toward consolidation in the industry in which our customers and partners operate. any decrease in revenues from our customers or partners could have an adverse effect on our net revenues and operating results. a material portion of our net revenues, across each customer vertical, depends on sales to a limited number of customers and distribution partners. changes in the business requirements or focus, vendor selection, project prioritization, financial prospects, capital resources, and expenditures, or purchasing behavior (including product mix purchased or delays in deployment) of our key customers could significantly decrease our sales to such customers or could lead to delays or cancellations of planned purchases of our products or services, which increases the risk of quarterly fluctuations in our revenues and operating results. any of these factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition, in recent years, there has been movement towards consolidation in the telecommunications industry (for example, centurylink, inc.'s acquisition of level 3 communications, inc., vodafone india's acquisition of idea cellular ltd. and t-mobile us, inc.'s proposed acquisition of sprint corp.) and that consolidation trend has continued. certain telecommunications companies have also moved towards vertical consolidation through acquisitions of media and content companies, such as verizon's acquisition of yahoo, at&amp;t's acquisition of time warner, and comcast's acquisition of sky. if our customers or partners are parties to consolidation transactions they may delay, suspend or indefinitely reduce or cancel their purchases of our products or other direct or indirect unforeseen consequences could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. fluctuating economic conditions make it difficult to predict revenues and gross margin for a particular period and a shortfall in revenues or increase in costs of production may harm our operating results. our revenues and gross margin depend significantly on general economic conditions and the demand for products in the markets in which we compete. economic weakness or uncertainty, customer financial difficulties, and constrained spending on network expansion and enterprise infrastructure have in the past resulted in, and may in the future result in, decreased revenues and earnings. such factors could make it difficult to accurately forecast revenues and operating results and could negatively affect our ability to provide accurate forecasts to our contract manufacturers and manage our contract manufacturer relationships and other expenses. in addition, economic instability or uncertainty, as well as continued turmoil in the geopolitical environment in many parts of the world, have, and may continue to, put pressure on economic conditions, which has led and could lead, to reduced demand for our products, to delays or reductions in network expansions or infrastructure projects, and/or higher costs of production. more generally-speaking, economic weakness may also lead to longer collection cycles for payments due from our customers, an increase in customer bad debt, restructuring initiatives and associated expenses, and impairment of investments. furthermore, instability in the global markets may adversely impact the ability of our customers to adequately fund their expected expenditures, which could 17 table of contents lead to delays or cancellations of planned purchases of our products or services. our operating expenses are largely based on anticipated revenue trends and a high percentage of our expenses is, and will continue to be, fixed in the short and medium term. uncertainty about future economic conditions also makes it difficult to forecast operating results and to make decisions about future investments. future or continued economic weakness, failure of our customers and markets to recover from such weakness, customer financial difficulties, increases in costs of production, and reductions in spending on network maintenance and expansion could result in price concessions in certain markets or have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and consequently on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our success depends upon our ability to effectively plan and manage our resources and restructure our business through rapidly fluctuating economic and market conditions, and such actions may have an adverse effect on our financial and operating results. our ability to successfully offer our products and services in a rapidly evolving market requires an effective planning, forecasting, and management process to enable us to effectively scale and adjust our business and business models in response to fluctuating market opportunities and conditions. from time to time, we have increased investment in our business by, for example, increasing headcount, acquiring companies, and increasing our investment in r&amp;d, sales and marketing, and other parts of our business. conversely, in 2017, 2018, and 2019, we initiated restructuring plans to realign our workforce as a result of organizational and leadership changes, align our execution priorities, increase operational efficiencies, and to consolidate facilities which resulted in restructuring charges in each of these years. some of our expenses related to such efforts are fixed costs that cannot be rapidly or easily adjusted in response to fluctuations in our business or numbers of employees. rapid changes in the size, alignment or organization of our workforce, including sales account coverage, could adversely affect our ability to develop and deliver products and services as planned or impair our ability to realize our current or future business and financial objectives. our ability to achieve the anticipated cost savings and other benefits from our restructuring initiatives within the expected time frame is subject to many estimates and assumptions, which are subject to significant economic, competitive and other uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. if these estimates and assumptions are incorrect, if we are unsuccessful at implementing changes, or if other unforeseen events occur, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. we face intense competition that could reduce our revenues and adversely affect our business and financial results. competition is intense in the markets that we serve. the routing and switching markets have historically been dominated by cisco, with competition coming from other companies such as nokia corporation, arista, hpe, and huawei. in the security market, we face intense competition from cisco and palo alto networks, as well as companies such as check point, f5 networks, and fortinet. further, a number of other small public and private companies have products or have announced plans for new products to address the same challenges and markets that our products address. in addition, actual or speculated consolidation among competitors, or the acquisition by, or of, our partners and/or resellers by competitors can increase the competitive pressures faced by us as customers may delay spending decisions or not purchase our products at all. a number of our competitors have substantially greater resources and can offer a wider range of products and services for the overall network equipment market than we do. in addition, some of our competitors have become more integrated, including through consolidation and vertical integration, and offer a broader range of products and services, which could make their solutions more attractive to our customers. many of our competitors sell networking products as bundled solutions with other it products, such as compute and storage systems. if we are unable to compete successfully against existing and future competitors on the basis of product offerings or price, we could experience a loss in market share and revenues and/or be required to reduce prices, which could reduce our gross margins, and which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our partners and resellers generally sell or resell competing products on a non-exclusive basis and consolidation could delay spending or require us to increase discounts to compete, which could also adversely affect our business. the long sales and implementation cycles for our products, as well as our expectation that some customers will sporadically place large orders with short lead times, may cause our revenues and operating results to vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter. a customer's decision to purchase certain of our products, particularly new products, involves a significant commitment of its resources and a lengthy evaluation and product qualification process. as a result, the sales cycle may be lengthy. in particular, customers making critical decisions regarding the design and implementation of large network deployments may engage in very lengthy procurement processes that may delay or impact expected future orders. throughout the sales cycle, we may spend considerable time educating and providing information to prospective customers regarding the use and benefits of our products. even after making the decision to purchase, customers may deploy our products slowly and deliberately. timing of deployment 18 table of contents can vary widely and depends on the skill set of the customer, the size of the network deployment, the complexity of the customer's network environment, and the degree of hardware and operating system configuration necessary to deploy the products. customers with large networks usually expand their networks in large increments on a periodic basis. accordingly, we may receive purchase orders for significant dollar amounts on an irregular basis. these long cycles, as well as our expectation that customers will tend to sporadically place large orders with short lead times, both of which may be exacerbated by the impact of global economic weakness, may cause revenues and operating results to vary significantly and unexpectedly from quarter-to-quarter. the timing of product orders and/or our reliance on revenue from sales of certain software or subscriptions and professional, support and maintenance services may cause us to recognize revenue in a different period than the one in which a transaction takes place. due to the cost, complexity and custom nature of configurations required by our customers, we generally build our network equipment products as orders are received. the volume of orders received late in any given fiscal quarter remains unpredictable. if orders for certain products are received late in any quarter, we may not be able to recognize revenue for these orders in the same period, which could adversely affect our ability to meet our expected revenues for such quarter. in addition, services revenue accounts for a significant portion of our revenue, comprising 33% , 31% , and 29% of total revenue in fiscal year 2018, 2017, and 2016, respectively. sales of new or renewal professional services, support and maintenance contracts may decline and/or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including end-customers' level of satisfaction with our products and services, the prices of our products and services or those offered by our competitors, and reductions in our end-customers' spending levels. we recognize professional services, support and maintenance revenue periodically over the term of the relevant service period. the introduction of new software products and services is part of our intended strategy to expand our software business, and certain software revenues may be recognized periodically over the term of the relevant use period or subscription period. as a result, certain software, subscription and support and maintenance revenue we report each fiscal quarter is the recognition of deferred revenue from contracts entered into during previous fiscal quarters. consequently, a decline in such new or renewed contracts in any one fiscal quarter will not be fully or immediately reflected in revenue in that fiscal quarter but will negatively affect our revenue in future fiscal quarters. accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in new or renewed sales of certain software products, subscriptions or support and maintenance is not reflected in full in our operating results until future periods. also, it is difficult for us to rapidly increase such software or services revenue through additional sales in any period, as revenue from those software, subscription and support and maintenance contracts must be recognized over the applicable period. additionally, we determine our operating expenses largely on the basis of anticipated revenues and technology roadmap and a high percentage of our expenses are fixed in the short and medium term. as a result, a failure or delay in generating or recognizing revenue could cause significant variations in our operating results and operating margin from quarter-to-quarter. we sell our products to customers that use those products to build networks and ip infrastructure, and if the demand for network and ip systems does not continue to grow, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. a substantial portion of our business and revenues depends on the growth of secure ip infrastructure and customers that depend on the continued growth of ip services to deploy our products in their networks and ip infrastructures. as a result of changes in the economy, capital spending or the building of network capacity in excess of demand (all of which, have in the past, particularly affected telecommunications service providers), spending on ip infrastructure can vary, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition, a number of our existing customers are evaluating the build-out of their next generation networks. during the decision-making period when our customers are determining the design of those networks and the selection of the software and equipment they will use in those networks, such customers may greatly reduce or suspend their spending on secure ip infrastructure. for example, in recent years, our switching and routing results were adversely affected by spending delays from our largest cloud customers, who we believe are in the process of implementing a networking architectural shift. the duration of the delay is difficult to predict, in part because each cloud customer will migrate their network architecture based on their own constraints. such delays in purchases can make it more difficult to predict revenues from customers, can cause fluctuations in the level of spending by customers and, even where our products are ultimately selected, can have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 19 table of contents if we do not successfully anticipate technological shifts, market needs and opportunities, and develop products, product enhancements and business strategies that meet those technological shifts, needs and opportunities, or if those products are not made available or strategies are not executed in a timely manner or do not gain market acceptance, we may not be able to compete effectively and our ability to generate revenues will suffer. the markets for our products are characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions, changes in customer requirements, continuous pricing pressures and a constantly evolving industry. we may not be able to anticipate future technological shifts, market needs and opportunities or be able to develop new products, product enhancements or business strategies to meet such technological shifts, needs or opportunities in a timely manner or at all. for example, the move from traditional wide area network, or wan, infrastructures towards software-defined wan, or sd-wan, has been receiving considerable attention. in our view, it will take several years to see the full impact of sd-wan, and we believe the successful products and solutions in this market will combine hardware and software elements. if we fail to anticipate market requirements or opportunities or fail to develop and introduce new products, product enhancements or business strategies to meet those requirements or opportunities in a timely manner, it could cause us to lose customers, and such failure could substantially decrease or delay market acceptance and sales of our present and future products and services, which would significantly harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition, if we invest time, energy and resources in developing products for a market that doesn't develop, it could likewise significantly harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. even if we are able to anticipate, develop, and commercially introduce new products, enhancements or business strategies, there can be no assurance that new products, enhancements or business strategies will achieve widespread market acceptance. in recent years, we have announced a number of new products and enhancements to our hardware and software products across routing, switching and security. the success of our new products depends on several factors, including, but not limited to, component costs, timely completion and introduction of these products, prompt resolution of any defects or bugs in these products, our ability to support these products, differentiation of new products from those of our competitors and market acceptance of these products. the introduction of new software products is part of our intended strategy to expand our software business. we have also begun to disaggregate certain software from certain hardware products, such that customers would be able to purchase or license our hardware and software products independently, which we expect could in time enable our hardware to be deployed with third- party networking applications and services and our software to be used with third-party hardware. the success of our strategy to expand our software business, including our strategy to disaggregate software from certain hardware products, is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including: the additional development efforts and costs required to create new software products and/or to make our disaggregated products compatible with multiple technologies; the possibility that our new software products or disaggregated products may not achieve widespread customer adoption; the possibility that our strategy could erode our revenue and gross margins; the impact on our financial results of longer periods of revenue recognition for certain types of software products and changes in tax treatment associated with software sales; the additional costs associated with regulatory compliance and changes we need to make to our distribution chain in connection with increased software sales; the ability of our disaggregated hardware and software products to operate independently and/or to integrate with current and future third-party products; and issues with third-party technologies used with our disaggregated products may be attributed to us. if any of our new products or business strategies do not gain market acceptance or meet our expectations for growth, our ability to meet future financial targets may be adversely affected and our competitive position and our business and financial results could be harmed. 20 table of contents we are dependent on contract manufacturers with whom we do not have long-term supply contracts, and changes to or disruptions in those relationships or manufacturing processes, expected or unexpected, may result in delays that could cause us to lose revenues and damage our customer relationships. we depend on independent contract manufacturers (each of which is a third-party manufacturer for numerous companies) to manufacture our products. although we have contracts with our contract manufacturers, these contracts do not require them to manufacture our products on a long-term basis in any specific quantity or at any specific price. in addition, it is time-consuming and costly to qualify and implement additional contract manufacturer relationships. therefore, if we fail to effectively manage our contract manufacturer relationships, which could include failing to provide accurate forecasts of our requirements, or if one or more of them experiences delays, disruptions, or quality control problems in their manufacturing operations, or if we had to change or add additional contract manufacturers or contract manufacturing sites, our ability to ship products to our customers could be delayed. we have experienced in the past and may experience in the future an increase in the expected time required to manufacture our products or ship products. such delays could result in supply shortfalls that damage our ability to meet customer demand for those products and could cause our customers to purchase alternative products from our competitors. also, the addition of manufacturing locations or contract manufacturers or the introduction of new products by us would increase the complexity of our supply chain management. moreover, a significant portion of our manufacturing is performed in china and other foreign countries and is therefore subject to risks associated with doing business outside of the united states, including import tariffs or regional conflicts. for example, the united states recently imposed a tariff on networking products imported from china; this includes certain products that we import into and sell within the united states. if we cannot mitigate the impact of the tariffs, the increased cost could translate into higher prices for our customers, reduced customer demand or increased cost of goods sold. in addition, increased costs of production or delays in production caused by any relocation of contract manufacturing facilities could impact the global competitiveness of our products. each of these factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we are dependent on sole source and limited source suppliers, including for key components, which makes us susceptible to shortages, quality issues or price fluctuations in our supply chain, and we may face increased challenges in supply chain management in the future. we rely on single or limited sources for many of our components. during periods of high demand for electronic products, component shortages are possible, and the predictability of the availability of such components may be limited. for example, we have recently experienced industry-wide supply constraints related to power management components. in addition, some components used in our networking solutions have in the past and may in the future experience extended lead times and higher pricing, given the demand in the market. any future spike in growth in our business, the use of certain components we share in common with other companies, in it spending or the economy in general, is likely to create greater short-term pressures on us and our suppliers to accurately forecast overall component demand and to establish optimal component inventories. if shortages or delays persist, we may not be able to secure enough components at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build and deliver products in a timely manner, and our revenues, gross margins and customer relationships could suffer. additionally, if certain components that we receive from our suppliers have defects or other quality issues, we may have to replace or repair such components, and we could be subject to claims based on warranty, product liability, epidemic or delivery failures that could lead to significant expenses. we maintain product liability insurance, but there is no guarantee that such insurance will be available or adequate to protect against all such claims. we have experienced, and from time-to-time may experience, component shortages or quality issues that resulted, or could result, in delays of product shipments, revenue charges that impact our gross margins, and/or warranty or other claims or costs. we also currently purchase numerous key components, including asics and other semiconductor chips, from single or limited sources and many of our component suppliers are concentrated in china and korea. in addition, there has been consolidation among certain suppliers of our components. for example, globalfoundries acquired ibm's semiconductor manufacturing business, avago technologies limited acquired broadcom corporation and intel corporation acquired altera corporation. consolidation among suppliers can result in the reduction of the number of independent suppliers of components available to us, which could negatively impact our ability to access certain component parts or the prices we have to pay for such parts. in addition, our suppliers may determine not to continue a business relationship with us for other reasons that may be beyond our control. any disruptions to our supply chain could decrease our sales, earnings and liquidity or otherwise adversely affect our business and result in increased costs. such a disruption could occur as a result of any number of events, including, but not limited to, increases in wages that drive up prices, the imposition of regulations, quotas or embargoes on components, labor stoppages, transportation failures affecting the supply chain and shipment of materials and finished goods, third-party interference in the integrity of the products sourced through the supply chain, the unavailability of raw materials, severe weather conditions, natural disasters, civil unrest, military conflicts, geopolitical developments, war or terrorism and disruptions in utility and other services. the development of alternate sources for components is time-consuming, difficult, and costly. in addition, the lead times associated with certain components are lengthy and preclude rapid changes in quantities and delivery schedules. also, long-term supply and maintenance obligations to customers increase the duration for which specific components are required, which may further increase 21 table of contents the risk of component shortages or the cost of carrying inventory. in the event of a component shortage or supply interruption from these suppliers, we may not be able to develop alternate or second sources in a timely manner. if we are unable to buy these components in quantities sufficient to meet our requirements on a timely basis, we will not be able to deliver products and services to our customers, which would seriously affect present and future sales, which would, in turn, adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition, the development, licensing, or acquisition of new products in the future may increase the complexity of supply chain management. failure to effectively manage the supply of components and products would adversely affect our business. if we fail to accurately predict our manufacturing requirements, we could incur additional costs or experience manufacturing delays, which would harm our business. we provide demand forecasts for our products to our contract manufacturers and original design manufacturers, who order components and plan capacity based on these forecasts. if we overestimate our requirements, our original design or contract manufacturers may assess charges, or we may have liabilities for excess inventory, each of which could negatively affect our gross margins. for example, in certain prior quarters, our gross margins were reduced as a result of an inventory charge resulting from inventory we held in excess of forecasted demand. in addition, some optical modules we use are experiencing faster product transitions than our other products, which increases the risk that we could have excess inventory of those modules. conversely, lead times for required materials and components vary significantly and depend on factors such as the specific supplier, contract terms, and the demand for each component at a given time. given that our contract manufacturers are third-party manufacturers for numerous other companies, if we underestimate our requirements, as we have in certain prior quarters with respect to certain products, our contract manufacturers may have inadequate time, materials, and/or components required to produce our products. this could increase costs or delay or interrupt manufacturing of our products, resulting in delays in shipments and deferral or loss of revenues and could negatively impact customer satisfaction. system security risks, data protection breaches, and cyber-attacks could compromise our and our customers' proprietary information, disrupt our internal operations and harm public perception of our products, which could cause our business and reputation to suffer and adversely affect our stock price. in the ordinary course of business, we store sensitive data, including intellectual property, personal data, our proprietary business information and that of our customers, suppliers and business partners on our networks. in addition, we store sensitive data through cloud-based services that may be hosted by third parties and in data center infrastructure maintained by third parties. the secure maintenance of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy. the growing cyber risk environment means that individuals, companies, and organizations of all sizes, including juniper, have been and are increasingly subject to the threat of intrusions on their networks and systems by a wide range of actors, including but not limited to nation states, criminal enterprises, and terrorist organizations, on an ongoing and regular basis. despite our security measures, and those of our third-party vendors, our information technology and infrastructure has experienced breaches and may be vulnerable in the future to breach or attacks by computer programmers, hackers or sophisticated nation-state and nation-state supported actors or breached due to employee error or wrongful conduct, malfeasance, or other disruptions. if any breach or attack compromises our networks, creates system disruptions or slowdowns or exploits security vulnerabilities of our products, the information stored on our networks or those of our customers could be accessed and modified, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen, and we may be subject to liability to our customers, suppliers, business partners and others, and suffer reputational and financial harm. in addition, hardware, components and operating system software and applications that we produce or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including "bugs", vulnerabilities and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of our networks or expose us or our products to cyber attacks. this can be true even for legacy products that have been determined to have reached an end of life engineering status but will continue to operate for a limited amount of time. furthermore, third parties may attempt to exfiltrate data through the introduction into the information and communications technology supply chain of malicious products and components that are designed to defeat or circumvent encryption and other cybersecurity measures, and if successful, such actions could diminish customer trust in our products, harm our business reputation, and adversely affect our business and financial condition. when vulnerabilities are discovered, we evaluate the risk, apply patches or take other remediation actions as required and notify customers and suppliers when appropriate. all of this requires significant time and attention from management and our employees. as a result of any actual or perceived breach of network security that occurs in our network or in the network of a customer of our products, regardless of whether the breach is attributable to our products, the market perception of the effectiveness of our products and our overall reputation could be harmed. as a large, well known provider of networking products, cyber attackers may specifically target our products or attempt to imitate us or our products in order to compromise a network. because the techniques used by attackers, many of whom are highly sophisticated and well-funded, to access or sabotage networks change 22 table of contents frequently and generally are not recognized until after they are used, we may be unable to anticipate or immediately detect these techniques or the vulnerabilities they have caused. this could impede our sales, manufacturing, distribution or other critical functions, which could have an adverse impact on our financial results. the economic costs to us to eliminate or alleviate cyber or other security problems, bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software systems and security vulnerabilities could be significant and may be difficult to anticipate or measure, because the damage may differ based on the identity and motive of the attacker, which are often difficult to pinpoint. additionally, we could be subject to regulatory investigations, potential fines and litigation in connection with a security breach or related issue and be liable to third parties for these types of breaches. we rely on value-added and other resellers, as well as distribution partners, to sell our products, and disruptions to, or our failure to effectively develop and manage, our distribution channel and the processes and procedures that support it could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues from the sale of our products. our future success is highly dependent upon establishing and maintaining successful relationships with a variety of value-added and other reseller and distribution partners, including our worldwide strategic partners such as ericsson, ibm, dimension data and nec corporation. the majority of our revenues are derived through value-added resellers and distributors, most of which also sell our competitors' products, and some of which sell their own competing products. our revenues depend in part on the performance of these partners. the loss of or reduction in sales to our resellers or distributors could materially reduce our revenues. our competitors may in some cases be effective in leveraging their market share positions or in providing incentives to current or potential resellers and distributors to favor their products or to prevent or reduce sales of our products. if we fail to develop and maintain relationships with our partners, fail to develop new relationships with value-added resellers and distributors in new markets, fail to expand the number of distributors and resellers in existing markets, fail to manage, train or motivate existing value-added resellers and distributors effectively, determine that we cannot continue to do business with these partners for any reason or if these partners are not successful in their sales efforts, sales of our products may decrease, and our business, financial condition, and results of operations would suffer. in addition, we recognize a portion of our revenues at the time we sell products to our distributors. if these sales are made based on inaccurate or untimely information, the amount or timing of our revenues could be adversely impacted. further, our distributors may increase orders during periods of product shortages, cancel orders if their inventory is too high, or delay orders in anticipation of new products. they also may adjust their orders in response to the supply of our products and the products of our competitors that are available to them, and in response to seasonal fluctuations in end-user demand. we are also vulnerable to third parties who illegally distribute or sell counterfeit, stolen or unfit versions of our products, which has happened in the past and could happen in the future. such sales could have a negative impact on our reputation and business. further, in order to develop and expand our distribution channel, we must continue to offer attractive channel programs to potential partners and scale and improve our processes and procedures that support the channel. as a result, our programs, processes and procedures may become increasingly complex and inherently difficult to manage. we have previously entered into oem agreements with partners pursuant to which they rebrand and resell our products as part of their product portfolios. these types of relationships are complex and require additional processes and procedures that may be challenging and costly to implement, maintain and manage. our failure to successfully manage and develop our distribution channel and the programs, processes and procedures that support it could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues from the sale of our products. we also depend on our global channel partners to comply with applicable legal and regulatory requirements. to the extent that they fail to do so, that could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. our ability to process orders and ship products in a timely manner is dependent in part on our business systems and performance of the systems and processes of third parties as well as the interfaces between our systems and the systems of such third parties. dependence on outsourced information technology and other administrative functions may impair our ability to operate effectively. some of our business processes depend upon our it systems, the systems and processes of third parties, and the interfaces between the two. for example, we are in the process of further consolidating our on-site data centers to the cloud and to off-site facilities that are hosted and controlled by third parties. in addition, on december 31, 2018, we entered into a master services agreement and certain statements of work with ibm pursuant to which we will outsource significant portions of our it and other administrative functions following a transition period. these cloud providers, third party providers, and off-site facilities are vulnerable to damage, interruption or performance problems from earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures, equipment failure, adverse events caused by operator error, cybersecurity attacks and similar events. in addition, because we lease our cloud storage space and off-site data center facilities, we cannot be assured that we will be able to expand our data center infrastructure to meet user demand in a timely manner, or on favorable economic terms. if we have issues receiving and processing 23 table of contents data, this may delay our ability to provide products and services to our customers and damage our business. we also rely upon the performance of the systems and processes of our contract manufacturers to build and ship our products. if those systems and processes experience interruption or delay, our ability to build and ship our products in a timely manner may be harmed. since it is critical to our operations, any failure to perform on the part of our it providers could impair our ability to operate effectively. in addition to the risks outlined above, problems with any of the third parties we rely on for our it systems could result in lower revenue and unexecuted efficiencies, and impact our results of operations and our stock price. integration of acquisitions could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition and stock price and may dilute the ownership of our stockholders. we have made, and may continue to make, acquisitions in order to enhance our business. for example, we acquired htbase in 2018 and cyphort in 2017. acquisitions involve numerous risks, including, but not limited to, problems combining the purchased operations, technologies or products, unanticipated costs, liabilities, litigation, and diversion of management's attention from our core businesses, adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers, risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience, and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions, initial dependence on unfamiliar supply chains or relatively small supply partners, and the potential loss of key employees, customers, distributors, vendors and other business partners of the companies we acquire. there can be no assurance that we will be able to integrate successfully any businesses, products, technologies, or personnel that we might acquire. the integration of businesses that we may acquire is likely to be a complex, time-consuming, and expensive process and we may not realize the anticipated revenues or other benefits associated with our acquisitions. if we fail to successfully manage, operate or integrate any acquired business or if we are unable to efficiently operate as a combined organization utilizing common information and communication systems, operating procedures, financial controls, and human resources practices, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected. in connection with certain acquisitions, we may agree to issue common stock , or assume equity awards, that dilute the ownership of our current stockholders, use a substantial portion of our cash resources, assume liabilities (both known and unknown), record goodwill and amortizable intangible assets that will be subject to impairment testing on a regular basis and potential periodic impairment charges, incur amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets, and incur large and immediate write-offs and restructuring and other related expenses, all of which could harm our financial condition and results of operations. we are a party to lawsuits, investigations, proceedings, and other disputes, which are costly to defend and, if determined adversely to us, could require us to pay fines or damages, undertake remedial measures or prevent us from taking certain actions, any or all of which could harm our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. we, and certain of our current and former officers and current and former members of our board of directors, have been or are subject to various lawsuits. we have been served with lawsuits related to employment matters, commercial transactions and patent infringement, as well as securities laws. the u.s. securities and exchange commission, or the sec, is conducting, and the u.s. department of justice, or the doj, was previously conducting investigations into possible violations by the company of the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, or the fcpa, in a number of countries. the company's audit committee, with the assistance of independent advisors, conducted a thorough internal review of possible violations of the fcpa, and the company made improvements in its internal controls and carried out a number of disciplinary actions. the company is continuing to fully cooperate with the sec's ongoing investigation, and based on the recent communications with the staff of the sec, the company believes it is likely that the staff of the sec will seek to bring an enforcement action against the company. the company believes it is probable that it could incur a loss and has established an estimated legal reserve of $12.0 million related to the ongoing sec investigation. litigation and investigations are inherently uncertain. we therefore cannot predict the duration, scope, outcome or consequences of litigation and government investigations. in connection with any government investigations, including those in which we are currently involved as described above, if the government takes action against us or we agree to settle the matter, we may be required to pay substantial fines and incur other sanctions, which may be material, and suffer reputational harm. the lawsuits and investigations are expensive and time-consuming to defend, settle, and/or resolve, and may require us to implement certain remedial measures that could prove costly or disruptive to our business and operations. the unfavorable resolution of one or more of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. 24 table of contents we are a party to litigation and claims regarding intellectual property rights, resolution of which may be time-consuming and expensive, as well as require a significant amount of resources to prosecute, defend, or make our products non-infringing. our industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent claims and related litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. we expect that infringement claims may increase as the number of products and competitors in our market increases and overlaps occur. third parties have asserted and may in the future assert claims or initiate litigation related to patent, copyright, trademark, and other intellectual property rights to technologies and related standards that are relevant to our products. the asserted claims and/or initiated litigation may include claims against us or our manufacturers, suppliers, partners, or customers, alleging that our products or services infringe proprietary rights. in addition, increased patent litigation brought by non-practicing entities in recent years may result, and in some cases has resulted, in our customers requesting or requiring us to absorb a portion of the costs of such litigation or providing broader indemnification for litigation, each of which could increase our expenses and negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. regardless of the merit of these claims, they have been and can be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, and may require us to develop non-infringing technologies, enter into license agreements, or cease engaging in certain activities or offering certain products or services. furthermore, because of the potential for high awards of damages or injunctive relief that are not necessarily predictable, even arguably unmeritorious claims may be settled for significant amounts of money. if any infringement or other intellectual property claim made against us or anyone we are required to indemnify by any third-party is successful, if we are required to settle litigation for significant amounts of money, if we fail to develop non-infringing technology, if we incorporate infringing technology in our products or if we license required proprietary rights at material expense, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. as we seek to sell more products to telecommunications, cable and cloud service provider companies and other large customers, we may be required to agree to terms and conditions that could have an adverse effect on our business or impact the amount of revenues to be recognized. telecommunications, cable and cloud service provider companies, which comprise a significant portion of our customer base, and other large companies, generally have greater purchasing power than smaller entities and, accordingly, often request and receive more favorable terms from suppliers. for example, our customers france telecom-orange and deutsche telekom ag have formed a company for the purpose of purchasing products from, and negotiating more favorable contractual terms with, suppliers. as we seek to sell more products to this class of customer, we may be required to agree to such terms and conditions, which may include terms that affect the timing of our ability to recognize revenue, increase our costs and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. consolidation among such large customers can further increase their buying power and ability to require onerous terms. in addition, service providers have purchased products from other vendors who promised but failed to deliver certain functionality and/or had products that caused problems or outages in the networks of these customers. as a result, these customers may request additional features from us and require substantial penalties for failure to deliver such features or may require substantial penalties for any network outages that may be caused by our products. these additional requests and penalties, if we are required to agree to them, may impact the amount of revenue recognition from such sales, which may negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, increased patent litigation brought against customers by non-practicing entities in recent years, may result, and in some cases has resulted, in customers requesting or requiring vendors to absorb a portion of the costs of such litigation or providing broader indemnification for litigation, each of which could increase our expenses and negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. regulation of our industry in general and the telecommunications industry in particular could harm our operating results and future prospects. we are subject to laws and regulations affecting the sale of our products in a number of areas. for example, some governments have regulations prohibiting government entities from purchasing security products that do not meet country-specific safety, conformance or security certification criteria or in-country test requirements. other regulations that may negatively impact our business include local content or local manufacturing requirements most commonly applicable for government, state-owned enterprise or regulated industry procurements. these types of regulations are in effect or under consideration in several jurisdictions where we do business. the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act includes disclosure requirements applicable to public companies regarding the use of conflict minerals mined from the democratic republic of congo and adjoining countries, which we refer to collectively as the drc, and procedures regarding a manufacturer's efforts to prevent the sourcing of such conflict minerals. these minerals are present in our products. in addition, the european union reached agreement in late 2016 on a eu-wide conflict minerals rule under which most eu importers of tin, tungsten, tantalum, gold and their ores will have to conduct due diligence to 25 table of contents ensure the minerals do not originate from conflict zones and do not fund armed conflicts. large manufacturers also will have to disclose how they plan to monitor their sources to comply with the rules. the regulation was adopted in 2017 with compliance required by 2021. in addition, environmental laws and regulations relevant to electronic equipment manufacturing or operations, including laws and regulations governing the hazardous material content of our products and laws relating to the collection of and recycling of electrical and electronic equipment, may adversely impact our business and financial condition. these laws and regulations include, among others, the european union, or eu, restriction on the use of certain hazardous substances directive, or rohs. the eu rohs and the similar laws of other jurisdictions limit the content of certain hazardous materials, such as lead, mercury, and cadmium, in electronic equipment, including our products. currently, our products comply with the eu rohs requirements. however, certain exemptions are scheduled to lapse. the lapse of any exemption, further changes to this or other laws, or passage of similar laws in the eu or other jurisdictions, would require us to cease selling non-compliant products and to reengineer our products to use components compatible with these regulations. this reengineering and component substitution could result in additional costs to us, disrupt our operations or logistics, and result in an adverse impact on our operating results. in addition, in validating the compliance of our products with applicable hazardous materials restrictions, we rely substantially on affirmations by our component suppliers as to the compliance of their products with respect to those same restrictions. failure by our component suppliers to furnish accurate and timely information could subject us to penalties or liability for violation of such hazardous materials restrictions, interrupt our supply of products to the eu, and result in our customers refusing or being unable to purchase our products. additionally, the eu and a number of other jurisdictions have adopted regulations requiring producers of electrical and electronic equipment to assume certain responsibilities for collecting, treating, recycling and disposing of products when they have reached the end of their useful life. finally, the eu reach regulations regulate the handling of certain chemical substances that may be used in our products. in addition, as a contractor and subcontractor to u.s. government departments and agencies, we are subject to federal regulations pertaining to our it systems. for instance, as a subcontractor to the u.s. department of defense, or dod, the defense federal acquisition regulation supplement, or dfars, required that our it systems comply with the security and privacy controls described in national institute of standards and technology special publication 800-171, or nist sp 800-171. the dfars also requires that we flow the security control requirement down to certain of our own subcontractors. failure to comply with these requirements could result in a loss of federal government business, subject us to claims or other remedies for non-compliance and negatively impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations. the telecommunications industry is highly regulated, and our business and financial condition could be adversely affected by changes in regulations relating to the internet telecommunications industry. similarly, while there are currently few laws or regulations that apply directly to access to or commerce on ip networks, future regulations could include sales taxes on products sold via the internet and internet service provider access charges. we could be adversely affected by regulation of ip networks and commerce in any country where we market equipment and services to service providers or cloud provider companies. regulations governing the range of services and business models that can be offered by service providers or cloud provider companies could adversely affect those customers' needs for products. for instance, in december 2017, the u.s. federal communications commission repealed its 2015 regulations governing aspects of fixed broadband networks and wireless networks. this change in regulatory treatment of networks might impact service provider and cloud provider business models and their need for internet telecommunications equipment and services. at the same time, several states have enacted their own laws and regulations governing certain aspects of fixed and wireless networks in the manner of the 2015 fcc regulations. these laws and regulations enacted by the states are or will be subject to legal challenges from the federal government and/or regulated providers. also, many jurisdictions are evaluating or implementing regulations relating to cyber security, supply chain integrity, privacy and data protection, any of which can affect the market and requirements for networking and security equipment. the adoption and implementation of additional regulations could reduce demand for our products, increase the cost of building and selling our products, result in product inventory write-offs, impact our ability to ship products into affected areas and recognize revenue in a timely manner, require us to spend significant time and expense to comply, and subject us to fines and civil or criminal sanctions or claims if we were to violate or become liable under such regulations. any of these impacts could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 26 table of contents governmental regulations and economic sanctions affecting the import or export of products generally or affecting products containing encryption capabilities in particular, could negatively affect our revenues and operating results. the united states and various foreign governments have imposed controls and restrictions on the export of, among other things, products that contain or use encryption technology. most of our products contain or use encryption technology and, consequently, are subject to such controls, requirements and restrictions. certain governments, like those of russia and china, control importation and in-country use of encryption items and technology. the scope, nature and severity of such controls vary widely across different countries and may change frequently over time. increasingly, governments have begun using export and import controls not only to further national security objectives but also to protect local industries and restrict proliferation of locally developed emerging or foundational technology." for example, in 2018 the u.s. enacted the export control reform act, which expands the power of the commerce department to use export controls to protect domestic industry and to restrict the export of emerging and foundational technologies not currently subject to controls. in furtherance of that law, on november 19, 2018, the united states department of commerce sought public comment on how to define emerging technologies. our ability to market and sell our products overseas may be impacted by such export controls. certain governments also impose special local content, certification, testing, source code review, escrow and governmental recovery of private encryption keys, or feature requirements on cybersecurity and other network equipment for purposes of government procurements. similar requirements also may be imposed in procurements by state owned entities ( soe's ) or even private companies forming part of critical network infrastructure or supporting sensitive industries. for example, china, vietnam and india have promulgated cybersecurity regulations affecting networking products that may impair our ability to profitably market and sell our products there. china, in particular, is expected to require implementation of non-standard chinese encryption algorithms in products sold into certain government, soe, critical infrastructure and sensitive industry (such as financial institutions) markets. in the u.s., there are new restrictions on the use of certain chinese-origin components or systems in items sold to the u.s. government. in addition, the u.s. and other governments have especially broad sanctions and embargoes prohibiting provision of goods or services to certain countries, and territories, and to certain sanctioned governments, legal entities and individuals. some of these restrictions have been imposed not just to protect national security but also to protect domestic industries and to achieve political aims. for instance, the u.s. department of commerce in 2018 added to its entity list a chinese semiconductor manufacturer on the express basis that it threatens the viability of u.s. competitors; the entity list traditionally is used to restrict exports to end users that pose a security risk. particularly far reaching and complex are restrictions imposed by the u.s. and eu on exports to russia and, in particular, to the disputed region of crimea. we have implemented systems to detect and prevent sales into these restricted countries or to prohibited entities or individuals, but there can be no assurance that our third party, downstream resellers and distributors will abide by these restrictions or have processes in place to ensure compliance, especially where local government regulation might prohibit adherence to such restrictions. in addition, governments sometimes impose additional taxes on certain imported products. for example, the united states and chinese governments each have imposed tariffs on certain products originating from the other country. in 2018, the united states, for example, imposed tariffs on a large variety of products of china origin. as a result, beginning september 24, 2018, a large portion of juniper products manufactured in china became subject to a 10% tariff on importation into the u.s. that tariff rate may increase to 25% on march 2, 2019, absent satisfactory outcome of continuing negotiations between the united states and china. the u.s. president has also indicated a readiness to further expand the scope of the tariffs on chinese goods if negotiations are not successful; such action could subject an even wider range of juniper products to tariff on importation into the u.s. depending upon its duration and implementation, as well as our ability to mitigate their impact, these tariffs could materially affect our business, including in the form of increased cost of goods sold, increased pricing for customers, and reduced sales. governmental regulation of encryption or ip networking technology and regulation of imports or exports, or our failure to obtain required import or export approval for our products, or related economic sanctions could harm our international and domestic sales and adversely affect our revenues and operating results. in addition, failure to comply with such regulations could result in harm to our reputation and ability to compete in international markets, penalties, costs, seizure of assets (including source code) and restrictions on import or export privileges or adversely affect sales to government agencies or government-funded projects. 27 table of contents our actual or perceived failure to adequately protect personal data could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. a wide variety of provincial, state, national, foreign, and international laws and regulations apply to the collection, use, retention, protection, disclosure, transfer, and other processing of personal data. these privacy- and data protection-related laws and regulations are evolving, with new or modified laws and regulations proposed and implemented frequently and existing laws and regulations subject to new or different interpretations. further, our legal and regulatory obligations in foreign jurisdictions are subject to unexpected changes, including the potential for regulatory or other governmental entities to enact new or additional laws or regulations, to issues rulings that invalidate prior laws or regulations, or to increase penalties significantly. compliance with these laws and regulations can be costly and can delay or impede the development and offering of new products and services. for example, the general data protection regulation ( gdpr ), which became effective in may 2018, imposes more stringent data protection requirements, and provides for significantly greater penalties for noncompliance, than the eu laws that previously applied. additionally, california recently enacted legislation, the california consumer privacy act ( ccpa ), which will become effective january 1, 2020. the ccpa will, among other requirements, require covered companies to provide new disclosures to california consumers, and allow such consumers new abilities to opt-out of certain sales of personal information. legislators have stated that they intend to propose amendments to the ccpa before the effective date. it remains unclear the extent of the modifications that will be made to the ccpa, or how such modifications will be interpreted. the effects of the ccpa potentially are significant and may require us to modify our data processing practices and policies and to incur substantial costs and expenses in an effort to comply. we may also be subject to additional obligations relating to personal data by contract that industry standards apply to our practices. our actual or perceived failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations or other obligations to which we may be subject relating to personal data, or to protect personal data from unauthorized access, use, or other processing, could result in enforcement actions and regulatory investigations against us, claims for damages by customers and other affected individuals, fines, damage to our reputation, and loss of goodwill, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial performance, and business. further, evolving and changing definitions of personal data and personal information, within the eu, the u.s., u.k., and elsewhere, including the classification of ip addresses, machine identification information, location data, and other information, may limit or inhibit our ability to operate or expand our business, including limiting business relationships and partnerships that may involve the sharing or uses of data, and may require significant costs, resources, and efforts in order to comply. our ability to develop, market, and sell products could be harmed if we are unable to retain or hire key personnel. our future success depends upon our ability to recruit and retain the services of executive, engineering, sales and marketing, and support personnel. the supply of highly qualified individuals, in particular engineers in very specialized technical areas, or sales people with specialized industry expertise, is limited and competition for such individuals is intense. none of our officers or key employees is bound by an employment agreement for any specific term. the loss of the services of any of our key employees, the inability to attract or retain personnel in the future or delays in hiring required personnel, engineers and sales people, and the complexity and time involved in replacing or training new employees, could delay the development and introduction of new products, and negatively impact our ability to market, sell, or support our products. a number of our team members are foreign nationals who rely on visas and entry permits in order to legally work in the united states and other countries. in recent years, the united states has increased the level of scrutiny in granting h-1(b), l-1 and other business visas. in addition, the current u.s. administration has made immigration reform a priority. compliance with united states immigration and labor laws could require us to incur additional unexpected labor costs and expenses or could restrain our ability to retain skilled professionals. any of these restrictions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial conditions. our financial condition and results of operations could suffer if there is an impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets with indefinite lives. we are required to test intangible assets with indefinite lives, including goodwill, annually or more frequently if certain circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit and intangible assets below their carrying values. as of december 31, 2018 , our goodwill was $3,108.8 million and our intangible assets with indefinite lives was $49.0 million . when the carrying value of a reporting unit's goodwill exceeds its implied fair value of goodwill, or if the carrying amount of an intangible asset with an indefinite life exceeds its fair value, a charge to operations is recorded. either event would result in incremental expenses for that quarter, which would reduce any earnings or increase any loss for the period in which the impairment was determined to have occurred. we have in the past recorded goodwill impairment charges. declines in our level of revenues or declines in our operating margins, or sustained declines in our stock price, increase the risk that goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives may become impaired in future periods. 28 table of contents our goodwill impairment analysis is sensitive to changes in key assumptions used in our analysis, such as expected future cash flows, the degree of volatility in equity and debt markets, and our stock price. if the assumptions used in our analysis are not realized, it is possible that an impairment charge may need to be recorded in the future. we cannot accurately predict the amount and timing of any impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets. however, any such impairment would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. changes in effective tax rates or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income or other tax returns could adversely affect our results. our future effective tax rates could be subject to volatility or adversely affected by the following: earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated earnings in countries where we have higher statutory rates; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; expiration of, or lapses in, the r&amp;d tax credit laws applicable to us; transfer pricing adjustments related to certain acquisitions, including the license of acquired intangibles under our intercompany r&amp;d cost sharing arrangement; costs related to intercompany restructuring; tax effects of share-based compensation; challenges to our methodologies for valuing developed technology or intercompany arrangements; limitations on the deductibility of net interest expense; or changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles, or interpretations thereof. for example, on july 24, 2018, the ninth circuit court of appeals, or the court, issued an opinion in altera corp. v. commissioner requiring related parties in an intercompany cost-sharing arrangement to share expenses related to share-based compensation. on august 7, 2018, the court withdrew its opinion to allow time for a reconstituted panel to confer. we are monitoring this case and any impact the final opinion may have on our financial statements. in addition, the tax cuts and jobs act of 2017 (the tax act ), which was signed into law on december 22, 2017, made significant changes to the taxation of u.s. business entities that may have a meaningful impact to our provision for income taxes. these changes included a reduction to the federal corporate income tax rate, the current taxation of certain foreign earnings, the imposition of base-erosion prevention measures which may limit the deduction of certain transfer pricing payments, and possible limitations on the deductibility of net interest expense or corporate debt obligations. accounting for the income tax effects of the tax act required significant judgments and estimates that are based on current interpretations of the tax act. the u.s. department of the treasury continues to issue proposed regulations that affect various components of the act. our future effective tax rate may be impacted by changes in interpretation of the regulations, as well as additional legislation and guidance regarding the act. furthermore, on october 5, 2015, the organisation for economic co-operation and development, or oecd, an international association of 35 countries including the u.s., published final proposals under its base erosion and profit shifting, or beps, action plan. the beps action plan includes fifteen actions to address beps in a comprehensive manner and represents a significant change to the international corporate tax landscape. these proposals, as adopted by countries, may increase tax uncertainty and adversely affect our provision for income taxes. in addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the internal revenue service, or irs, and other tax authorities. it is possible that tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and any adverse outcome of such a review or audit could have a negative effect on our financial position and operating results. we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes, but the determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires significant judgment by management, and there are transactions where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. although we believe that our estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our consolidated financial statements and may materially affect our financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made. there can be no assurance that the outcomes from continuous examinations will not have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we may face difficulties enforcing our proprietary rights, which could adversely affect our ability to compete. we generally rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secret laws and contractual restrictions on disclosure of confidential and proprietary information, to establish and maintain proprietary rights in our technology and products. although we have been issued numerous patents and other patent applications are currently pending, there can be no assurance that any of our patent applications will result in issued patents or that any of our patents or other proprietary rights will not be challenged, invalidated, infringed or circumvented or that our rights will, in fact, provide competitive advantages to us or protect our technology, any of which could result in costly product redesign efforts, discontinuance of certain product offerings and other competitive harm. 29 table of contents in addition, despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. we generally enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants, vendors, and customers, and generally limit access to and distribution of our proprietary information. however, we cannot assure you that we have entered into such agreements with all parties who may have or have had access to our confidential information or that the agreements we have entered into will not be breached. we cannot guarantee that any of the measures we have taken will prevent misappropriation of our technology. furthermore, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. the outcome of any actions taken in these foreign countries may be different than if such actions were determined under the laws of the united states. although we are not dependent on any individual patents or group of patents for particular segments of the business for which we compete, if we are unable to protect our proprietary rights in a market, we may find ourselves at a competitive disadvantage to others who need not incur the substantial expense, time, and effort required to create innovative products that have enabled our success. we are subject to risks arising from our international operations, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we derive a substantial portion of our revenues from our international operations, and we plan to continue expanding our business in international markets. we conduct significant sales and customer support operations directly and indirectly through our distributors and value-added resellers in countries throughout the world and depend on the operations of our contract manufacturers and suppliers that are located outside of the united states. in addition, a portion of our r&amp;d and our general and administrative operations are conducted outside the united states. in some countries, we may experience reduced intellectual property protection. as a result of our international operations, we are affected by economic, business regulatory, social, and political conditions in foreign countries, including the following: changes in general it spending, the imposition of government controls, inclusive of critical infrastructure protection; changes or limitations in trade protection laws or other regulatory requirements, which may affect our ability to import or export our products from various countries; laws that restrict sales of products developed or manufactured outside of the country; varying and potentially conflicting laws and regulations; fluctuations in local economies; wage inflation or a tightening of the labor market; tax policies that could have a business impact; import tariffs imposed by the united states and reciprocal tariffs imposed by foreign countries; data privacy rules and other regulations that affect cross border data flow; and the impact of the following on customer spending patterns: political considerations, unfavorable changes in tax treaties or laws, natural disasters, epidemic disease, labor unrest, earnings expatriation restrictions, misappropriation of intellectual property, military actions, acts of terrorism, political and social unrest and difficulties in staffing and managing international operations. any or all of these factors could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition, the u.k.'s exit from the eu, commonly referred to as brexit, has caused, and may continue to cause, uncertainty in the global markets. brexit, if implemented, will take some period of time to complete and could result in regulatory changes that impact our business. for example, changes to the way service providers conduct business and transmit data between the u.k. and the eu could require us to make changes to the way we handle customer data. we will also review the impact of any resulting 30 table of contents changes to eu or u.k. law that could affect our operations, such as labor policies, financial planning, product manufacturing, and product distribution. political and regulatory responses to the vote are still developing and we are in the process of assessing the impact the vote may have on our business as more information becomes available. nevertheless, because we conduct business in the eu, including the u.k., any of the effects of brexit, including those we cannot anticipate, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. there remains significant risk that the u.k. will exit from the eu on march 30, 2019, without agreement between the eu and u.k. on terms addressing customs and trade matters. if it occurs, this hard brexit scenario would mean, among other things, that as of march 30, 2019, u.k. customs would have to clear a far greater daily volume of imports than it has ever had to before. if u.k. customs is not able to handle such increased volume as of the end of march, significant delays in imports may very well result, thereby potentially producing a short-term material adverse effect on our business. hard brexit could result in further short-term uncertainty and currency volatility. additional currency volatility could drive a weaker british pound, which increases the cost of goods imported into our u.k. operations and may decrease the profitability of our u.k. operations. a weaker british pound versus the u.s. dollar also causes local currency results of our u.k. operations to be translated into fewer u.s. dollars during a reporting period. any adjustments we make to our business and operations as a result of brexit could result in significant time and expense to complete. our business is also impacted by the negotiation and implementation of free trade agreements between the united states and other nations. such agreements can reduce barriers to international trade and thus the cost of conducting business overseas. for instance, the united states recently reached a new trilateral trade agreement with the governments of canada and mexico to replace the north american free trade agreement (nafta). if the united states withdraws from nafta and the three countries fail to approve the new agreement, known as the united states-mexico-canada agreement (u.s.mca), our cost of doing business within the three countries could increase. moreover, local laws and customs in many countries differ significantly from or conflict with those in the united states or in other countries in which we operate. in many foreign countries, it is common for others to engage in business practices that are prohibited by our internal policies and procedures or u.s. regulations applicable to us. there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, channel partners, and agents will not take actions in violation of our policies and procedures, which are designed to ensure compliance with u.s. and foreign laws and policies. violations of laws or key control policies by our employees, contractors, channel partners, or agents could result in termination of our relationship, financial reporting problems, fines, and/or penalties for us, or prohibition on the importation or exportation of our products, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our products are highly technical and if they contain undetected defects, errors or malware or do not meet customer quality expectations, our business could be adversely affected, and we may be subject to additional costs or lawsuits or be required to pay damages in connection with any alleged or actual failure of our products and services. our products are highly technical and complex, are critical to the operation of many networks, and, in the case of our security products, provide and monitor network security and may protect valuable information. our products have contained and may contain one or more undetected errors, defects, malware, or security vulnerabilities. these errors may arise from hardware or software we produce or procure from third parties. some errors in our products may only be discovered after a product has been installed and used by end-customers. any errors, defects, malware or security vulnerabilities discovered in our products after commercial release could result in monetary penalties, negative publicity, loss of revenues or delay in revenue recognition, loss of customers, loss of future business and reputation, penalties, and increased service and warranty cost, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition, in the event an error, defect, malware, or vulnerability is attributable to a component supplied by a third-party vendor, we may not be able to recover from the vendor all of the costs of remediation that we may incur. in addition, we could face claims for product liability, tort, or breach of warranty or indemnification. defending a lawsuit, regardless of its merit, is costly and may divert management's attention. if our business liability insurance coverage is inadequate, or future coverage is unavailable on acceptable terms or at all, our financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. moreover, if our products fail to satisfy our customers' quality expectations for whatever reason, the perception of and the demand for our products could be adversely affected. we are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. because a substantial portion of our business is conducted outside the united states, we face exposure to adverse movements in non-u.s. currency exchange rates. these exposures may change over time as business practices evolve and could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. 31 table of contents the majority of our revenues and expenses are transacted in u.s. dollars. we also have some transactions that are denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the british pound, chinese yuan, euro, and indian rupee related to our sales and service operations outside of the united states. an increase in the value of the u.s. dollar could increase the real cost to our customers of our products in those markets outside the united states in which we sell in u.s. dollars. this could negatively affect our ability to meet our customers' pricing expectations in those markets and may result in erosion of gross margin and market share. a weakened u.s. dollar could increase the cost of local operating expenses and procurement of raw materials to the extent we must purchase components in foreign currencies. currently, we hedge currency exposures associated with certain assets and liabilities denominated in nonfunctional currencies and periodically hedge anticipated foreign currency cash flows, with the aim of offsetting the impact of currency fluctuations on these exposures. however, hedge activities can be costly, and hedging cannot fully offset all risks, including long-term declines or appreciation in the value of the u.s. dollar. if our attempts to hedge against these risks are not successful, or if long-term declines or appreciation in the value of the u.s. dollar persist, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted. if we fail to adequately evolve our financial and managerial control and reporting systems and processes, our ability to manage and grow our business will be negatively affected. our ability to successfully offer our products and implement our business plan in a rapidly evolving market requires an effective planning, forecasting, and management process to enable us to effectively scale and adjust our business and business models in response to fluctuating market opportunities and conditions. we will need to continue to improve our financial and managerial control and our reporting systems and procedures in order to manage our business effectively in the future. if we fail to effectively improve our systems and processes or we fail to monitor and ensure that these systems and processes are being used correctly, our ability to manage our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be negatively affected. if our products do not interoperate with our customers' networks, installations will be delayed or cancelled and could harm our business. our products are designed to interface with our customers' existing networks, each of which have different specifications and utilize multiple protocol standards and products from other vendors. many of our customers' networks contain multiple generations of products that have been added over time as these networks have grown and evolved. our products must interoperate with many or all of the products within these networks as well as future products in order to meet our customers' requirements. if we find errors in the existing software or defects in the hardware used in our customers' networks, we may need to modify our software or hardware to fix or overcome these errors so that our products will interoperate and scale with the existing software and hardware, which could be costly and could negatively affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition, if our products do not interoperate with those of our customers' networks, demand for our products could be adversely affected or orders for our products could be cancelled. this could hurt our operating results, damage our reputation, and seriously harm our business and prospects. our products incorporate and rely upon licensed third-party technology, and if licenses of third-party technology do not continue to be available to us or are not available on terms acceptable to us, our revenues and ability to develop and introduce new products could be adversely affected. we integrate licensed third-party technology into certain of our products. from time to time, we may be required to renegotiate our current third-party licenses or license additional technology from third-parties to develop new products or product enhancements or to facilitate new business models. third-party licenses may not be available or continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms. the failure to comply with the terms of any license, including free open source software, may result in our inability to continue to use such license. some of our agreements with our licensors may be terminated for convenience by them. in addition, we cannot be certain that our licensors are not infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties or that our licensors have sufficient rights to the licensed intellectual property in all jurisdictions in which we may sell our products. third- party technology we incorporate into our products that is deemed to infringe on the intellectual property of others may result, and in some cases has resulted, in limitations on our ability to source technology from those third parties, restrictions on our ability to sell products that incorporate the infringing technology, increased exposure to liability that we will be held responsible for incorporating the infringing technology in our products and increased costs involved in removing that technology from our products or developing substitute technology. our inability to maintain or re-license any third-party licenses required in our products or our inability to obtain third-party licenses necessary to develop new products and product enhancements, could require us, if possible, to develop substitute technology or obtain substitute technology of lower quality or performance standards or at a greater cost, any of which could delay or prevent product shipment and harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 32 table of contents we rely on the availability and performance of information technology services provided by third parties, including ibm which will manage a significant portion of our systems. under the terms of our recent master services agreement and certain statements of work, following a transition period, ibm will provide us with a broad range of information technology services, such as applications, including support, development and maintenance; infrastructure management and support, including for servers storage and network devices; and end user support including service desk. we expect that our businesses will become dependent on the services provided and systems operated for us by ibm and its third-party providers. while we believe that we conducted appropriate due diligence before entering into this agreement, the failure of one or more of these entities to meet our performance standards and expectations, including with respect to data security, may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. our success is dependent on our ability to maintain effective relationships with ibm and other third-party technology and service providers as well as the ability of ibm and any other third-party providers to perform as expected. we may terminate our agreement with ibm and any and all statements of work at any time on short notice for cause, convenience, certain specific performance failures, a breach of warranties by ibm, failure to transition, failure to transform, changes in law, force majeure, or a change in the control of either ibm or us. depending on the type and timing of a termination, we may be required to pay certain termination amounts to ibm. ibm's only right to terminate the agreement is based on our failure to comply with certain terms applying to disputed payments. our ability to realize the expected benefits of this arrangement is subject to various risks, some of which are not within our complete control. these risks include, but are not limited to, disruption in services and the failure to protect the security and integrity of the company's data under the terms of the agreement. we are unable to provide assurances that some or all of these risks will not occur. failure to effectively mitigate these risks, if they occur, could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial results. in addition, we could face significant additional costs or business disruption if our arrangement with ibm is terminated or impaired and we cannot find alternative it services or support on commercially reasonable terms or on a timely basis or if we are unable to hire new employees in order to return these services in-house. we are required to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and publicly disclose material weaknesses in our controls. any adverse results from such evaluation may adversely affect investor perception, and our stock price. section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 requires our management to assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and to disclose in our filing if such controls were unable to provide assurance that a material error would be prevented or detected in a timely manner. we have an ongoing program to review the design of our internal controls framework in keeping with changes in business needs, implement necessary changes to our controls design and test the system and process controls necessary to comply with these requirements. if in the future, our internal controls over financial reporting are determined to be not effective resulting in a material weakness or significant deficiency, investor perceptions regarding the reliability of our financial statements may be adversely affected which could cause a decline in the market price of our stock and otherwise negatively affect our liquidity and financial condition. failure to maintain our credit ratings could adversely affect our cost of funds and related margins, liquidity, competitive position and access to capital markets. the major credit rating agencies routinely evaluate our indebtedness. this evaluation is based on a number of factors, which include financial strength as well as transparency with rating agencies and timeliness of financial reporting. there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our credit ratings and failure to do so could adversely affect our cost of funds and related margins, liquidity, competitive position and access to capital markets. we may be unable to generate the cash flow to satisfy our expenses, make anticipated capital expenditures or service our debt obligations, including the notes and the revolving credit facility. as of december 31, 2018 , we have issued $2,150.0 million in aggregate principal amount of senior notes, which we refer to collectively as the notes, and had $2,139.0 million in total outstanding debt, including $350 million of senior notes that mature in february 2019. in june 2014, we entered into a credit agreement with certain institutional lenders that provides for a five-year $500.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility, which we refer to as the revolving credit facility, with an option to increase the revolving credit facility by up to an additional $200.0 million . the credit agreement will terminate in june 2019, at which point all amounts borrowed must be repaid. as of december 31, 2018 , no amounts were outstanding under the credit agreement. 33 table of contents we may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to enable us to satisfy our expenses, make anticipated capital expenditures or service our indebtedness, including the notes and the revolving credit facility (if drawn upon). our ability to pay our expenses, satisfy our debt obligations, refinance our debt obligations and fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. based upon current levels of operations, we believe cash flow from operations and available cash will be adequate for at least the next twelve months to meet our anticipated requirements for working capital, capital expenditures and scheduled payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness, including the notes and the revolving credit facility (if drawn upon). however, if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or to borrow sufficient funds in the future to service our debt, we may be required to sell assets, reduce capital expenditures, refinance all or a portion of our existing debt (including the notes) or obtain additional financing. there is no assurance that we will be able to refinance our debt, sell assets or borrow more money on terms acceptable to us, or at all. the indentures that govern the notes contain various covenants that limit our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to, among other things: incur liens; incur sale and leaseback transactions; and consolidate or merge with or into, or sell substantially all of our assets to, another person. the credit agreement contains two financial covenants along with customary affirmative and negative covenants that include the following: maintenance of a leverage ratio no greater than 3.0x and an interest coverage ratio no less than 3.0x covenants that limit or restrict the ability of the company and its subsidiaries to, among other things, grant liens, merge or consolidate, dispose of all or substantially all of its assets, change their accounting or reporting policies, change their business and incur subsidiary indebtedness, in each case subject to customary exceptions for a credit facility of this size and type. as a result of these covenants, we are limited in the manner in which we can conduct our business, and we may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or capital needs. accordingly, these restrictions may limit our ability to successfully operate our business. a failure to comply with these restrictions could lead to an event of default, which could result in an acceleration of the indebtedness. our future operating results may not be sufficient to enable compliance with these covenants to remedy any such default. in addition, in the event of an acceleration, we may not have or be able to obtain sufficient funds to make any accelerated payments, including those under the notes, and the revolving credit facility (if drawn upon). in addition, certain changes under the tax act may result in limitations on the deductibility of our net business interest expenses. the tax act generally limits the annual deduction for net business interest expense to an amount equal to 30% of adjusted taxable income. as a result, if our taxable income were to decline, we may not be able to fully deduct our net interest expense. these changes, among others under the tax act, could result in increases to our future u.s. tax expenses, which could have a material impact on our business. a portion of the transaction consideration we received from the divestiture of our junos pulse product portfolio is in the form of a non-contingent seller promissory note and we may not receive the amount owed to us (including accrued interest), including in the time frame contemplated, by the buyer under the note. in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2014, we completed the sale of our junos pulse product portfolio to an affiliate of siris capital, a private equity firm, for total consideration of $230.7 million, of which $125.0 million was in the form of an 18-month non-contingent interest-bearing promissory note issued to the company. on may 1, 2017, we received a principal payment in the amount of $75.0 million and outstanding interest on the note, and we and the issuer agreed to further amend the terms of the note with respect to the remaining approximately $58.0 million to, among other things, extend the maturity date from december 31, 2018 to september 30, 2022, provide that interest due can be paid in kind by increasing the outstanding principal amount of the note and subordinate the note to other debt issued by senior lenders. since a portion of the transaction consideration is in the form of a non-contingent seller promissory note and the note is subordinated to debt issued by senior lenders, there is the risk that we may not receive the amount owed to us (including accrued interest), including in the time frame contemplated, under the note. in the event that the promissory note is not repaid on the terms we contemplate, any collection or restructuring efforts we undertake 34 table of contents may be costly and require significant time and attention from our management and there is no guarantee that we will be able to recover the amounts owed to us in full. our failure to pay quarterly dividends to our stockholders or the failure to meet our commitments to return capital to our stockholders could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. our ability to pay quarterly dividends or achieve our intended capital return policy will be subject to, among other things, our financial position and results of operations, available cash and cash flow, capital and debt service requirements, use of cash for acquisitions and other factors. any failure to pay or increase future dividends as announced, or a reduction or discontinuation of quarterly dividends could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. in november 2018, we announced that for 2019, we intend to target a capital return policy, inclusive of share repurchases and dividends, of approximately 75% of annual free cash flow. free cash flow is calculated as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures. in january 2018, we announced that our board of directors approved a new $2.0 billion buyback authorization, which replaced our prior authorization. in february 2018, as a part of our new buyback authorization, we entered into a $750.0 million accelerated share repurchase program, or asr, which was completed in the third quarter of 2018, and our board of directors declared an increase to our quarterly cash dividend to $0.18 per share, which reflects an increase of 80% compared to previous quarterly dividends. in january 2019, our board of directors declared an increase to our quarterly cash dividend to $0.19 per share. any failure to meet our commitments to return capital to our stockholders could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. the investment of our cash balance and our investments in government and corporate debt securities and equity securities are subject to risks, which may cause losses and affect the liquidity of these investments. at december 31, 2018 , we had $2,489.0 million in cash and cash equivalents and $1,269.1 million in short-and long-term investments. we have invested these amounts primarily in asset-backed securities, certificates of deposit, commercial paper, corporate debt securities, foreign government debt securities, money market funds, mutual funds, time deposits, u.s. government agency securities, and u.s. government securities. we also have $90.4 million in other long-term assets for our investments in privately-held companies. certain of our investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market, sovereign debt, and interest rate risks. our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates or if the decline in fair value of our publicly traded debt or equity investments is judged to be other-than-temporary. these market risks associated with our investment portfolio may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations. our amended and restated bylaws provide that the court of chancery of the state of delaware will be the sole and exclusive forum for substantially all disputes between us and our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers, or employees. our amended and restated bylaws provide that, unless we consent to the selection of an alternative forum, the court of chancery of the state of delaware (or if the court of chancery does not have jurisdiction, the u.s. district court for the district of delaware) is the sole and exclusive forum for (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf; (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of fiduciary duty owed by any of our current or former directors, officers, or other employees to us or to our stockholders; (iii) any action asserting a claim arising pursuant to the delaware general corporation law, our restated certificate of incorporation, or our bylaws; (iv) any action or proceeding asserting a claim as to which delaware general corporation law confers jurisdiction on the court of chancery or (v) any action asserting a claim governed by the internal affairs doctrine. the exclusive forum provisions in our bylaws may limit a stockholder's ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our current or former directors, officers, or other employees, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our current or former directors, officers, and other employees. alternatively, if a court were to find the exclusive forum provisions contained in our bylaws to be inapplicable or unenforceable in an action, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such action in other jurisdictions, which could have a material and adverse impact on our business. uninsured losses could harm our operating results. we self-insure against many business risks and expenses, such as intellectual property litigation, cybersecurity and our medical benefit programs, where we believe we can adequately self-insure against the anticipated exposure and risk or where insurance is either not deemed cost-effective or is not available. we also maintain a program of insurance coverage for various types of property, casualty, and other risks. we place our insurance coverage with various carriers in numerous jurisdictions. the types and amounts of insurance that we obtain vary from time to time and from location to location, depending on availability, cost, and our decisions with respect to risk retention. the policies are subject to deductibles, policy limits, and exclusions that result in our retention of a level of risk on a self-insurance basis. in addition, our insurance coverage may not be adequate to compensate us 35 table of contents for all losses or failures that may occur. losses not covered by insurance could be substantial and unpredictable and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. our stock price may fluctuate. historically, our common stock has experienced substantial price volatility, particularly as a result of variations between our actual financial results and the published expectations of analysts and as a result of announcements by our competitors and us. furthermore, speculation in the press or investment community about our strategic position, financial condition, results of operations, business, security of our products, or significant transactions can cause changes in our stock price. in addition, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many technology companies in particular and that have often been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. from time to time, economic weakness has contributed to extreme price and volume fluctuations in global stock markets that have also reduced the market price of many technology company stocks, including ours. these factors, as well as general economic and political conditions and the announcement of proposed and completed acquisitions or other significant transactions, or any difficulties associated with such transactions, by us or our current or potential competitors, may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock in the future. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 59 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk the primary objectives of our investment activities are, in order of priority, to preserve principal, maintain liquidity, and maximize yield. the value of our investments is subject to market price volatility. to minimize this risk, we maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities, which includes asset-backed securities, certificates of deposit, commercial paper, corporate debt securities, foreign government debt securities, money market funds, mutual funds, time deposits, u.s. government agency securities, and u.s. government securities. at any time, a rise in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our investment portfolio. conversely, a decline in interest rates could have a material impact on interest income from our investment portfolio. we do not currently hedge these interest rate exposures. the following tables present hypothetical changes in fair value of our available-for-sale fixed income securities held as of december 31, 2018 and 2017 that are sensitive to changes in interest rates assuming immediate parallel shifts in the yield curve of 50 basis points, or bps, 100 bps and 150 bps, which are representative of the historical movements in the federal funds rate (in millions): - 150 bps - 100 bps - 50 bps fair value as of december 31, 2018 + 50 bps + 100 bps + 150 bps available-for-sale fixed income securities $ 2,210.6 $ 2,208.0 $ 2,205.4 $ 2,202.8 $ 2,200.3 $ 2,197.7 $ 2,195.1 - 150 bps - 100 bps - 50 bps fair value as of december 31, 2017 + 50 bps + 100 bps + 150 bps available-for-sale fixed income securities $ 2,387.8 $ 2,380.4 $ 2,372.9 $ 2,365.5 $ 2,358.0 $ 2,350.6 $ 2,343.2 foreign currency risk and foreign exchange forward contracts periodically, we use derivatives to hedge against fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. we do not enter into derivatives for speculative or trading purposes. we use foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate variability in gains and losses generated from the re-measurement of certain monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies. these foreign exchange forward contracts typically have maturities of approximately three months. our sales and costs of product revenues are primarily denominated in u.s. dollars. our cost of service revenue and operating expenses are denominated in u.s. dollars as well as other foreign currencies, including the british pound, chinese yuan, euro, and the indian rupee. approximately 78% of such costs and operating expenses are denominated in u.s. dollars. periodically, we use foreign currency forward and/or option contracts to hedge certain forecasted foreign currency transactions to reduce variability in cost of service revenue and operating expenses caused by non-u.s. dollar denominated operating expense and costs. in designing a specific hedging approach, we consider several factors, including offsetting exposures, significance of exposures, costs associated with entering into a particular hedge instrument, and potential effectiveness of the hedge. these derivatives are designated as cash flow hedges and have maturities of seventeen months or less. the change in operating expenses including cost of service revenue, research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses, due to foreign currency fluctuations was a reduction to operating expenses of 0.1% for both years ended december 31, 2018 and december 31, 2017 , respectively. see note 5, derivative instruments , in notes to consolidated financial statements in item 8 of part ii of this report for further discussion of our derivative and hedging activity. we have performed a sensitivity analysis as of december 31, 2018 and as of december 31, 2017 , using a modeling technique that measures the change in the amount of non-u.s. dollar cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities arising from a hypothetical 10% movement in the levels of foreign currency exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar, with all other variables held constant. the foreign currency exchange rates we used were based on market rates in effect on december 31, 2018 and december 31, 2017 , respectively. the sensitivity analysis indicated that a hypothetical 10% movement in foreign currency exchange rates would change the amount of cash, cash equivalents, and investments we would report in u.s. dollars as of december 31, 2018 and december 31, 2017 by less than 1.1% and by less than 1%, respectively. 59 table of contents equity price risk we have also invested in privately-held companies. depending on the nature of these investments, some can be carried at cost, adjusted for changes from observable transactions for identical or similar investments of the same issuer, less impairment, and others can be carried at fair value. the carrying values of our investments in privately-held companies were $90.4 million and $83.0 million (*) as of december 31, 2018 and december 31, 2017 , respectively. the privately-held companies in which we invest can still be considered in the startup or development stages. these investments are inherently risky because the markets for the technologies or products these companies are developing are typically in the early stages and may never materialize. we could lose our entire investment in these companies. our evaluation of investments in privately-held companies is based on the fundamentals of the businesses invested in, including, among other factors, the nature of their technologies and potential for financial return. _______________________________ (*) prior to january 1, 2018, certain investments in privately-held companies were accounted for at cost less impairment. realized gains or losses from sales or impairments were recognized in the consolidated statements of operations. 60 table of contentsrisk factors 16 risk factors factors that may affect future results investments in our securities involve significant risks. even small changes in investor expectations for our future growth and earnings, whether as a result of actual or rumored financial or operating results, changes in the mix of the products and services sold, acquisitions, industry changes, or other factors, could trigger, and have triggered in the past, significant fluctuations in the market price of our common stock. investors in our securities should carefully consider all of the relevant factors disclosed by us, including, but not limited to, the following factors, that could affect our business, operating results, and stock price. our quarterly results are unpredictable and subject to substantial fluctuations; as a result, we may fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. our revenues and operating results may vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control and any of which may cause our stock price to fluctuate. the factors that may cause our quarterly results to vary quarter by quarter and be unpredictable include, but are not limited to: unpredictable ordering patterns and limited or reduced visibility into our customers' spending plans and associated revenue; changes in customer mix; changes in the demand for our products and services; changes in the mix of products and services sold; changes in the mix of geographies in which our products and services are sold; changing market and economic conditions, including the impact of tariffs; current and potential customer, partner and supplier consolidation and concentration; price and product competition; long sales, qualification and implementation cycles; success in new and evolving markets and emerging technologies; ineffective legal protection of our intellectual property rights in certain countries; how well we execute on our strategy and operating plans and the impact of changes in our business model that could result in significant restructuring charges; ability of our customers, channel partners, contract manufacturers and suppliers to purchase, market, sell, manufacture or supply our products (or components of our products) and services; financial stability of our customers, including the solvency of private sector customers and statutory authority for government customers to purchase goods and services; our ability to achieve targeted cost reductions; changes in tax laws or accounting rules, or interpretations thereof; changes in the amount and frequency of share repurchases or dividends; regional economic and political conditions; seasonality; and other factors beyond our control such as the effects of climate change, natural disasters, and pandemics as well as the fear of exposure to a widespread health epidemic, such as the outbreak of a respiratory illness caused by the 2019 novel coronavirus first identified in wuhan, hubei province, china and recently named by the world health organization (who) as ("covid-19") , resulting in the who declaring a global emergency on january 30, 2020. for example, we, and many companies in our industry, experience adverse seasonal fluctuations in customer spending, particularly in the first quarter. in addition, while we may have backlog orders for products that have not shipped, we believe that our backlog may not be a reliable indicator of future operating results for a number of reasons, including, but not limited to, project delays, changes in project scope and the fact that our customers may cancel purchase orders or change delivery schedules without significant penalty. furthermore, market trends, competitive pressures, commoditization of products, rebates and discounting, increased component, manufacturing or logistics costs, issues with product or service quality (including the quality of our components), regulatory impacts, tariffs and other factors may result in reductions in revenue or pressure on gross margins in a given period, which may necessitate adjustments to our operations. such adjustments may be difficult or impossible to execute in the short or medium term. as a result of the factors described above, as well as other variables affecting our operating results, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of operating results are not necessarily a good indication of what our future performance will be. in some prior periods, our operating results have been below our guidance, our long-term financial model or the expectations of securities 16 table of contents analysts or investors, which has at times coincided with a decline in the price of our common stock. this may happen again in the future, in which case the price of our common stock may decline. such a decline could also occur, and has occurred in the past, even when we have met our publicly stated revenues and/or earnings guidance. we expect our gross margins and operating margins to vary over time. we expect our product and service gross margins to vary, both in the near-term and in the long-term, and may be adversely affected in the future by numerous factors, some of which have occurred and may occur in the future, including customer, vertical, product and geographic mix shifts, an increase or decrease in our software sales or services we provide, increased price competition in one or more of the markets in which we compete, changes in the actions of our competitors or their pricing strategies, which may be difficult to predict and respond to, modifications to our pricing strategy in order to gain footprint in certain markets or with certain customers, currency fluctuations that impact our costs or the cost of our products and services to our customers, increases in material, labor, logistics, warranty costs, or inventory carrying costs, excess product component or obsolescence charges from our contract manufacturers, issues with manufacturing or component availability, quality or efficiencies, increased costs due to changes in component pricing or charges incurred due to inaccurately forecasting product demand, warranty related issues, the impact of tariffs, or our introduction of new products and enhancements or entry into new markets with different pricing and cost structures. for example, in fiscal year 2019, our gross margin was relatively flat as compared to fiscal year 2018. in fiscal year 2018, our margins decreased as compared to fiscal year 2017, primarily due to lower net revenues and product mix. in fiscal year 2017, our margins decreased as compared to fiscal year 2016, primarily due to lower product net revenues and product mix, resulting from the year-over-year decline in routing revenues, our customers' architectural shifts, and higher costs of certain memory components. failure to sustain or improve our gross margins reduces our profitability and may have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. further, while we will continue to remain diligent in our long-term financial objective to increase revenue and operating margins and manage our operating expenses as a percentage of revenue, we expect that our margins will vary with our ability to achieve these goals. we can provide no assurance that we will be able to achieve all or any of the goals of these plans or meet our announced expectations, in whole or in part, or that our plans will have the intended effect of improving our margins on the expected timeline, or at all. a limited number of our customers comprise a material portion of our revenues and any changes in the way they purchase products and services from us could affect our business. in addition, there is an ongoing trend toward consolidation in the industry in which our customers and partners operate. any decrease in revenues from our customers or partners could have an adverse effect on our net revenues and operating results. a material portion of our net revenues, across each customer vertical, depends on sales to a limited number of customers and distribution partners. changes in the business requirements or focus, vendor selection, project prioritization, financial prospects, capital resources, and expenditures, or purchasing behavior (including product mix purchased or delays in deployment) of our key customers could significantly decrease our sales to such customers or could lead to delays or cancellations of planned purchases of our products or services, which increases the risk of quarterly fluctuations in our revenues and operating results. any of these factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition, in recent years, there has been movement towards consolidation in the telecommunications industry (for example, centurylink, inc.'s acquisition of level 3 communications, inc., vodafone india's acquisition of idea cellular ltd. and t-mobile us, inc.'s proposed acquisition of sprint corp., which was recently approved by the u.s. justice department.) and that consolidation trend has continued. certain telecommunications companies have also moved towards vertical consolidation through acquisitions of media and content companies, such as verizon's acquisition of yahoo, at&amp;t's acquisition of time warner, and comcast's acquisition of sky. if our customers or partners are parties to consolidation transactions they may delay, suspend or indefinitely reduce or cancel their purchases of our products or other direct or indirect unforeseen consequences could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. fluctuating economic conditions make it difficult to predict revenues and gross margin for a particular period and a shortfall in revenues or increase in costs of production may harm our operating results. our revenues and gross margin depend significantly on general economic conditions and the demand for products in the markets in which we compete. economic weakness or uncertainty, customer financial difficulties, and constrained spending on network expansion and enterprise infrastructure have in the past resulted in, and may in the future result in, decreased revenues and earnings. such factors could make it difficult to accurately forecast revenues and operating results and could negatively affect our ability to provide accurate forecasts to our contract manufacturers and manage our contract manufacturer relationships and other expenses. in addition, economic instability or uncertainty, as well as continued turmoil in the geopolitical environment in many parts of the 17 table of contents world, have, and may continue to, put pressure on economic conditions, which has led and could lead, to reduced demand for our products, to delays or reductions in network expansions or infrastructure projects, and/or higher costs of production. more generally-speaking, economic weakness may also lead to longer collection cycles for payments due from our customers, an increase in customer bad debt, restructuring initiatives and associated expenses, and impairment of investments. furthermore, instability in the global markets may adversely impact the ability of our customers to adequately fund their expected expenditures, which could lead to delays or cancellations of planned purchases of our products or services. our operating expenses are largely based on anticipated revenue trends and a high percentage of our expenses is, and will continue to be, fixed in the short and medium term. uncertainty about future economic conditions also makes it difficult to forecast operating results and to make decisions about future investments. future or continued economic weakness, failure of our customers and markets to recover from such weakness, customer financial difficulties, increases in costs of production, and reductions in spending on network maintenance and expansion could result in price concessions in certain markets or have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and consequently on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our success depends upon our ability to effectively plan and manage our resources and restructure our business through rapidly fluctuating economic and market conditions, and such actions may have an adverse effect on our financial and operating results. our ability to successfully offer our products and services in a rapidly evolving market requires an effective planning, forecasting, and management process to enable us to effectively scale and adjust our business and business models in response to fluctuating market opportunities and conditions. from time to time, we have increased investment in our business by, for example, increasing headcount, acquiring companies, and increasing our investment in r&amp;d, sales and marketing, and other parts of our business. conversely, in 2017, 2018, and 2019, we initiated restructuring plans to realign our workforce as a result of organizational and leadership changes, align our execution priorities, increase operational efficiencies, and to consolidate facilities which resulted in restructuring charges in each of these years. some of our expenses related to such efforts are fixed costs that cannot be rapidly or easily adjusted in response to fluctuations in our business or numbers of employees. rapid changes in the size, alignment or organization of our workforce, including sales account coverage, could adversely affect our ability to develop and deliver products and services as planned or impair our ability to realize our current or future business and financial objectives. our ability to achieve the anticipated cost savings and other benefits from our restructuring initiatives within the expected time frame is subject to many estimates and assumptions, which are subject to significant economic, competitive and other uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. if these estimates and assumptions are incorrect, if we are unsuccessful at implementing changes, or if other unforeseen events occur, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. we face intense competition that could reduce our revenues and adversely affect our business and financial results. competition is intense in the markets that we serve. the routing and switching markets have historically been dominated by cisco with competition coming from other companies such as nokia, arista. and huawei. in the security market, we face intense competition from cisco and palo alto networks, as well as companies such as check point, and fortinet. further, a number of other small public and private companies have products or have announced plans for new products to address the same challenges and markets that our products address. in addition, actual or speculated consolidation among competitors, or the acquisition by, or of, our partners and/or resellers by competitors can increase the competitive pressures faced by us as customers may delay spending decisions or not purchase our products at all. a number of our competitors have substantially greater resources and can offer a wider range of products and services for the overall network equipment market than we do. in addition, some of our competitors have become more integrated, including through consolidation and vertical integration, and offer a broader range of products and services, which could make their solutions more attractive to our customers. many of our competitors sell networking products as bundled solutions with other it products, such as computer and storage systems. if we are unable to compete successfully against existing and future competitors on the basis of product offerings or price, we could experience a loss in market share and revenues and/or be required to reduce prices, which could reduce our gross margins, and which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our partners and resellers generally sell or resell competing products on a non-exclusive basis and consolidation could delay spending or require us to increase discounts to compete, which could also adversely affect our business. 18 table of contents the long sales and implementation cycles for our products, as well as our expectation that some customers will sporadically place large orders with short lead times, may cause our revenues and operating results to vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter. a customer's decision to purchase certain of our products, particularly new products, involves a significant commitment of its resources and a lengthy evaluation and product qualification process. as a result, the sales cycle may be lengthy. in particular, customers making critical decisions regarding the design and implementation of large network deployments may engage in very lengthy procurement processes that may delay or impact expected future orders. throughout the sales cycle, we may spend considerable time educating and providing information to prospective customers regarding the use and benefits of our products. even after making the decision to purchase, customers may deploy our products slowly and deliberately. timing of deployment can vary widely and depends on the skill set of the customer, the size of the network deployment, the complexity of the customer's network environment, and the degree of hardware and operating system configuration necessary to deploy the products. customers with large networks usually expand their networks in large increments on a periodic basis. accordingly, we may receive purchase orders for significant dollar amounts on an irregular basis. these long cycles, as well as our expectation that customers will tend to sporadically place large orders with short lead times, both of which may be exacerbated by the impact of global economic weakness, may cause revenues and operating results to vary significantly and unexpectedly from quarter-to-quarter. the timing of product orders and deliveries and/or our reliance on revenue from sales of certain software or subscriptions and professional, support and maintenance services may cause us to recognize revenue in a different period than the one in which a transaction takes place. due to the cost, complexity and custom nature of configurations required by our customers, we generally build our network equipment products as orders are received. the volume of orders received late in any given fiscal quarter remains unpredictable. if orders for certain products are received late in any quarter, we may not be able to recognize revenue for these orders in the same period, which could adversely affect our ability to meet our expected revenues for such quarter. similarly, if we were to take actions to encourage customers to place orders or accept deliveries earlier than anticipated, our ability to meet our expected revenues in future quarters could be adversely affected. in addition, services revenue accounts for a significant portion of our revenue, comprising 35% , 33% , and 31% of total revenue in fiscal year 2019, 2018, and 2017, respectively. sales of new or renewal professional services, support and maintenance contracts may decline and/or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including end-customers' level of satisfaction with our products and services, the prices of our products and services or those offered by our competitors, and reductions in our end-customers' spending levels. we recognize professional services as services are delivered and support, and maintenance revenue periodically over the term of the relevant service period. the introduction of new software products and services is part of our intended strategy to expand our software business, and certain software revenues may be recognized periodically over the term of the relevant use period or subscription period. as a result, certain software, subscription and support and maintenance revenue we report each fiscal quarter is derived from the recognition of deferred revenue from contracts entered into during previous fiscal quarters. consequently, any fluctuation in such new or renewed contracts in any one fiscal quarter may not be fully or immediately reflected in revenue and could negatively affect our revenue in future fiscal quarters. accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in new or renewed sales of certain software products, subscriptions or support and maintenance is not reflected in full in our operating results until future periods. also, it is difficult for us to rapidly increase such software or services revenue through additional sales in any period, as revenue from those software, subscription and support and maintenance contracts must be recognized over the applicable period. additionally, we determine our operating expenses based on our anticipated revenues and technology roadmap and a high percentage of our expenses are fixed in the short and medium term. as a result, a failure or delay in generating or recognizing revenue could cause significant variations in our operating results and operating margin from quarter-to-quarter. we sell our products to customers that use those products to build networks and ip infrastructure, and if the demand for network and ip systems does not continue to grow, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. a substantial portion of our business and revenues depends on the growth of secure ip infrastructure and customers that depend on the continued growth of ip services to deploy our products in their networks and ip infrastructures. as a result of changes in the economy, capital spending or the building of network capacity in excess of demand (all of which, have in the past, particularly affected telecommunications service providers), spending on ip infrastructure can vary, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition, a number of our existing customers are evaluating the build-out of their next generation networks. during the decision-making period when our customers are determining the design 19 table of contents of those networks and the selection of the software and equipment they will use in those networks, such customers may greatly reduce or suspend their spending on secure ip infrastructure. any reduction or suspension of spending on ip infrastructure is difficult to predict, and can make it more difficult to accurately predict revenues from customers, can cause fluctuations in the level of spending by customers and, even where our products are ultimately selected, can have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. if we do not successfully anticipate technological shifts, market needs and opportunities, and develop products, product enhancements and business strategies that meet those technological shifts, needs and opportunities, or if those products are not made available or strategies are not executed in a timely manner or do not gain market acceptance, we may not be able to compete effectively and our ability to generate revenues will suffer. the markets for our products are characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions, changes in customer requirements, continuous pricing pressures and a constantly evolving industry. we may not be able to anticipate future technological shifts, market needs and opportunities or be able to develop new products, product enhancements or business strategies to meet such technological shifts, needs or opportunities in a timely manner or at all. for example, the move from traditional wan infrastructures towards software-defined wan has been receiving considerable attention. in our view, it will take several years to see the full impact of software-defined wan, and we believe the successful products and solutions in this market will combine hardware and software elements. if we fail to anticipate market requirements or opportunities or fail to develop and introduce new products, product enhancements or business strategies to meet those requirements or opportunities in a timely manner, it could cause us to lose customers, and such failure could substantially decrease or delay market acceptance and sales of our present and future products and services, which would significantly harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition, if we invest time, energy and resources in developing products for a market that does not develop, it could likewise significantly harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. even if we are able to anticipate, develop, and commercially introduce new products, enhancements or business strategies, there can be no assurance that new products, enhancements or business strategies will achieve widespread market acceptance. in recent years, we have announced a number of new products and enhancements to our hardware and software products across routing, switching and security. the success of our new products depends on several factors, including, but not limited to, component costs, timely completion and introduction of these products, prompt resolution of any defects or bugs in these products, our ability to support these products, differentiation of new products from those of our competitors and market acceptance of these products. the introduction of new software products is part of our intended strategy to expand our software business. we have also begun to disaggregate certain software from certain hardware products, such that customers would be able to purchase or license our hardware and software products independently, which we expect could in time enable our hardware to be deployed with third- party networking applications and services and our software to be used with third-party hardware. the success of our strategy to expand our software business, including our strategy to disaggregate software from certain hardware products, is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including: the additional development efforts and costs required to create new software products and/or to make our disaggregated products compatible with multiple technologies; the possibility that our new software products or disaggregated products may not achieve widespread customer adoption; the possibility that our strategy could erode our revenue and gross margins; the impact on our financial results of longer periods of revenue recognition for certain types of software products and changes in tax treatment associated with software sales; the additional costs associated with regulatory compliance and changes we need to make to our distribution chain in connection with increased software sales; the ability of our disaggregated hardware and software products to operate independently and/or to integrate with current and future third-party products; and issues with third-party technologies used with our disaggregated products may be attributed to us. if any of our new products or business strategies do not gain market acceptance or meet our expectations for growth, our ability to meet future financial targets may be adversely affected and our competitive position and our business and financial results could be harmed. 20 table of contents we are dependent on contract manufacturers and original design manufacturers with whom we do not have long-term supply contracts, and changes to or disruptions in those relationships or manufacturing processes, expected or unexpected, may result in delays that could cause us to lose revenues and damage our customer relationships. we depend on independent contract manufacturers and original design manufacturers (each of which is a third-party manufacturer for numerous companies) to manufacture our products. although we have contracts with our contract manufacturers and original design manufacturers, these contracts do not require them to manufacture our products on a long-term basis in any specific quantity or at any specific price. in addition, it is time-consuming and costly to qualify and implement additional contract manufacturer and original design manufacturer relationships. therefore, if we fail to effectively manage our contract manufacturer and original design manufacturer relationships, which could include failing to provide accurate forecasts of our requirements, or if one or more of them experiences delays, disruptions, or quality control problems in their manufacturing operations, or if we had to change or add additional contract manufacturers, original design manufacturers, or contract manufacturing sites, our ability to ship products to our customers could be delayed. we have experienced in the past and may experience in the future an increase in the expected time required to manufacture our products or ship products. such delays could result in supply shortfalls that damage our ability to meet customer demand for those products and could cause our customers to purchase alternative products from our competitors. also, the addition of manufacturing locations or contract manufacturers, original design manufacturers, or the introduction of new products by us would increase the complexity of our supply chain management. moreover, a significant portion of our manufacturing is performed in china and other foreign countries and is therefore subject to risks associated with doing business outside of the united states, including import tariffs, disruptions to our supply chain, pandemics, regional climate-related events, or regional conflicts. for example, in 2018, the united states imposed a tariff on certain networking products imported from china and in 2019, the united states increased the tariffs on these networking products and expanded the list of products subject to the tariff. certain products that we import into and sell within the united states are included on the list of products subject to these tariffs. we have incurred increased costs due to our efforts to attempt to mitigate the impact of the tariffs. in some cases, the tariffs have been passed on and may continue to be passed on to customers resulting in higher prices for our customers, which may have reduced, or may continue to reduce, customer demand for our products or increased cost of goods sold. similarly, many of the products that we source from china are transported by air cargo from hong kong, which has experienced recent political demonstrations that have resulted in cancellations or delays in flights in and out of hong kong. if these demonstrations and their impact on air shipments continue, we could experience delays in product deliveries or be required to change our shipping practices. in addition, increased costs of production or delays in production caused by any relocation of contract manufacturing facilities or delays in product deliveries could impact the global competitiveness of our products. each of these factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. further, the chinese government has recently imposed certain restrictions on the movement of people and goods, including the temporary closure of factories, businesses, schools, and public spaces, to limit the spread of covid-19 in and around wuhan and may extend these restrictions to other affected regions. while our products are not manufactured in wuhan, any delay in production or delivery of our products or components made in china by our suppliers due to an extended closure of our supplier's plants or other restrictions imposed to limit the spread of covid-19 could adversely impact our business. in addition, a number of countries have either closed their borders completely or implemented immigration restrictions for visitors traveling from china. we are dependent on sole source and limited source suppliers, including for key components, which makes us susceptible to shortages, quality issues or price fluctuations in our supply chain, and we may face increased challenges in supply chain management in the future. we rely on single or limited sources for many of our components. during periods of high demand for electronic products, component shortages are possible, and the predictability of the availability of such components may be limited. for example, we have experienced industry-wide supply constraints related to power management components. in addition, some components used in our networking solutions have in the past and may in the future experience extended lead times and higher pricing, given the demand in the market. any future spike in growth in our business, the use of certain components we share in common with other companies, in it spending or the economy in general, is likely to create greater short-term pressures on us and our suppliers to accurately forecast overall component demand and to establish optimal component inventories. if shortages or delays persist, we may not be able to secure enough components at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build and deliver products in a timely manner, and our revenues, gross margins and customer relationships could suffer. additionally, if certain components that we receive from our suppliers have defects or other quality issues, we may have to replace or repair such components, and we could be subject to claims based on warranty, product liability, epidemic or delivery failures that could lead to significant expenses. we maintain product liability insurance, but there is no guarantee that such insurance will be available or adequate to protect against all such claims. we have experienced, and from time-to-time may experience, component shortages or quality issues that resulted, or could result, in delays of product shipments, revenue charges that impact our gross margins, and/or warranty or other claims or costs. we also currently purchase numerous key components, including asics and other semiconductor chips, from single or limited sources and many of our component suppliers are concentrated in china and korea. in addition, there has been consolidation 21 table of contents among certain suppliers of our components. for example, globalfoundries acquired ibm's semiconductor manufacturing business, avago technologies limited acquired broadcom corporation, intel corporation acquired altera corporation ("altera"), and cisco has announced its intent to acquire acacia communications, inc. consolidation among suppliers can result in the reduction of the number of independent suppliers of components available to us, which could negatively impact our ability to access certain component parts or the prices we have to pay for such parts which may impact our gross margins. in addition, our suppliers may determine not to continue a business relationship with us for other reasons that may be beyond our control or may seek to impose significant price increases. any disruptions to our supply chain or significant increase in components cost could decrease our sales, earnings and liquidity or otherwise adversely affect our business and result in increased costs. such a disruption could occur as a result of any number of events, including, but not limited to, an extended closure of or any slowdown at our supplier's plants or shipping delays due to efforts to limit the spread of covid-19, increases in wages that drive up prices, the imposition of regulations, quotas or embargoes on components, labor stoppages, transportation failures affecting the supply chain and shipment of materials and finished goods, third-party interference in the integrity of the products sourced through the supply chain, the unavailability of raw materials, severe weather conditions, adverse effects of climate change, natural disasters, civil unrest, military conflicts, geopolitical developments, war or terrorism and disruptions in utility and other services. the development of alternate sources for components is time-consuming, difficult, and costly. in addition, the lead times associated with certain components are lengthy and preclude rapid changes in quantities and delivery schedules. also, long-term supply and maintenance obligations to customers increase the duration for which specific components are required, which may further increase the risk of component shortages or the cost of carrying inventory. in the event of a component shortage, supply interruption or significant price increase from these suppliers, we may not be able to develop alternate or second sources in a timely manner. if we are unable to buy these components in quantities sufficient to meet our requirements on a timely basis, we will not be able to deliver products and services to our customers, which would seriously affect present and future sales, which would, in turn, adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition, the development, licensing, or acquisition of new products in the future may increase the complexity of supply chain management. failure to effectively manage the supply of components and products would adversely affect our business. if we fail to accurately predict our manufacturing requirements, we could incur additional costs or experience manufacturing delays, which would harm our business. we provide demand forecasts for our products to our contract manufacturers and original design manufacturers, who order components and plan capacity based on these forecasts. if we overestimate our requirements, our original design or contract manufacturers may assess charges, or we may have liabilities for excess inventory, each of which could negatively affect our gross margins. for example, in certain prior quarters, our gross margins were reduced as a result of an inventory charge resulting from inventory we held in excess of forecasted demand. in addition, some optical modules we use are experiencing faster product transitions than our other products, which increases the risk that we could have excess inventory of those modules. conversely, lead times for required materials and components vary significantly and depend on factors such as the specific supplier, contract terms, and the demand for each component at a given time. given that our contract manufacturers are third-party manufacturers for numerous other companies, if we underestimate our requirements, as we have in certain prior quarters with respect to certain products, our contract manufacturers may have inadequate time, materials, and/or components required to produce our products. this could increase costs or delay or interrupt manufacturing of our products, resulting in delays in shipments and deferral or loss of revenues and could negatively impact customer satisfaction. system security risks, data protection breaches, and cyber-attacks could compromise our and our customers' proprietary information, disrupt our internal operations and harm public perception of our products, which could cause our business and reputation to suffer and adversely affect our stock price. in the ordinary course of business, we store sensitive data, including intellectual property, personal data, our proprietary business information and that of our employees, contractors, customers, suppliers and business partners on our networks. in addition, we store sensitive data through cloud-based services that may be hosted by third parties and in data center infrastructure maintained by third parties. the secure maintenance of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy. the growing cyber risk environment means that individuals, companies, and organizations of all sizes, including juniper, have been and are increasingly subject to attacks and attempted intrusions, including recent attempts, on their and their vendors' networks and systems by a wide range of actors, including but not limited to nation states, criminal enterprises, and terrorist organizations, on an ongoing and regular basis. despite our security measures, and those of our third-party vendors, our information technology and infrastructure has experienced breaches and may be subject or vulnerable in the future to breaches or attacks by computer programmers, hackers or sophisticated nation-state and nation-state supported actors or breaches due to employee error or wrongful conduct, malfeasance, or other disruptions. if any breach or attack compromises our networks or those of our vendors', creates system disruptions or slowdowns or exploits security vulnerabilities of our products, the information stored on our networks or those of our customers, 22 table of contents suppliers or business partners could be accessed and modified, publicly disclosed, lost, destroyed or stolen, and we may be subject to liability to our customers, suppliers, business partners and others, including regulatory entities, and suffer reputational and financial harm. in addition, hardware, components and software (including operating system software) and applications that we produce or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including "bugs", vulnerabilities and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of our networks, or expose us or our products to cyber attacks, or be exploited to gain unauthorized access to our or our customers' systems or information we maintain. this can be true even for legacy products that have been determined to have reached an end of life engineering status but will continue to operate for a limited amount of time. furthermore, third parties may attempt to exfiltrate data through the introduction into the information and communications technology supply chain of malicious products and components that are designed to defeat or circumvent encryption and other cybersecurity measures, and if successful, such actions could diminish customer trust in our products, harm our business reputation, and adversely affect our business and financial condition. when vulnerabilities are discovered, we evaluate the risk, apply patches or take other remediation actions and notify customers, business partners, and suppliers as appropriate. all of this requires significant resources and time and attention from management and our employees. as a result of any actual or perceived breach of network security that occurs in our network or in the network of a customer of our products, regardless of whether the breach is attributable to our products, the market perception of the effectiveness of our products and our overall reputation could be harmed. as a large, well known provider of networking products, cyber attackers regularly and specifically target our products or attempt to imitate us or our products in order to compromise a network. because the techniques used by attackers, many of whom are highly sophisticated and well-funded, to access or sabotage networks change frequently and generally are not recognized until after they are used, we may be unable to anticipate or immediately detect these techniques or the vulnerabilities they have caused. this could impede our sales, manufacturing, distribution or other critical functions, which could have an adverse impact on our financial results. the economic costs to us to eliminate or alleviate cyber or other security problems, bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software systems and security vulnerabilities could be significant and may be difficult to anticipate or measure, because the damage may differ based on the identity and motive of the attacker, which are often difficult to pinpoint. additionally, we could be subject to regulatory investigations, potential fines and litigation in connection with a security breach or related issue and be liable to third parties for these types of breaches. we rely on value-added and other resellers, as well as distribution partners, to sell our products, and disruptions to, or our failure to effectively develop and manage, our distribution channel and the processes and procedures that support it could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues from the sale of our products. our future success is highly dependent upon establishing and maintaining successful relationships with a variety of value-added and other reseller and distribution partners, including our worldwide strategic partners such as ericsson, ibm, nippon telegraph and telephone corporation and nec corporation. the majority of our revenues are derived through value-added resellers and distributors, most of which also sell our competitors' products, and some of which sell their own competing products. our revenues depend in part on the performance of these partners. the loss of or reduction in sales to our resellers or distributors could materially reduce our revenues. our competitors may in some cases be effective in leveraging their market share positions or in providing incentives to current or potential resellers and distributors to favor their products or to prevent or reduce sales of our products. if we fail to develop and maintain relationships with our partners, fail to develop new relationships with value-added resellers and distributors in new markets, fail to expand the number of distributors and resellers in existing markets, fail to manage, train or motivate existing value-added resellers and distributors effectively, determine that we cannot continue to do business with these partners for any reason or if these partners are not successful in their sales efforts, sales of our products may decrease, and our business, financial condition, and results of operations would suffer. in addition, we recognize a portion of our revenues at the time we sell products to our distributors. if these sales are made based on inaccurate or untimely information, the amount or timing of our revenues could be adversely impacted. further, our distributors may increase orders during periods of product shortages, cancel orders if their inventory is too high, or delay orders in anticipation of new products. they also may adjust their orders in response to the supply of our products and the products of our competitors that are available to them, and in response to seasonal fluctuations in end-user demand. we are also vulnerable to third parties who illegally distribute or sell counterfeit, stolen or unfit versions of our products, which has happened in the past and could happen in the future. such sales could have a negative impact on our reputation and business. further, in order to develop and expand our distribution channel, we must continue to offer attractive channel programs to potential partners and scale and improve our processes and procedures that support the channel. as a result, our programs, processes and procedures may become increasingly complex and inherently difficult to manage. we have previously entered into oem agreements 23 table of contents with partners pursuant to which they rebrand and resell our products as part of their product portfolios. these types of relationships are complex and require additional processes and procedures that may be challenging and costly to implement, maintain and manage. our failure to successfully manage and develop our distribution channel and the programs, processes and procedures that support it could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues from the sale of our products. we also depend on our global channel partners to comply with applicable legal and regulatory requirements. to the extent that they fail to do so, that could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. our ability to process orders and ship products in a timely manner is dependent in part on our business systems and performance of the systems and processes of third parties as well as the interfaces between our systems and the systems of such third parties. dependence on outsourced information technology and other administrative functions may impair our ability to operate effectively. some of our business processes depend upon our it systems, the systems and processes of third parties, and the interfaces between the two. for example, on december 31, 2018, we entered into a master services agreement and certain statements of work with ibm pursuant to which we have outsourced significant portions of our it and other administrative functions. these cloud providers, third party providers, and off-site facilities are vulnerable to damage, interruption, including performance problems from earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures, equipment failure, adverse events caused by operator error, cybersecurity attacks and similar events. in addition, because we lease off-site data center facilities, we cannot be assured that we will be able to expand our data center infrastructure to meet user demand in a timely manner, or on favorable economic terms. if we have issues receiving and processing data, this may delay our ability to provide products and services to our customers and business partners and damage our business. we also rely upon the performance of the systems and processes of our contract manufacturers to build and ship our products. if those systems and processes experience interruption or delay, our ability to build and ship our products in a timely manner may be harmed. since it is critical to our operations, any failure to perform on the part of our it providers could impair our ability to operate effectively. in addition to the risks outlined above, problems with any of the third parties we rely on for our it systems could result in liabilities to our customers and business partners, lower revenue and unexecuted efficiencies, and impact our results of operations and our stock price. integration of acquisitions could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition and stock price and may dilute the ownership of our stockholders. we have made, and may continue to make, acquisitions in order to enhance our business. for example, we acquired mist systems in 2019, htbase in 2018 and cyphort in 2017. acquisitions involve numerous risks, including, but not limited to, problems combining the purchased operations, technologies or products, unanticipated costs, liabilities, litigation, and diversion of management's attention from our core businesses, adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers, risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience, and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions, initial dependence on unfamiliar supply chains or relatively small supply partners, failure of our due diligence processes to identify significant problems, liabilities or other challenges of an acquired company or technology, and the potential loss of key employees, customers, distributors, vendors and other business partners of the companies we acquire. there can be no assurance that we will be able to integrate successfully any businesses, products, technologies, or personnel that we might acquire or that the transaction will advance our business strategy. the integration of businesses that we may acquire is likely to be a complex, time-consuming, and expensive process and we may not realize the anticipated revenues or other benefits associated with our acquisitions. if we fail to successfully manage, operate or integrate any acquired business or if we are unable to efficiently operate as a combined organization, including through the use of common information and communication systems, operating procedures, financial controls, and human resources practices, we could be required to write-down investments and our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected. in connection with certain acquisitions, we may agree to issue common stock, or assume equity awards, that dilute the ownership of our current stockholders, use a substantial portion of our cash resources, assume liabilities (both known and unknown), record goodwill and amortizable intangible assets that will be subject to impairment testing on a regular basis and potential periodic impairment charges, incur amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets, and incur large and immediate write-offs and restructuring and other related expenses, all of which could harm our financial condition and results of operations. we are a party to lawsuits, investigations, proceedings, and other disputes, which are costly to defend and, if determined adversely to us, could require us to pay fines or damages, undertake remedial measures or prevent us from taking certain actions, any or all of which could harm our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. we, and certain of our current and former officers and current and former members of our board of directors, have been and may become subject to various lawsuits. we have been served with lawsuits related to employment matters, commercial transactions 24 table of contents and patent infringement, as well as securities laws. in addition, certain u.s. governmental agencies previously conducted investigations into possible violations by the company of the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, or the fcpa, which ultimately resulted in the company entering into a settlement with the sec that involved the company making a payment of $11.8 million in august 2019. generally, we cannot predict the duration, scope, outcome or consequences of litigation and government investigations. in connection with any limitation or government investigations, we may agree to settle the matter, we may be required to pay damages and incur other remedies, which may be material, and we may suffer reputational harm. in addition, if we fail to comply with the terms of any settlement agreement, we could face more substantial penalties. the lawsuits and investigations are expensive and time-consuming to defend, settle, and/or resolve, and may require us to implement certain remedial measures that could prove costly or disruptive to our business and operations. the unfavorable resolution of one or more of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. we are a party to litigation and claims regarding intellectual property rights, resolution of which may be time-consuming and expensive, as well as require a significant amount of resources to prosecute, defend, or make our products non-infringing. our industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent claims and related litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. we expect that infringement claims may increase as the number of products and competitors in our market increases and overlaps occur. third parties have asserted and may in the future assert claims or initiate litigation related to patent, copyright, trademark, and other intellectual property rights to technologies and related standards that are relevant to our products. the asserted claims and/or initiated litigation may include claims against us or our manufacturers, suppliers, partners, or customers, alleging that our products or services infringe proprietary rights. in addition, increased patent litigation brought by non-practicing entities in recent years may result, and in some cases has resulted, in our customers requesting or requiring us to absorb a portion of the costs of such litigation or providing broader indemnification for litigation, each of which could increase our expenses and negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. regardless of the merit of these claims, they have been and can be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, and may require us to develop non-infringing technologies, enter into license agreements, or cease engaging in certain activities or offering certain products or services. furthermore, because of the potential for high awards of damages or injunctive relief that are not necessarily predictable, even arguably unmeritorious claims may be settled for significant amounts of money. if any infringement or other intellectual property claim made against us or anyone we are required to indemnify by any third-party is successful, if we are required to settle litigation for significant amounts of money, if we fail to develop non-infringing technology, if we incorporate infringing technology in our products or if we license required proprietary rights at material expense, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. as we seek to sell more products directly to telecommunications, cable and cloud service provider companies and other large customers, we may be required to agree to terms and conditions that could have an adverse effect on our business or impact the amount of revenues to be recognized. telecommunications, cable and cloud service provider companies, which comprise a significant portion of our customer base, and other large companies, generally have greater purchasing power than smaller entities and, accordingly, often request and receive more favorable terms from suppliers. as we seek to sell more products directly to this class of customer, we may be required to agree to such terms and conditions, which may include terms that affect the timing of our ability to recognize revenue, increase our costs and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. consolidation among such large customers can further increase their buying power and ability to require onerous terms. in addition, these types of customers have purchased products from other vendors who promised but failed to deliver certain functionality and/or had products that caused problems or outages in the networks of these customers. as a result, these customers may request additional features from us and require substantial penalties for failure to deliver such features or may require substantial penalties for any network outages that may be caused by our products. these additional requests and penalties, if we are required to agree to them, may impact the amount of revenue recognition from such sales, which may negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, increased patent litigation brought against customers in recent years, may result, and in some cases has resulted, in customers requesting or requiring vendors to absorb a portion of the costs of such litigation or providing broader indemnification for litigation, each of which could increase our expenses and negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 25 table of contents regulation of our industry in general and the telecommunications industry in particular could harm our operating results and future prospects. we are subject to laws and regulations affecting the sale of our products in a number of areas. for example, some governments have regulations prohibiting government entities from purchasing security products that do not meet country-specific safety, conformance or security certification criteria or in-country test requirements. other regulations that may negatively impact our business include local content or local manufacturing requirements most commonly applicable for government, state-owned enterprise or regulated industry procurements. these types of regulations are in effect or under consideration in several jurisdictions where we do business. the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act includes disclosure requirements applicable to public companies regarding the use of conflict minerals mined from the democratic republic of congo and adjoining countries, which we refer to collectively as the drc, and procedures regarding a manufacturer's efforts to prevent the sourcing of such conflict minerals. these minerals are present in our products. in addition, the european union reached agreement in late 2016 on an eu-wide conflict minerals rule under which most eu importers of tin, tungsten, tantalum, gold and their ores will have to conduct due diligence to ensure the minerals do not originate from conflict zones and do not fund armed conflicts. large manufacturers also will have to disclose how they plan to monitor their sources to comply with the rules. the regulation was adopted in 2017 with compliance required by 2021. in addition, environmental laws and regulations relevant to electronic equipment manufacturing or operations, including laws and regulations governing the hazardous material content of our products and laws relating to the collection of and recycling of electrical and electronic equipment, may adversely impact our business and financial condition. these laws and regulations include, among others, the european union, or eu, restriction on the use of certain hazardous substances directive, or rohs. the eu rohs and the similar laws of other jurisdictions limit the content of certain hazardous materials, such as lead, mercury, and cadmium, in electronic equipment, including our products. currently, our products comply with the eu rohs requirements. however, certain exemptions are scheduled to lapse. the lapse of any exemption, further changes to this or other laws, or passage of similar laws in the eu or other jurisdictions, would require us to cease selling non-compliant products and to reengineer our products to use components compatible with these regulations. this reengineering and component substitution could result in additional costs to us, disrupt our operations or logistics, and result in an adverse impact on our operating results. in addition, in validating the compliance of our products with applicable hazardous materials restrictions, we rely substantially on affirmations by our component suppliers as to the compliance of their products with respect to those same restrictions. failure by our component suppliers to furnish accurate and timely information could subject us to penalties or liability for violation of such hazardous materials restrictions, interrupt our supply of products to the eu, and result in our customers refusing or being unable to purchase our products. additionally, the eu and a number of other jurisdictions have adopted regulations requiring producers of electrical and electronic equipment to assume certain responsibilities for collecting, treating, recycling and disposing of products when they have reached the end of their useful life. finally, the eu reach regulations regulate the handling of certain chemical substances that may be used in our products. in addition, as a contractor and subcontractor to u.s. government departments and agencies, we are subject to federal regulations pertaining to our it systems. for instance, as a subcontractor to the u.s. department of defense, or dod, the defense federal acquisition regulation supplement, or dfars, required that our it systems comply with the security and privacy controls described in national institute of standards and technology special publication 800-171, or nist sp 800-171. the dfars also requires that we flow the security control requirement down to certain of our own subcontractors. failure to comply with these requirements could result in a loss of federal government business, subject us to claims or other remedies for non-compliance and negatively impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations. the telecommunications industry is highly regulated, and our business and financial condition could be adversely affected by changes in regulations relating to the internet telecommunications industry. similarly, while there are currently few laws or regulations that apply directly to access to or commerce on ip networks, future regulations could include sales taxes on products sold via the internet and internet service provider access charges. we could be adversely affected by regulation of ip networks and commerce in any country where we market equipment and services to service providers or cloud provider companies. regulations governing the range of services and business models that can be offered by service providers or cloud provider companies could adversely affect those customers' needs for products. for instance, in december 2017, the u.s. federal communications commission repealed its 2015 regulations governing aspects of fixed broadband networks and wireless networks. this change in regulatory treatment of networks might impact service provider and cloud provider business models and their need for internet telecommunications equipment and services. at the same time, several states have enacted their own laws and regulations governing certain aspects of fixed and wireless networks in the manner of the 2015 fcc regulations. these laws and regulations enacted by the states are or will be subject to legal challenges from the federal government and/or regulated providers. 26 table of contents also, many jurisdictions are evaluating or implementing regulations relating to cyber security, supply chain integrity, privacy and data protection, any of which can affect the market and requirements for networking and security equipment. the adoption and implementation of additional regulations, such as the internet of things (iot) security law (sb-327) which became enforceable in 2020, could reduce demand for our products, increase the cost of building and selling our products, result in product inventory write-offs, impact our ability to ship products into affected areas and recognize revenue in a timely manner, require us to spend significant time and expense to comply, and subject us to fines and civil or criminal sanctions or claims if we were to violate or become liable under such regulations. any of these impacts could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. governmental regulations and economic sanctions affecting the import or export of products generally or affecting products containing encryption capabilities, in particular, could negatively affect our revenues and operating results. the united states and various foreign governments have imposed controls and restrictions on the export of, among other things, certain telecommunications products and components, particularly those that contain or use encryption technology. most of our products contain or use encryption technology and, consequently, are subject to such controls, requirements and restrictions. certain governments, like those of russia and china, control importation and in-country use of encryption items and technology. the scope, nature and severity of such controls vary widely across different countries and may change frequently over time. for several years, u.s. government officials have had concerns with the security of products and services from certain telecommunications and video providers based in china. as a result, congress has enacted bans on the use of the covered equipment and services in federal networks and even in the networks of subcontractors to the federal government. in 2019, the u.s. department of commerce, or commerce department, proposed a rule that would subject to government review the acquisition or use of information and communication technology, or ict, goods and services from entities owned by, controlled by, or subject to the jurisdiction of a foreign adversary. the proposal would be retroactive and apply to transactions dating back to may 15, 2019. if implemented as proposed, the rule could subject acquisition of components, modules, other parts, and any services to lengthy government review processes. this would introduce significant uncertainty into our supply chain planning as we would not be certain which potential acquisitions the government would permit and which it would reject. increasingly, governments have begun using export and import controls not only to further national security objectives but also to protect local industries and restrict proliferation of locally developed emerging or foundational technology." for example, in 2018 the u.s. enacted the export control reform act, which expands the power of the commerce department to use export controls to protect domestic industry and to restrict the export of emerging and foundational technologies not currently subject to controls. in furtherance of that law, on november 19, 2018, the commerce department sought public comment on how to define emerging technologies. our ability to market and sell our products overseas may be impacted by such export controls, if and when they are imposed. in addition, the u.s. and other governments have especially broad sanctions and embargoes prohibiting provision of goods or services to certain countries, and territories, and to certain sanctioned governments, legal entities and individuals. some of these restrictions have been imposed not just to protect national security but also to protect domestic industries and to achieve political aims. for instance, the commerce department in 2018 added to its entity list, a chinese semiconductor manufacturer on the express basis that it threatens the viability of u.s. competitors; the entity list traditionally is used to restrict exports to end users that pose a security risk. particularly far reaching and complex are restrictions imposed by the u.s. and eu on exports to russia and, in particular, to the disputed region of crimea. we have implemented systems to detect and prevent sales into these restricted countries or to prohibited entities or individuals, but there can be no assurance that our third party, downstream resellers and distributors will abide by these restrictions or have processes in place to ensure compliance, especially where local government regulation might prohibit adherence to such restrictions. certain governments also impose special local content, certification, testing, source code review, escrow and governmental recovery of private encryption keys, or other cybersecurity feature requirements to protect network equipment and software procured by or for the government. similar requirements also may be imposed in procurements by state owned entities ( soe's ) or even private companies forming part of critical network infrastructure or supporting sensitive industries. for example, china, vietnam and india have promulgated cybersecurity regulations affecting networking products that may impair our ability to profitably market and sell our products there. china, in particular, is expected to require implementation of non-standard chinese encryption algorithms in products sold into certain government, soe, critical infrastructure and sensitive industry (such as financial institutions) markets. in the u.s., there are new restrictions on the use of certain chinese-origin components or systems either (1) in items sold to the u.s. government or (2) in the internal networks of government contractors and subcontractors (even if those 27 table of contents networks are not used for government-related projects). the u.s. government also might restrict or ban the use of certain chinese-origin components and systems in next generation mobile communications networks (e.g. 5g). in addition, governments sometimes impose additional taxes on certain imported products. for example, the united states and chinese governments each have imposed tariffs on certain products originating from the other country. in 2018, the united states imposed tariffs on a large variety of products of china origin. as a result, beginning september 24, 2018, a large portion of juniper products manufactured in china became subject to a 10% tariff on importation into the u.s. pursuant to the u.s. government's list 3 tariff proceeding. the u.s. president announced on may 5, 2019, that the rate would increase to 25% on may 10, 2019 due to the lack of negotiation progress. on august 1, 2019, the president stated his intent to increase the list 3 tariff to 30%, which he announced would occur on october 15, 2019; this planned increase to 30% has been postponed indefinitely. similarly, in july 2019, the u.s. president reiterated his readiness to impose tariffs on all remaining chinese imports (list 4 tariff proceeding) if u.s.-china negotiations remained unresolved. in august 2019, he announced that he would impose a 15% tariff on list 4 imports effective september 1, 2019. pursuant to a u.s.-china trade deal signed in mid-january, the list 3 rate will remain at 25% but the list 4 rate will decrease from 15% to 7.5%, effective february 14, 2020. depending upon their duration and implementation, as well as our ability to mitigate their impact, these tariffs could materially affect our business, including in the form of increased cost of goods sold, increased pricing for customers, and reduced sales. governmental regulation of encryption or ip networking technology and regulation of imports or exports, or our failure to obtain required import or export approval for our products, or related economic sanctions could harm our international and domestic sales and adversely affect our revenues and operating results. in addition, failure to comply with such regulations could result in harm to our reputation and ability to compete in international markets, penalties, costs, seizure of assets (including source code) and restrictions on import or export privileges or adversely affect sales to government agencies or government-funded projects. our actual or perceived failure to adequately protect personal data could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. a wide variety of provincial, state, national, foreign, and international laws and regulations apply to the collection, use, retention, protection, disclosure, transfer, and other processing of personal data. these privacy- and data protection-related laws and regulations are evolving, with new or modified laws and regulations proposed and implemented frequently and existing laws and regulations subject to new or different interpretations. further, our legal and regulatory obligations in foreign jurisdictions are subject to unexpected changes, including the potential for regulatory or other governmental entities to enact new or additional laws or regulations, to issues rulings that invalidate prior laws or regulations, or to increase penalties significantly. compliance with these laws and regulations can be costly and can delay or impede the development and offering of new products and services. for example, the general data protection regulation ( gdpr ), which became effective in may 2018, imposes more stringent data protection requirements, and provides for significantly greater penalties for noncompliance, than the eu laws that previously applied. additionally, california recently enacted legislation, the california consumer privacy act ( ccpa ), which became effective january 1, 2020. the ccpa requires, among other things, covered companies to provide new disclosures to california consumers, and allow such consumers new abilities to opt-out of certain sales of personal information. final regulations by the california attorney general are expected to be published later this year. it remains unclear the extent or timing of any modifications that will be made to the ccpa, or how such modifications will be interpreted. the effects of the ccpa potentially are significant and may require us to modify our data processing practices and policies and to incur substantial costs and expenses in an effort to comply. we may also be subject to additional obligations relating to personal data by contract that industry standards apply to our practices. further, other states have also expanded their data protection laws. additionally, the federal trade commission and many state attorneys general are interpreting federal and state consumer protection laws to impose standards for the online collection, use, dissemination, and security of data. in addition, we may be or become subject to data localization laws mandating that data collected in a foreign country be processed and stored within that country. our actual or perceived failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations or other obligations to which we may be subject relating to personal data, or to protect personal data from unauthorized access, use, or other processing, could result in enforcement actions and regulatory investigations against us, claims for damages by customers and other affected individuals, fines, damage to our reputation, and loss of goodwill, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial performance, and business. further, evolving and changing definitions of personal data and personal information, within the eu, the u.s., u.k., and elsewhere, including the classification of ip addresses, machine identification information, location data, and other information, may limit or inhibit our ability to operate or expand our business, including limiting business relationships and partnerships that may involve the sharing or uses of data, and may require significant costs, resources, and efforts in order to comply. 28 table of contents our ability to develop, market, and sell products could be harmed if we are unable to retain or hire key personnel. our future success and ability to maintain a technology leadership position depends upon our ability to recruit and retain the services of executive, engineering, sales and marketing, and support personnel. the supply of highly qualified individuals with technological and creative skills, in particular engineers in very specialized technical areas who have the expertise necessary to develop new products and develop enhancements for our current products, and provide reliable product maintenance, or sales people with specialized industry expertise, is limited and competition for such individuals is intense. none of our officers or key employees is bound by an employment agreement for any specific term. the loss of the services of any of our key employees, the inability to attract or retain personnel in the future or delays in hiring required personnel, engineers and sales people, and the complexity and time involved in replacing or training new employees, could delay the development and introduction of new products, and negatively impact our ability to market, sell, or support our products. there can be no assurance that others will not develop technologies that are similar or superior to our technology. a number of our team members are foreign nationals who rely on visas and entry permits in order to legally work in the united states and other countries. in recent years, the united states has increased the level of scrutiny in granting h-1(b), l-1 and other business visas. in addition, the current u.s. administration has made immigration reform a priority. compliance with united states immigration and labor laws could require us to incur additional unexpected labor costs and expenses or could restrain our ability to retain skilled professionals. any of these restrictions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial conditions. our financial condition and results of operations could suffer if there is an impairment of goodwill or purchased intangible assets. as of december 31, 2019 , our goodwill was $3,337.1 million , and our purchased intangible assets were $185.8 million. we are required to test intangible assets with indefinite lives, including goodwill, annually or more frequently if certain circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit and intangible assets below their carrying values. when the carrying value of a reporting unit's goodwill exceeds its implied fair value of goodwill, or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an intangible asset might not be recoverable, a charge to operations is recorded. either event would result in incremental expenses for that quarter, which would reduce any earnings or increase any loss for the period in which the impairment was determined to have occurred. we have in the past recorded goodwill impairment charges. declines in our level of revenues or declines in our operating margins, or sustained declines in our stock price, increase the risk that goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives may become impaired in future periods. our goodwill impairment analysis is sensitive to changes in key assumptions used in our analysis, such as expected future cash flows, the degree of volatility in equity and debt markets, and our stock price. if the assumptions used in our analysis are not realized, it is possible that an impairment charge may need to be recorded in the future. we cannot accurately predict the amount and timing of any impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets. however, any such impairment would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. changes in effective tax rates or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income or other tax returns could adversely affect our results. our future effective tax rates could be subject to volatility or adversely affected by the following: earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated earnings in countries where we have higher statutory rates; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; expiration of, or lapses in, the r&amp;d tax credit laws applicable to us; transfer pricing adjustments related to certain acquisitions, including the license of acquired intangibles under our intercompany r&amp;d cost sharing arrangement; costs related to intercompany restructuring; tax effects of share-based compensation; challenges to our methodologies for valuing developed technology or intercompany arrangements; limitations on the deductibility of net interest expense; or changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles, or interpretations thereof. for example, on november 12, 2019, in altera corp. v. commissioner, the ninth circuit court of appeals denied altera corporation's petition for rehearing en banc of its case, following the ninth circuit's decision against altera issued on june 7, 2019 (the 2019 opinion ). the 2019 opinion required related parties in an intercompany cost-sharing arrangement to share expenses related to share-based compensation. altera appealed this decision to the u.s. supreme court on february 10, 2020. pending final resolution of the altera case, the company's position on cost-sharing of share-based compensation remains unchanged. if the final judicial decision is not in favor of altera, we expect our effective tax rate and current income tax payable to be higher. we are monitoring this case and any impact the final resolution may have on our financial statements. in addition, the tax act made significant changes to the taxation of u.s. business entities that may have a meaningful impact to our provision for income taxes. these changes included a reduction to the federal corporate income tax rate, the current taxation of certain foreign earnings, the imposition 29 table of contents of base-erosion prevention measures which may limit the deduction of certain transfer pricing payments, and possible limitations on the deductibility of net interest expense or corporate debt obligations. accounting for the income tax effects of the tax act required significant judgments and estimates that are based on current interpretations of the tax act. the u.s. department of the treasury continues to issue regulations that affect various components of the act. our future effective tax rate may be impacted by changes in interpretation of the regulations, as well as additional legislation and guidance regarding the act. furthermore, on october 5, 2015, the organisation for economic co-operation and development, or oecd, an international association of 35 countries including the u.s., published final proposals under its base erosion and profit shifting, or beps, action plan. the beps action plan includes fifteen actions to address beps in a comprehensive manner and represents a significant change to the international corporate tax landscape. these proposals, as adopted by countries, may increase tax uncertainty and adversely affect our provision for income taxes. in addition, we are generally subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the internal revenue service, or irs, and other tax authorities. it is possible that tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and any adverse outcome of such a review or audit could have a negative effect on our financial position and operating results. we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes, but the determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires significant judgment by management, and there are transactions where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. although we believe that our estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our consolidated financial statements and may materially affect our financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made. there can be no assurance that the outcomes from continuous examinations will not have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we may face difficulties enforcing our proprietary rights, which could adversely affect our ability to compete. we generally rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secret laws and contractual restrictions on disclosure of confidential and proprietary information, to establish and maintain proprietary rights in our technology and products. although we have been issued numerous patents and other patent applications are currently pending, there can be no assurance that any of our patent applications will result in issued patents or that any of our patents or other proprietary rights will not be challenged, invalidated, infringed or circumvented or that our rights will, in fact, provide competitive advantages to us or protect our technology, any of which could result in costly product redesign efforts, discontinuance of certain product offerings and other competitive harm. in addition, despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. we generally enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants, vendors, and customers, and generally limit access to and distribution of our proprietary information. however, we cannot assure you that we have entered into such agreements with all parties who may have or have had access to our confidential information or that the agreements we have entered into will not be breached. we cannot guarantee that any of the measures we have taken will prevent misappropriation of our technology. furthermore, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. the outcome of any actions taken in these foreign countries may be different than if such actions were determined under the laws of the united states. although we are not dependent on any individual patents or group of patents for particular segments of the business for which we compete, if we are unable to protect our proprietary rights in a market, we may find ourselves at a competitive disadvantage to others who need not incur the substantial expense, time, and effort required to create innovative products that have enabled our success. we are subject to risks arising from our international operations, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we derive a substantial portion of our revenues from our international operations, and we plan to continue expanding our business in international markets. we conduct significant sales and customer support operations directly and indirectly through our distributors and value-added resellers in countries throughout the world and depend on the operations of our contract manufacturers and suppliers that are located outside of the united states. in addition, a portion of our r&amp;d and our general and administrative operations are conducted outside the united states. in some countries, we may experience reduced intellectual property protection. as a result of our international operations, we are affected by economic, business regulatory, social, and political conditions in foreign countries, including the following: changes in general it spending; 30 table of contents the imposition of government controls, inclusive of critical infrastructure protection; changes in trade controls, economic sanctions, or other international trade regulations, which may affect our ability to import or export our products to or from various countries; laws that restrict sales of products that are developed, manufactured, or incorporate components or assemblies from certain countries to specific customers (e.g., u.s. federal government departments and agencies) and industry segments, or for particular uses or more generally; varying and potentially conflicting laws and regulations; political uncertainty, including demonstrations, that could have an impact on product delivery from and into the china region; fluctuations in local economies; wage inflation or a tightening of the labor market; tax policies that could have a business impact; import tariffs imposed by the united states and reciprocal tariffs imposed by foreign countries; data privacy rules and other regulations that affect cross border data flow; and the impact of the following on customer spending patterns: political considerations, unfavorable changes in tax treaties or laws, natural disasters, epidemic disease or a pandemic, such as covid-19 in greater china, a region of importance to our supply chain and our end market sales, labor unrest, earnings expatriation restrictions, misappropriation of intellectual property, military actions, acts of terrorism, political and social unrest and difficulties in staffing and managing international operations. any or all of these factors could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition, the u.k.'s formal exit from the eu on january 31, 2020, commonly referred to as brexit, has caused, and may continue to cause, uncertainty in the global markets. the u.k. is expected to enter a transition period until december 31, 2020 permitting negotiation of a free trade deal between the us and u.k. the consequences for the economies of the u.k. and eu member states as a result of the u.k.'s withdrawal from the eu remain unknown and unpredictable. any impact from brexit on the company will depend, in part, on the outcome of tariff, trade and other negotiations. for example, changes to the way service providers conduct business and transmit data between the u.k. and the eu could require us to make changes to the way we handle customer data. we are also reviewing the impact of any resulting changes to eu or u.k. law that could affect our operations, such as labor policies, financial planning, product manufacturing, and product distribution. political and regulatory responses to the withdrawal are still developing and we are in the process of assessing the impact the withdrawal may have on our business as more information becomes available, including, but not limited to changes to u.k. immigration policy that may affect our ability to attract and retain talent in emea. nevertheless, because we conduct business in the eu and the u.k., any of the effects of brexit, including those we cannot anticipate, could have a material adverse effect on our business, business opportunities, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. the lack of certainty given the pending eu-u.k. negotiations creates the risk that, notwithstanding that we have devoted significant resources to preparing for the impact of brexit, we may not be adequately prepared for an unforeseen outcome. our business is also impacted by the negotiation and implementation of free trade agreements between the united states and other nations. such agreements can reduce barriers to international trade and thus the cost of conducting business overseas. for instance, the united states reached a new trilateral trade agreement with the governments of canada and mexico to replace the north american free trade agreement (nafta). the united states and mexico have ratified the agreement, with canada expected to follow suit in the coming months. even after ratification, the three nations must meet various obligations before the agreement takes effect. many of the products that we have manufactured in china are transported by air cargo from hong kong. recently, there have been political demonstrations in hong kong that have resulted in cancellations or delays in flights in and out of china. if these demonstrations and their impact on air shipments continue, we could experience delays in product deliveries from china or be required to change our shipping practices, which could adversely impact our business. 31 table of contents further, the spread of covid-19from china has affected the manufacturing and shipment of goods. in january 2020, the chinese government imposed certain restrictions on movement of people and goods to limit the spread of covid-19 in and around wuhan. while our products are not manufactured in wuhan, any delay in production or delivery of our products or components made by our suppliers due to an extended closure of our supplier's plants as a result of efforts to limit the spread of covid-19 in china could adversely impact our business. in addition, several airlines have canceled flights to and from china, affecting the ability to obtain components needed for manufacturing elsewhere. the united states also imposed flights rules at the beginning of february that redirect flights carrying passengers who have visited china to one of seven u.s. airports. this applies even for flights not originating in china. if any of our products are shipped as cargo on such flights, they could be diverted to those airports. moreover, local laws and customs in many countries differ significantly from or conflict with those in the united states or in other countries in which we operate. in many foreign countries, it is common for others to engage in business practices that are prohibited by our internal policies and procedures or u.s. regulations applicable to us. there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, channel partners, and agents will not take actions in violation of our policies and procedures, which are designed to ensure compliance with u.s. and foreign laws and policies. violations of laws or key control policies by our employees, contractors, channel partners, or agents could result in termination of our relationship, financial reporting problems, fines, and/or penalties for us, or prohibition on the importation or exportation of our products, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, any theft or unauthorized use or publication of our intellectual property and other confidential business information could harm our competitive position. our products are highly technical and if they contain undetected defects, errors or malware or do not meet customer quality expectations, our business could be adversely affected, and we may be subject to additional costs or lawsuits or be required to pay damages in connection with any alleged or actual failure of our products and services. our products are highly technical and complex, are critical to the operation of many networks, and, in the case of our security products, provide and monitor network security and may protect valuable information. our products have contained and may contain one or more undetected errors, defects, malware, or security vulnerabilities. these errors may arise from hardware or software we produce or procure from third parties. some errors in our products may only be discovered after a product has been installed and used by end-customers. any errors, defects, malware or security vulnerabilities discovered in our products after commercial release could result in monetary penalties, negative publicity, loss of revenues or delay in revenue recognition, loss of customers, loss of future business and reputation, penalties, and increased service and warranty cost, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition, in the event an error, defect, malware, or vulnerability is attributable to a component supplied by a third-party vendor, we may not be able to recover from the vendor all of the costs of remediation that we may incur. in addition, we could face claims for product liability, tort, or breach of warranty or indemnification. defending a lawsuit, regardless of its merit, is costly and may divert management's attention. if our business liability insurance coverage is inadequate, or future coverage is unavailable on acceptable terms or at all, our financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. moreover, if our products fail to satisfy our customers' quality expectations for whatever reason, the perception of and the demand for our products could be adversely affected. we are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. because a substantial portion of our business is conducted outside the united states, we face exposure to adverse movements in non-u.s. currency exchange rates. these exposures may change over time as business practices evolve and could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. the majority of our revenues and expenses are transacted in u.s. dollars. we also have some transactions that are denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the british pound, chinese yuan, euro, and indian rupee related to our sales and service operations outside of the united states. an increase in the value of the u.s. dollar could increase the real cost to our customers of our products in those markets outside the united states in which we sell in u.s. dollars. this could negatively affect our ability to meet our customers' pricing expectations in those markets and may result in erosion of gross margin and market share. a weakened u.s. dollar could increase the cost of local operating expenses and procurement of raw materials to the extent we must purchase components in foreign currencies. currently, we hedge currency exposures associated with certain assets and liabilities denominated in nonfunctional currencies and periodically hedge anticipated foreign currency cash flows, with the aim of offsetting the impact of currency fluctuations on these exposures. however, hedge activities can be costly, and hedging cannot fully offset all risks, including long-term declines or 32 table of contents appreciation in the value of the u.s. dollar. if our attempts to hedge against these risks are not successful, or if long-term declines or appreciation in the value of the u.s. dollar persist, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted. if we fail to adequately evolve our financial and managerial control and reporting systems and processes, our ability to manage and grow our business will be negatively affected. our ability to successfully offer our products and implement our business plan in a rapidly evolving market requires an effective planning, forecasting, and management process to enable us to effectively scale and adjust our business and business models in response to fluctuating market opportunities and conditions. we will need to continue to improve our financial and managerial control and our reporting systems and procedures in order to manage our business effectively in the future. if we fail to effectively improve our systems and processes or we fail to monitor and ensure that these systems and processes are being used correctly, our ability to manage our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be negatively affected. if our products do not interoperate with our customers' networks, installations will be delayed or cancelled and could harm our business. our products are designed to interface with our customers' existing networks, each of which have different specifications and utilize multiple protocol standards and products from other vendors. many of our customers' networks contain multiple generations of products that have been added over time as these networks have grown and evolved. our products must interoperate with many or all of the products within these networks as well as future products in order to meet our customers' requirements. if we find errors in the existing software or defects in the hardware used in our customers' networks, we may need to modify our software or hardware to fix or overcome these errors so that our products will interoperate and scale with the existing software and hardware, which could be costly and could negatively affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition, if our products do not interoperate with those of our customers' networks, demand for our products could be adversely affected or orders for our products could be cancelled. this could hurt our operating results, damage our reputation, and seriously harm our business and prospects. our products incorporate and rely upon licensed third-party technology, and if licenses of third-party technology do not continue to be available to us or are not available on terms acceptable to us, our revenues and ability to develop and introduce new products could be adversely affected. we integrate licensed third-party technology into certain of our products. from time to time, we may be required to renegotiate our current third-party licenses or license additional technology from third-parties to develop new products or product enhancements or to facilitate new business models. third-party licenses may not be available or continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms. the failure to comply with the terms of any license, including free open source software, may result in our inability to continue to use such license. some of our agreements with our licensors may be terminated for convenience by them. in addition, we cannot be certain that our licensors are not infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties or that our licensors have sufficient rights to the licensed intellectual property in all jurisdictions in which we may sell our products. third- party technology we incorporate into our products that is deemed to infringe on the intellectual property of others may result, and in some cases has resulted, in limitations on our ability to source technology from those third parties, restrictions on our ability to sell products that incorporate the infringing technology, increased exposure to liability that we will be held responsible for incorporating the infringing technology in our products and increased costs involved in removing that technology from our products or developing substitute technology. our inability to maintain or re-license any third-party licenses required in our products or our inability to obtain third-party licenses necessary to develop new products and product enhancements, could require us, if possible, to develop substitute technology or obtain substitute technology of lower quality or performance standards or at a greater cost, any of which could delay or prevent product shipment and harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we rely on the availability and performance of information technology services provided by third parties, including ibm which will manage a significant portion of our systems. under the terms of our recent master services agreement and certain statements of work, ibm provides us with a broad range of information technology services, such as applications, including support, development and maintenance; infrastructure management and support, including for servers storage and network devices; and end user support including service desk. our businesses are dependent on the services provided and systems operated for us by ibm and its third-party providers. the failure of one or more of these entities to meet our performance standards and expectations, including with respect to data security, may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. our success is dependent on our ability to maintain effective relationships with ibm and other third-party technology and service providers as well as the ability of ibm and any other third-party providers to perform as expected. we may terminate our agreement 33 table of contents with ibm and any and all statements of work at any time on short notice for cause, convenience, certain specific performance failures, a breach of warranties by ibm, failure to transform, changes in law, force majeure, or a change in the control of either ibm or us. depending on the type and timing of a termination, we may be required to pay certain termination amounts to ibm. ibm's only right to terminate the master services agreement is based on our failure to comply with certain terms applying to disputed payments. this arrangement is subject to various risks, some of which are not within our control. these risks include, but are not limited to, disruption in services and the failure to protect the security and integrity of our data under the terms of the agreement. we are unable to provide assurances that some or all of these risks will not occur. failure to effectively mitigate these risks, if they occur, could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial results. in addition, we could face significant additional costs or business disruption if our arrangement with ibm is terminated or impaired and we cannot find alternative it services or support on commercially reasonable terms or on a timely basis or if we are unable to hire new employees in order to return these services in-house. we are required to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and publicly disclose material weaknesses in our controls. any adverse results from such evaluation may adversely affect investor perception, and our stock price. section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 requires our management to assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and to disclose in our filing if such controls were unable to provide assurance that a material error would be prevented or detected in a timely manner. we have an ongoing program to review the design of our internal controls framework in keeping with changes in business needs, implement necessary changes to our controls design and test the system and process controls necessary to comply with these requirements. if in the future, our internal controls over financial reporting are determined to be not effective resulting in a material weakness or significant deficiency, investor perceptions regarding the reliability of our financial statements may be adversely affected which could cause a decline in the market price of our stock and otherwise negatively affect our liquidity and financial condition. failure to maintain our credit ratings could adversely affect our cost of funds and related margins, liquidity, competitive position and access to capital markets. the major credit rating agencies routinely evaluate our indebtedness. this evaluation is based on a number of factors, which include financial strength as well as transparency with rating agencies and timeliness of financial reporting. there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our credit ratings and failure to do so could adversely affect our cost of funds and related margins, liquidity, competitive position and access to capital markets. we may be unable to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our expenses, make anticipated capital expenditures or service our debt obligations, including the notes and the revolving credit facility. as of december 31, 2019 , we had $1,700.0 million in aggregate principal amount of senior notes, which we refer to collectively as the notes. in april 2019, we entered into a new credit agreement with certain institutional lenders that provides for a five-year $500.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility, which we refer to as the revolving credit facility, with an option to increase the revolving credit facility by up to an additional $200.0 million , subject to the lenders' approval. the credit agreement will terminate in april 2024, at which point all amounts borrowed must be repaid (subject to two one-year maturity extension options). as of december 31, 2019, no amounts were outstanding under the revolving credit facility. we may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to enable us to satisfy our expenses, make anticipated capital expenditures or service our indebtedness, including the notes and the revolving credit facility (if drawn upon). our ability to pay our expenses, satisfy our debt obligations, refinance our debt obligations and fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. based upon current levels of operations, we believe cash flow from operations and available cash will be adequate for at least the next twelve months to meet our anticipated requirements for working capital, capital expenditures and scheduled payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness, including the notes and the revolving credit facility (if drawn upon). however, if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or to borrow sufficient funds in the future to service our debt, we may be required to sell assets, reduce capital expenditures, refinance all or a portion of our existing debt (including the notes) or obtain additional financing. there is no assurance that we will be able to refinance our debt, sell assets or borrow more money on terms acceptable to us, or at all. 34 table of contents the indenture that governs the notes contain various covenants that limit our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to, among other things: incur liens; incur sale and leaseback transactions; and consolidate or merge with or into, or sell substantially all of our assets to, another person. the credit agreement contains two financial covenants along with customary affirmative and negative covenants that include the following: maintenance of a leverage ratio no greater than 3.0x (provided that if a material acquisition has been consummated, we are permitted to maintain a leverage ratio no greater than 3.5x for up to four quarters) and an interest coverage ratio no less than 3.0x covenants that limit or restrict the ability of the company and its subsidiaries to, among other things, grant liens, merge or consolidate, dispose of all or substantially all of its assets, change their accounting or reporting policies, change their business and incur subsidiary indebtedness, in each case subject to customary exceptions for a credit facility of this size and type. as a result of these covenants, we are limited in the manner in which we can conduct our business, and we may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or capital needs. accordingly, these restrictions may limit our ability to successfully operate our business. a failure to comply with these restrictions could lead to an event of default, which could result in an acceleration of the indebtedness, which could result in an event of default under our other debt instruments. our future operating results may not be sufficient to enable compliance with these covenants to remedy any such default. in addition, in the event of an acceleration, we may not have or be able to obtain sufficient funds to make any accelerated payments, including those under the notes, and the revolving credit facility (if drawn upon). in addition, certain changes under the tax act may result in limitations on the deductibility of our net business interest expenses. the tax act generally limits the annual deduction for net business interest expense to an amount equal to 30% of adjusted taxable income. as a result, if our taxable income were to decline, we may not be able to fully deduct our net interest expense. these changes, among others under the tax act, could result in increases to our future u.s. tax expenses, which could have a material impact on our business. a portion of the transaction consideration we received from the divestiture of our junos pulse product portfolio is in the form of a non-contingent seller promissory note and we may not receive the amount owed to us (including accrued interest), including in the time frame contemplated, by the buyer under the note. in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2014, we completed the sale of our junos pulse product portfolio to an affiliate of siris capital, a private equity firm, for total consideration of $230.7 million, of which $125.0 million was in the form of an 18-month non-contingent interest-bearing promissory note issued to the company. on may 1, 2017, we received a principal payment in the amount of $75.0 million and outstanding interest on the note, and we and the issuer agreed to further amend the terms of the note with respect to the remaining approximately $58.0 million to, among other things, extend the maturity date from december 31, 2018 to september 30, 2022, provided that interest due can be paid in kind by increasing the outstanding principal amount of the note and subordinate the note to other debt issued by senior lenders. since a portion of the transaction consideration is in the form of a non-contingent seller promissory note and the note is subordinated to debt issued by senior lenders, there is the risk that we may not receive the amount owed to us (including accrued interest), including in the time frame contemplated, under the note. in the event that the promissory note is not repaid on the terms we contemplate, any collection or restructuring efforts we undertake may be costly and require significant time and attention from our management and there is no guarantee that we will be able to recover the amounts owed to us in full. our failure to pay quarterly dividends to our stockholders or the failure to meet our commitments to return capital to our stockholders could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. our ability to pay quarterly dividends or achieve our intended capital return policy will be subject to, among other things, our financial position and results of operations, available cash and cash flow, capital and debt service requirements, use of cash for acquisitions and other factors. any failure to pay or increase future dividends as announced, or a reduction or discontinuation of quarterly dividends could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. 35 table of contents in january 2018, we announced that our board of directors approved a new $2.0 billion buyback authorization, which replaced our prior authorization and in october 2019, the board authorized the repurchase of up to an additional $1.0 billion of common stock under the 2018 stock repurchase program. any failure to meet our commitments to return capital to our stockholders could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. the investment of our cash balance and our investments in government and corporate debt securities and equity securities are subject to risks, which may cause losses and affect the liquidity of these investments. at december 31, 2019 , we had $1,215.8 million in cash and cash equivalents and $1,327.8 million in short-and long-term investments. we have invested these amounts primarily in asset-backed securities, certificates of deposit, commercial paper, corporate debt securities, foreign government debt securities, money market funds, mutual funds, time deposits, u.s. government agency securities, and u.s. government securities. we also have $189.8 million in other long-term assets for our investments in privately-held companies. certain of our investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market, sovereign debt, and interest rate risks. our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates or if the decline in fair value of our publicly traded debt or equity investments is judged to be other-than-temporary. these market risks associated with our investment portfolio may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations. changes in the method of determining the london interbank offered rate, or libor, or the replacement of libor with an alternative reference rate, may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. certain of our financial obligations and instruments, including our credit facility, pulse note, supplier finance programs, and floating rate notes that we have invested in, as well as interest rate swaps that we use as fair value hedges of our fixed-rate 2041 notes, are or may be made at variable interest rates that use libor (or metrics derived from or related to libor) as a benchmark for establishing the interest rate. on july 27, 2017, the united kingdom's financial conduct authority announced that it intends to stop persuading or compelling banks to submit libor rates after 2021. these reforms may cause libor to perform differently than in the past or to disappear entirely. these reforms may also result in new methods of calculating libor to be established, or alternative reference rates to be established. for example, the federal reserve bank of new york has begun publishing a secured overnight funding rate, or sofr, which is intended to replace u.s. dollar libor, and central banks in several other jurisdictions have also announced plans for alternative reference rates for other currencies. the potential consequences of these actions cannot be fully predicted and could have an adverse impact on the market value for or value of libor-linked securities, loans, and other financial obligations or extensions of credit held by or due to us. changes in market interest rates may influence our financing costs, returns on financial investments and the valuation of derivative contracts and could reduce our earnings and cash flows. in addition, any transition process may involve, among other things, increased volatility or illiquidity in markets for instruments that rely on libor, reductions in the value of certain instruments or the effectiveness of related transactions such as hedges, increased borrowing costs, uncertainty under applicable documentation, or difficult and costly consent processes. this could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows, and liquidity. our amended and restated bylaws provide that the court of chancery of the state of delaware will be the sole and exclusive forum for substantially all disputes between us and our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers, or employees. our amended and restated bylaws provide that, unless we consent to the selection of an alternative forum, the court of chancery of the state of delaware (or if the court of chancery does not have jurisdiction, the u.s. district court for the district of delaware) is the sole and exclusive forum for (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf; (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of fiduciary duty owed by any of our current or former directors, officers, or other employees to us or to our stockholders; (iii) any action asserting a claim arising pursuant to the delaware general corporation law, our restated certificate of incorporation, or our bylaws; (iv) any action or proceeding asserting a claim as to which delaware general corporation law confers jurisdiction on the court of chancery or (v) any action asserting a claim governed by the internal affairs doctrine. the exclusive forum provisions in our bylaws may limit a stockholder's ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our current or former directors, officers, or other employees, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our current or former directors, officers, and other employees. alternatively, if a court were to find the exclusive forum provisions contained in our bylaws to be inapplicable or unenforceable in an action, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such action in other jurisdictions, which could have a material and adverse impact on our business. 36 table of contents uninsured losses could harm our operating results. we self-insure against many business risks and expenses, such as intellectual property litigation and our medical benefit programs, where we believe we can adequately self-insure against the anticipated exposure and risk or where insurance is either not deemed cost-effective or is not available. we also maintain a program of insurance coverage for various types of property, casualty, and other risks. we place our insurance coverage with various carriers in numerous jurisdictions. the types and amounts of insurance that we obtain vary from time to time and from location to location, depending on availability, cost, and our decisions with respect to risk retention. the policies are subject to deductibles, policy limits, and exclusions that result in our retention of a level of risk on a self-insurance basis. in addition, our insurance coverage may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses or failures that may occur. losses not covered by insurance could be substantial and unpredictable and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. our stock price may fluctuate. historically, our common stock has experienced substantial price volatility, particularly as a result of variations between our actual financial results and the published expectations of analysts and as a result of announcements by our competitors and us. furthermore, speculation in the press or investment community about our strategic position, financial condition, results of operations, business, security of our products, liabilities or significant transactions can cause changes in our stock price. in addition, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many technology companies in particular and that have often been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. from time to time, economic weakness has contributed to extreme price and volume fluctuations in global stock markets that have also reduced the market price of many technology company stocks, including ours. these factors, as well as general economic and political conditions and the announcement of proposed and completed acquisitions or other significant transactions, or any difficulties associated with such transactions, by us or our current or potential competitors, may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock in the future. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 56 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk interest expense risk - available-for-sale fixed income securities the primary objectives of our investment activities are, in order of priority, to preserve principal, maintain liquidity, and maximize yield. the value of our investments is subject to market price volatility. to minimize this risk, we maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities, which includes asset-backed securities, certificates of deposit, commercial paper, corporate debt securities, foreign government debt securities, money market funds, mutual funds, time deposits, u.s. government agency securities, and u.s. government securities. at any time, a rise in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our investment portfolio. conversely, a decline in interest rates could have a material impact on interest income from our investment portfolio. we do not currently hedge these interest rate exposures. the following tables present hypothetical changes in fair value of our available-for-sale fixed income securities held as of december 31, 2019 and 2018 that are sensitive to changes in interest rates assuming immediate parallel shifts in the yield curve of 50 basis points, or bps, 100 bps and 150 bps, which are representative of the historical movements in the federal funds rate (in millions): - 150 bps - 100 bps - 50 bps fair value as of december 31, 2019 + 50 bps + 100 bps + 150 bps available-for-sale fixed income securities $ 1,630.4 $ 1,625.2 $ 1,620.1 $ 1,614.9 $ 1,609.7 $ 1,604.5 $ 1,599.3 - 150 bps - 100 bps - 50 bps fair value as of december 31, 2018 + 50 bps + 100 bps + 150 bps available-for-sale fixed income securities $ 2,210.6 $ 2,208.0 $ 2,205.4 $ 2,202.8 $ 2,200.3 $ 2,197.7 $ 2,195.1 foreign currency risk and foreign exchange forward contracts periodically, we use derivatives to hedge against fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. we do not enter into derivatives for speculative or trading purposes. we use foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate variability in gains and losses generated from the re-measurement of certain monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies. these foreign exchange forward contracts typically have maturities of approximately one to four months . our sales and costs of product revenues are primarily denominated in u.s. dollars. our cost of service revenue and operating expenses are denominated in u.s. dollars as well as other foreign currencies, including the british pound, chinese yuan, euro, and the indian rupee. approximately 79% of such costs and operating expenses are denominated in u.s. dollars. periodically, we use foreign currency forward and/or option contracts to hedge certain forecasted foreign currency transactions to reduce variability in cost of service revenue and operating expenses caused by non-u.s. dollar denominated operating expense and costs. in designing a specific hedging approach, we consider several factors, including offsetting exposures, significance of exposures, costs associated with entering into a particular hedge instrument, and potential effectiveness of the hedge. these derivatives are designated as cash flow hedges and have maturities of twenty-four months or less. the change in operating expenses including cost of service revenue, research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses, due to foreign currency fluctuations was a reduction to operating expenses of 0.9% and 0.1% for years ended december 31, 2019 and december 31, 2018 , respectively. see note 6, derivative instruments , in notes to consolidated financial statements in item 8 of part ii of this report for further discussion of our derivative and hedging activity. we have performed a sensitivity analysis as of december 31, 2019 and as of december 31, 2018 , using a modeling technique that measures the change in the amount of non-u.s. dollar cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities arising from a hypothetical 10% movement in the levels of foreign currency exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar, with all other variables held constant. the foreign currency exchange rates we used were based on market rates in effect on december 31, 2019 and december 31, 2018 , respectively. the sensitivity analysis indicated that a hypothetical 10% movement in foreign currency exchange rates would change 56 table of contents the amount of cash, cash equivalents, and investments we would report in u.s. dollars as of december 31, 2019 and december 31, 2018 by less than 1.5% and by less than 1.1%, respectively. equity price risk we have also invested in privately-held companies. depending on the nature of these investments, some can be carried at cost, adjusted for changes from observable transactions for identical or similar investments of the same issuer, less impairment, and others can be carried at fair value. the carrying values of our investments in privately-held companies were $189.8 million and $90.4 million as of december 31, 2019 and december 31, 2018 , respectively. the privately-held companies in which we invest can still be considered to be in the startup or development stages. these investments are inherently risky because the markets for the technologies or products these companies are developing, are typically in the early stages, and may never materialize. we could lose our entire investment in these companies. our evaluation of investments in privately-held companies is based on the fundamentals of the businesses invested in, including, among other factors, the nature of their technologies and potential for financial return. 57 table of contentsrisk factors 15 risk factors factors that may affect future results investments in our securities involve significant risks. the market price of our stock has historically reflected a higher multiple of earnings than many other companies. accordingly, even small changes in investor expectations for our future growth and earnings, whether as a result of actual or rumored financial or operating results, changes in the mix of the products and services sold, acquisitions, industry changes, or other factors, could trigger, and have triggered in the past, significant fluctuations in the market price of our common stock. investors in our securities should carefully consider all of the relevant factors, including, but not limited to, the following factors, that could affect our stock price. our quarterly results are unpredictable and subject to substantial fluctuations, and, as a result, we may fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. our revenues and operating results may vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter due to a number of factors, man y of which are outside of our control and any of which may cause our stock price to fluctuate. the factors that may cause our quarterly results to be unpredictable include, but are not limited to: limited visibility into customer spending plans, changes in the mix of products and services sold, changes in geographies in which our products and services are sold, changing market conditions, current and potential customer consolidation, competition, customer concentration, long sales and implementation cycles, regional economic and political conditions, and seasonality. for example, many companies in our industry experience adverse seasonal fluctuations in customer spending, particularly in the first and third quarters. as a result of these risk factors, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of operating results are not necessarily a good indication of what our future performance will be. it is likely that in some future quarters, our operating results may be below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, in which case the price of our common stock may decline. such a decline could occur, and has occurred in the past, even when we have met our publicly stated revenues and/or earnings guidance. fluctuating economic conditions make it difficult to predi ct revenues for a particular period and a shortfall in revenues or increase in costs of production may harm our operating results. our revenues depend significantly on general economic conditions and the demand for products in the markets in which we compete. economic weakness, customer financial difficulties, and constrained spending on network expansion and enterprise infrastructure have resulted in certain historical periods, and may in the future result, in decreased revenues and earnings and could make it difficult to forecast sales and operating results and could negatively affect our ability to provide forecasts to our contract manufacturers and manage our contract manufacturer relationships and other expenses. in addition, the recent recession and economic weakness , particularly in the united states and europe, as well as turmoil in the geopolitical environment in many parts of the world, may continue to put pressure on global economic conditions, which could lead to reduced demand for our products and/or higher costs of production. continued economic weakness may also lead to longer collection cycles for payments due from our customers, an increase in customer bad debt, restructuring initiatives and associated expenses, and impairment of investments. furthermore, the continued weakness and uncertainty in worldwide credit markets may adversely impact the ability of our customers to adequately fund their expected capital expenditures, which could lead to delays or cancellations of planned purchases of our products or services. in addition, our operating expenses are largely based on anticipated revenue trends and a high percentage of our expenses is, and will continue to be, fixed in the short and medium term. uncertainty about future economic conditions makes it difficult to forecast operating results and to make decisions about future investments. future or continued economic weakness, failure of our customers and markets to recover from such weakness, customer financial difficulties, increases in costs of production, and reductions in spending on network maintenance and expansion could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and consequently on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. a limited number of our customers comprise a significant portion of our revenues and any decrease in revenues from these customers could have an adverse effect on our net revenues and operating results. a substantial majority of our net revenues depend on sales to a limited number of customers and distribution partners. for example, verizon accounted for greater than 10% of our net revenues for the year ended december 31, 2010. changes in the 15 table of contents business requirements, vendor selection, financial prospects, capital resources, or purchasing behavior of our key customers could significantly decrease sales to such customers or could lead to delays or cancellations of planned purchases of our products or services, which increases the risk of quarterly fluctuations in our revenues and operating results. any of these factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition, in recent years, there has been consolidation in the telecommunications industry (for example, the acquisitions of at&amp;t, inc., mci, inc., and bellsouth corporation). if our customers or partners are parties to consolidation transactions they may suspend or indefinitely reduce their purchases of our products or other unforeseen consequences could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. if we receive product orders late in a quarter, we may be unable to recognize revenue for these orders in the same period, which could adversely affect our quarterly revenues. generally, our infrastructure products are not stocked by distributors or resellers due to their cost and complexity and configurations required by our customers, and we generally build such products as orders are received. in recent years, the volume of orders received late in any given fiscal quarter has generally continued to increase but remains unpredictable. if orders for certain products are received late in any quarter, we may not be able to build, ship, and recognize revenue for these orders in the same period, which could adversely affect our ability to meet our expected revenues for such quarter. additionally, we determine our operating expenses largely on the basis of anticipated revenues and a high percentage of our expenses are fixed in the short and medium term. as a result, a failure or delay in generating or recognizing revenue could cause significant variations in our operating results and operating margin from quarter-to-quarter. the long sales and implementation cycles for our products, as well as our expectation that some customers will sporadically place large orders with short lead times, may cause our revenues and operating results to vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter. a customer's decision to purchase certain of our products involves a significant commitment of its resources and a lengthy evaluation and product qualification process. as a result, the sales cycle may be lengthy. in particular, customers making critical decisio ns regarding the design and implementation of large network deployments may engage in very lengthy procurement processes that may delay or impact expected future orders. throughout the sales cycle, we may spend considerable time educating and providing information to prospective customers regarding the use and benefits of our products. even after making the decision to purchase, customers may deploy our products slowly and deliberately. timing of deployment can vary widely and depends on the skill set of the customer, the size of the network deployment, the complexity of the customer's network environment, and the degree of hardware and operating system configuration necessary to deploy the products. customers with large networks usually expand their networks in large increments on a periodic basis. accordingly, we may receive purchase orders for significant dollar amounts on an irregular basis. these long cycles, as well as our expectation that customers will tend to sporadically place large orders with sho rt lead times, may cause revenues and operating results to vary significantly and unexpectedly from quarter-to-quarter. we face intense competition that could reduce our revenues and adversely affect our business and financial results. competition is intense in the markets that we address. the infrastructure market has historically been dominated by cisco with competition coming from other companies such as alcatel-lucent, brocade, extreme networks, hewlett packard company, and huawei. in the slt market , we face intense competition from a broader group of companies such as checkpoint, cisco, f5 networks, and riverbed. in addition, a number of other small public and private companies have products or have announced plans for new products to address the same challenges and markets that our products address. in addition, actual or speculated consolidation among competitors, or the acquisition of our partners and/or resellers by competitors, can increase the competitive pressures faced by us as customers may delay spending decisions. in this regard, ericsson acquired redback in 2007, and brocade acquired foundry networks in 2009. a number of our competitors have substantially greater resources and can offer a wider range of products and services for the overall network equip ment market than we do. if we are unable to compete successfully against existing and future competitors on the basis of product offerings or price, we could experience a loss in market share and revenues and/or be required to reduce prices, which could reduce our gross margins, and which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 16 table of contents we rely on value-added and other resellers, distribution partners, and oem partners to sell our products, and disruptions to, or our failure to effectively develop and manage our distribution channel and the processes and procedures that support it could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues from the sale of our products. our future success is highly dependent upon establishing and maintaining successful relationships with a variety of value-added and other reseller and distribution partners, including our worldwide strategic partners such as ericsson, ibm, and nsn. the majority of our revenues are derived through value-added resellers and distributors, most of which also sell our competitors&rsquo; products. our revenues depend in part on the performance of these partners. the loss of or reduction in sales to our value-added resellers or distributors could materially reduce our revenues. for example, in 2006, one of our largest resellers, lucent, merged with alcatel, a competitor of ours. as a result of the merger, alcatel became a competitor, their resale of our products declined, and we ultimately terminated our reseller agreement with alcatel. our competitors may in some cases be effective in providing incentives to current or potential resellers and distributors to favor their products or to prevent or reduce sales of our products. if we fail to develop and maintain relationships with our partners, fail to develop new relationships with value-added resellers and distributors in new markets, or expand the number of distributors and resellers in existing ma rkets, fail to manage, train or motivate existing value-added resellers and distributors effectively, or if these partners are not successful in their sales efforts, sales of our products may decrease, and our business, financial condition, and results of operations would suffer. in addition, we recognize a portion of our revenues based on a sell-through model using information provided by our distributors. if those distributors provide us with inaccurate or untimely information, the amount or timing of our revenues could be adversely impacted. further, in order to develop and expand our distribution channel, we must continue to scale and improve our processes and procedures that support it, and those processes and procedures may become increasingly complex and inherently difficult to manage. for example, in 2009, we entered into an agreement to form a joint venture with nsn to develop and resell joint carrier ethernet solutions and entered into oem agreements with dell and ibm pursuant to which they rebrand and resell our products as part of their product portfolios. these relationships are complex and require additional processes and procedures that may be challenging and costly to implement, maintain and manage. our failure to successfully manage and develop our distribution channel and the processes and procedures that support it could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues from the sale of our products. governmental regulations affecting the import or export of products or affecting products containing encryption capabilities could negatively affect our revenues. the united states and various foreign governments have imposed controls, export license requirements, and restrictions on the import or export of some technologies, especially encryption technology. in addition, from time to time, governmental agencies have proposed additional regulation of encryption technology, such as requiring certification, notifications, review of source code, or the escrow and governmental recovery of private encryption keys. for example, r ussia and china recently have implemented new requirements relating to products containing encryption and india has imposed special warranty and other obligations associated with technology deemed critical. governmental regulation of encryption technology and regulation of imports or exports, or our failure to obtain required import or export approval for our products, could harm our international and domestic sales and adversely affect our revenues. in addition, failure to comply with such regulations could result in penalties, costs, and restrictions on import or export privileges or adversely affect sales to government agencies or government funded projects. our ability to process orders and ship products in a timely manner is dependen t in part on our business systems and performance of the systems and processes of third parties such as our contract manufacturers, suppliers, or other partners, as well as the interfaces between our systems and the systems of such third parties. if our systems, the systems and processes of those third parties, or the interfaces between them experience delays or fail, our business processes and our ability to build and ship products could be impacted, and our financial results could be harmed. some of our business processes depend upon our it systems, the systems, and processes of third parties, and on the interfaces of our systems with the systems of third parties. for example, our order entry system feeds information into the systems of our contract manufacturers, which enables them to build and ship our products. if those systems fail or are interrupted, our processes may function at a diminished level or not at all. this could negatively impact our ability to ship products or otherwise operate our business, and our financial results could be harmed. for example, although it did not adversely affect our shipments, an earthquake in late december of 2006 disrupted our communications with china, where a significant part of our manufacturing occurs. 17 tab le of contents we also rely upon the performance of the systems and processes of our contract manufacturers to build and ship our products. if those systems and processes experience interruption or delay, our ability to build and ship our products in a timely manner may be harmed. for example, as we have expanded our contract manufacturing base to china, we have experienced instances where our contract manufacturer was not able to ship products in the time periods expected by us. if we are not able to ship our products or if product shipments are delayed, our ability to recognize revenue in a timely manner for those products would be affected and our financial results could be harmed. upgrades to key internal systems and processes, and problems with the design or implementation of these systems and processes could interfere with, and therefore harm, our business and operations. we previously initiated a multi-year project to upgrade certain key internal systems and processes, including our company-wide human resources management system, our customer relationship management (&ldquo;crm&rdquo;) system and enterprise resource planning (&ldquo;erp&rdquo;) system. in the first quarter of 2010, we implemented a major upgrade of our crm system. we have invested, a nd will continue to invest, significant capital and human resources in the design and implementation of these systems and processes. any disruptions or delays in the design and implementation of the new systems or processes, particularly any disruptions or delays that impact our operations, could adversely affect our ability to process customer orders, ship products, provide service and support to our customers, bill and track our customers, fulfill contractual obligations, record and transfer information in a timely and accurate manner, file sec reports in a timely manner, or otherwise run our business. even if we do not encounter these adverse effects, the design and implementation of these new systems and processes may be much more costly than we anticipated. if we are unable to successfully design and implement these new systems and processes as planned, or if the implementation of these systems and processes is more costly than anticipated, our business, financial condition, and results of operations co uld be negatively impacted. we expect our gross margin to vary over time, and our recent level of product gross margin may not be sustainable. we expect our product gross margins to vary from quarter-to-quarter, and the gross margins we have recently achieved may not be sustainable and may be adversely affected in the future by numerous factors, including product mix shifts, increased price competition in one or more of the markets in which we compete, increases in material or labor costs, excess produc t component or obsolescence charges from our contract manufacturers, increased costs due to changes in component pricing or charges incurred due to component holding periods if we do not accurately forecast product demand, warranty related issues, or our introduction of new products or entry into new markets with different pricing and cost structures. we are dependent on sole source and limited source suppliers for several key components, which makes us susceptible to shortages or price fluctuations in our supply chain, and we may face increased challenges in supply chain management in the future. during periods of high demand for electronic products, component shortages are possible, and the predictability of the availability of such components may be limited. any future growth in our business and the economy is likely to create greater pressures on us and our suppliers to accurately forecast overall component demand and to establish optimal component levels. if shortages or delays persist, the price of these components may increase, or the components may not be available at all. we may not be able to secure enough components at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build new products in a timely manner, and our revenues and gross margins could suffer until other sources can be developed. for example, from time to time, including the first quarter of 2008, we experienced component shortages that resulted in delays of product shipments. we currently purchase numerous key components, including asics, from single or limited sources. the development of alternate sources for those components is time-consuming, difficult, and costly. in addition, the lead times associated with certain components are lengthy and preclude rapid changes in quantities and delivery schedules. in the event of a component shortage or supply interruption from these suppliers, we may not be able to develop alternate or second sources in a timely manner. if we are unable to buy these components in quantities sufficient to meet our requirements on a timely basis, we will not be able to deliver product to our customers, which would seriously affect present and future sales, which would, in turn, adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition, the development, licensing, or acquisition of new products in the future may increase the complexity of supply chain management. failure to effectively manage the supply of key components and products would adversely affect our business. 18 table of contents if we do not successfully anticipate market needs and opportunities, and develop products and product enhancements that meet those needs and opportunities, or if those products are not made available in a timely manner or do not gain market acceptance, we may not be able to compete effectively and our ability to generate revenues will suffer. we cannot guarantee that we will be able to anticipate future market needs and opportunities or be able to develop new products or product enhancements to meet such needs or opportunities in a timely manner or at all. if we fail to anticipate market requirements or fail to develop and introduce new products or product enhancements to meet those needs in a timely manner, it could cause us to lose customers and such failure could substantially decrease or delay market acceptance and sales of our present and future products, which would significantly harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. even if we are able to anticipate, develop, and commercially introduce new products and enhancements, there can be no assurance that new products or enhancements will achieve widespread market acceptance. for example, in 2010, in connection with the acquisitions of altor and trapeze, we are now offering a wlan product and a virtualization security product. additionally, in 2009, we announced plans to develop and introduce new data center products with our project stratus and mobility solutions with our project falcon. if these or other new products do not gain market acceptance at a sufficient rate of growth, our ability to meet future financial targets may be adversely affected. in addition, if we fail to achieve market acceptance at a sufficient rate of growth, our ability to meet future financial targets and aspirations may be adversely affected. in addition, if we fail to deliver new or announced products to the market in a timely manner, it could adversely affect the market acceptance of those products and harm our competitive position and our business and financial results. changes in effective tax rates or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income or other tax returns could adversely affect our results. our future effective tax rates could be subject to volatility or adversely affected by: earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated earnings in countries where we have higher statutory rates; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; expiration of, or lapses in, the r&amp;d tax credit laws applicable to us; transfer pricing adjustments related to certain acquisitions, including the license of acquired intangibles under our intercompany r&amp;d cost sharing arrangement; tax effects of share-based compensation; costs related to intercompany restructurings; or changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting princ iples, or interpretations thereof. in addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the internal revenue service (&ldquo;irs&rdquo;) and other tax authorities. we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. there can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. for example, in 2009, we received a proposed adjustment from the irs claiming that we owe additional taxes, plus interest and possible penalties, for the 2004 tax year based on a transfer pricing transaction related to the license of acquired intangibles unde r an intercompany r&amp;d cost sharing arrangement. as a result of the proposed adjustment, the incremental tax liability would be approximately $807 million excluding interest and penalties. we believe the irs&rsquo; position with regard to this matter is inconsistent with applicable tax laws and existing treasury regulations, and that our previously reported income tax provision for the year in question is appropriate. however, there can be no assurance that this matter will be resolved in our favor. regardless of whether this matter is resolved in our favor, the final resolution of this matter could be expensive and time-consuming to defend and/or settle. while we believe we have provided adequately for this matter, there is a possibility that an adverse outcome of the matter could have a material effect on our results of operations and financial condition. telecommunications companies and our other large customers generally require more onerous terms and conditions in our contracts with them. as we seek to sell more products to such customers, we may be required to agree to terms and conditions that could have an adverse effect on our business or ability to recognize revenues. telecommunications service provider companies and other large companies, because of their size, generally have greater purchasing power and, accordingly, have requested and received more favorable terms, which often translate into more onerous terms and conditions from us. as we seek to sell more products to t his class of customer, we may be required to agree to such terms and conditions, which may include terms that affect the timing of our ability to recognize revenue and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. consolidation among such large customers can further increase their buying power and ability to require onerous terms. for example, customers in this class have purchased products from other vendors who promised but failed to deliver certain functionality and/or had products that caused problems or outages in the networks of these customers. as a result, this class of 19 table of contents customers may request additional features from us and require substantial penalties for failure to deliver such features or may require substantial penalties for any network outages that may be caused by our products. these additional requests and penalties, if we are required to agree to them, may require us to defer revenue recognition from such sales, which may negatively affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. if we fail to accurately predict our manufacturing requirements, we could incur additional costs or experience manufacturing delays, which would harm our business. we provide demand forecasts to our contract manufacturers and the manufacturers order components and plan capacity based on these forecasts. if we overestimate our requirements, our contract manufacturers may assess charges, or we may have liabilities for excess inventory, each of which could negatively affect our gross margins. conversely, because lead times for req uired materials and components vary significantly and depend on factors such as the specific supplier, contract terms, and the demand for each component at a given time, if we underestimate our requirements, as we did in the third quarter of 2010 with respect to certain components, our contract manufacturers may have inadequate time, materials, and/or components required to produce our products, which could increase costs or could delay or interrupt manufacturing of our products and result in delays in shipments and deferral or loss of revenues. we are dependent on contract manufacturers with whom we do not have long-term supply contracts, and changes to those relationships, expected or unexpected, may result in delays or disruptions that could cause us to lose revenues and damage our customer relationships. we depend on independent contract manufacturers (each of which is a third-party manufacturer for numerous companies) to manufacture our products. although we have contracts with our contract manufacturers, these contracts do not require them to manufacture our products on a long-term basis in any specific quantity or at any specific price. in addition, it is time-consuming and costly to qualify and implement additional contract manufacturer relationships. therefore, if we fail to effectively manage our contract manufacturer relationships or if one or more of them experiences delays, disruptions, or quality control problems in our manufacturing operations, or if we had to change or add additional contra ct manufacturers or contract manufacturing sites, our ability to ship products to our customers could be delayed. also, the addition of manufacturing locations or contract manufacturers would increase the complexity of our supply chain management. moreover, an increasing portion of our manufacturing is performed in china and other countries and is therefore subject to risks associated with doing business in other countries. each of these factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. integration of acquisitions could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition and stock price and may dilute the ownership of our stockholders. we have made, and may continue to make, acquisitions in order to enhance our business. for example, in december 2010 we acquired altor and trapeze, in july 2010 we acquired smobile, and in april 2010 we acquired ankeena. acquisitions involve numerous risks, including problems combining the purchased operations, technologies or products, unanticipated costs, diversion of management's attention from our core businesses, adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers, risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience, and potential loss of key employees. there can be no assurance that we will be able to integrate successfully any businesses, products, technologies, or personnel that we might acquire. the integration of businesses that we may acquire is likely to be a complex, time-consuming, and expensive process. acquisitions may also require us to issue common stock or assume equity awards that dilute the ownership of our current stockholders, assume liabilities, record goodwill and amortizable intangible assets that will be subject to impairment testing on a regular basis and potential periodic impairment charges, incur amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets, and incur large and immediate write-offs and restructuring and other related expenses, all of which could harm our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, if we fail in any acquisition integration efforts and are unable to efficiently operate as a combined organization utilizing common information and communication systems, operating procedures, financial controls, and human resources practices, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected. our ability to develop, market, and sell products could be harmed if we are unable to retain or hire key personnel. our future success depends upon our ability to recruit and retain the services of executive, engineering, sales and marketing, and support personnel. the supply of highly qualified individuals, in particular engineers in very specialized technical areas , or sales people specializing in the service provider and enterprise markets, is limited and competition for such individuals is 20 table of contents intense. none of our officers or key employees is bound by an employment agreement for any specific term. the loss of the services of any of our key employees, the inability to attract or retain personn el in the future or delays in hiring required personnel, particularly engineers and sales people, and the complexity and time involved in replacing or training new employees, could delay the development and introduction of new products, and negatively impact our ability to market, sell, or support our products. we are a party to lawsuits, which are costly to defend and, if determined adversely to us, could require us to pay damages or prevent us from taking certain actions, any or all of which could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we, and certain of our current and former officers and current and former members of our board of directors, are subject to various lawsuits. we have been served with lawsuits related to patent infringement as well as securities laws, a description of which can be found in note 15, commitments and contingencies, in notes to consolidated financial statements of this annual report on form 10-k, under the heading &ldquo;legal proceedings.&rdquo; there can be no assurance that these or any actions that have been or may be brought against us, our officers, and our directors will be resolved favorably or that tentative settlements will become final. regardless of whether they are resolved, these lawsuits are, and any future lawsuits to which we, our officers, or our directors may become a party will likely be, expensive a nd time-consuming to defend, settle, and/or resolve. such costs of defense, as well as any losses resulting from these claims or settlement of these claims, could significantly increase our expenses and could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. litigation or claims regarding intellectual property rights may be time - consuming, expensive, and require a significant amount of resources to prosecute, defend, or make our products non-infringing. third parties have asserted and may in the future assert claims or initiate litigation related to patent, copyright, trademark, and other intellectual property rights to technologies and related standards that are relevant to our products. the asserted claims and/or initiated litigation may include claims against us or our manufacturers, suppliers, partners, or customers, alleging that our products or services infringe proprietary rights. regardless of the merit of these claims, they have been and can be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, and may require us to develop non-infringing technologies or enter into license agreements. furthermore, because of the potential for high awards of damages or injunctive relief that are not necessarily predictable, even arguably unmeritorious claims may be settled for significant amounts of money. if any infringement or other intellectual property c laim made against us by any third-party is successful, if we are required to settle litigation for significant amounts of money, or if we fail to develop non-infringing technology or license required proprietary rights on commercially reasonable terms and conditions, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. our success depends upon our ability to effectively plan and manage our resources and restructure our business through rapidly fluctuating economic and market conditions. our ability to successfully offer our products and services in a rapidly evolving market requires an effective planning, forecasting, and management process to enable us to effectively scale and adjust our business in response to fluctuating market opportunities and conditions. in periods of market expansion, we have increased investment in our business by, for example, increasing headcount and increasing our investment in r&amp;d, sales and marketing, and other parts of our business as we have in the year ended december 31, 2010. conversely, during 2009, in response to downward trending industry and market conditions, we restructured our business, rebalanced our workforce, and reduced our real estate portfolio. many of our expenses, such as real estate expenses, cannot be rapidly or easily adjusted because of fluctuations in our business or numbers of employees. moreover, rapid changes in the size of our workforce could adversely affect our ability to develop and deliver products and services as planned or impair our ability to realize our current or future business objectives. regulation of the telecommunications industry could harm our operating results and future prospects. the traditional telecommunications industry is highly regulated, and our business and financial condition could be adversely affected by changes in regulations relating to the internet telecommunications industry. currently, there are few laws or regulations that apply directly to access to or com merce on ip networks. we could be adversely affected by regulation of ip networks and commerce in any country where we market equipment and services to service or content providers. regulations governing the range of services and business models that can be offered by service providers or content providers could adversely affect those customers' needs for products designed to enable a wide range of such services or business models. for instance, the u.s. federal communications commission has issued regulations governing aspects of fixed broadband networks and wireless networks; these regulations might impact service provider and content provider business models and as such, 21 table of contents providers' needs for internet telecommunications equipment and services. in addition, environmental regulations relevant to electronic equipment manufacturing or operations may impact our business and financial condition adversely. for instance, the european union has adopted weee, rohs and reach regulations. in addition, some governments have regulations prohibiting government entities from purchasing security products that d o not meet specified indigenous certification criteria even though those criteria may be in conflict with accepted international standards. similar regulations are in effect or under consideration in several jurisdictions where we do business. the adoption and implementation of such regulations could decrease demand for our products, increase the cost of building and selling our products and impact our ability to ship products into affected areas and recognize revenue in a timely manner. any of these impacts could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. a breach of network security could harm public perception of our security products, which could cause us to lose revenues. if an actual or perceived breach of network security occurs in our network or in the network of a customer of our security products, regardless of whether the breach is attributable to our products, the market perception of the effectiveness of our products could be harmed. because the techniques used by computer hackers to access or sabotage networks change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques. this could cause us to lose current and potential end-customers or cause us to lose current and potential value-added resellers and distributors. we are subject to risks arising from our international operations, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we derive a majority of our revenues from our international operations, and we plan to continue expanding our business in international markets in the future. we conduct significant sales and customer support operations directly and indirectly through our distributors and value-added resellers in countries throughout the world and depend on the operations of our contract manufacturers and suppliers that are located outside of the united states. in addition, a portion of our r&amp;d and our general and a dministrative operations are conducted outside the united states. as a result of our international operations, we are affected by economic, regulatory, social, and political conditions in foreign countries, including changes in general it spending, the imposition of government controls, changes or limitations in trade protection laws, other regulatory requirements, which may affect our ability to import or export our products from various countries, service provider and government spending patterns affected by political considerations, unfavorable changes in tax treaties or laws, natural disasters, epidemic disease, labor unrest, earnings expatriation restrictions, misappropriation of intellectual property, military actions, acts of terrorism, political and social unrest a nd difficulties in staffing and managing international operations. in particular, in some countries, we may experience reduced intellectual property protection. any or all of these factors could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. moreover, local laws and customs in many countries differ significantly from those in the united states. in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common for others to engage in business practices that are prohibited by our internal policies and procedures or united states regulations applicable to us. there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, and agents will not take actions in violation of our policies and procedures, which are designed to ensure compliance with u.s. and foreign laws and policies . violations of laws or key control policies by our employees, contractors, or agents could result in financial reporting problems, fines, penalties, or prohibition on the importation or exportation of our products, and could have a material adverse effect on our business , financial condition and results of operations . we are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could negatively affect our financial condition and results of ope rations. because a majority of our business is conducted outside the united states, we face exposure to adverse movements in non-u.s. currency exchange rates. these exposures may change over time as business practices evolve and could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. the majority of our revenues and expenses are transacted in u.s. dollars. we also have some transactions that are denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the british pound, euro, indian rupee, and japanese yen related to our sales and service operations outside of the united states. an increase in the value of the u.s. dollar could increase the real cost to our customers of our products in those markets outside the united states in which we sell in u.s. dollars, and a weakened u.s. dollar could 22 table of contents increase the cost of local operating expenses and procurement of raw materials to the extent we must purchase components in foreign currencies. currently, we hedge only those currency exposures associated with certain assets and liabilities denominated in nonfunctional currencies and periodically hedge anticipated foreign currency cash flows. the hedging activities undertaken by us are intended to offset the impact of currency fluctuations on certain nonfunctional currency assets and liabilities. however, no amount of hedging can be effective against all circumstances, including long-term declines in the value of the u.s. dollar. if our attempts to hedge against these risks are not successful, or if long-term declines in the value of the u.s. dollar persist, our financial condition and results of operations could be adver sely impacted. if we fail to adequately evolve our financial and managerial control and reporting systems and processes, our ability to manage and grow our business will be negatively affected. our ability to successfully offer our products and implement our business plan in a rapidly evolving market depends upon an effective planning and management process. we will need to continue to improve our financial and managerial control and our reporting systems and procedures in order to manage our business e ffectively in the future. if we fail to continue to implement improved systems and processes, our ability to manage our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be negatively affected. we sell our products to customers that use those products to build networks and ip infrastructure, and if the demand for network and ip systems does not continue to grow, then our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. a substantial portion of our business and revenues depends on the growth of secure ip infrastructure and on the deployment of our products by customers that depend on the continued growth of ip services. as a result of changes in the economy capital spending or the building of network capacity in excess of demand, all of which have in the past particularly affected telecommunications service providers, spending on ip infrastructure can vary, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition, a number of our existing customers are evaluating the build out of their next generation networks. during the decision-making period when the customers are determining the design of those networks and the selection of the equipment they will use in those networks, such customers may greatly reduce or suspend their spending on secure ip infrastructure. such delays in purchases can make it more difficult to predict revenues from such customers, can cause fluctuations in the level of spendin g by these customers and, even where our products are ultimately selected, can have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our products are highly technical and if they contain undetected errors, our business could be adversely affected, and we may need to defend lawsuits or pay damages in connection with any alleged or actual failure of our products and services. our products are highly technical and complex, are critical to the operation of many netw orks, and, in the case of our security products, provide and monitor network security and may protect valuable information. our products have contained and may contain one or more undetected errors, defects, or security vulnerabilities. some errors in our products may only be discovered after a product has been installed and used by end-customers. any errors, defects, or security vulnerabilities discovered in our products after commercial release could result in loss of revenues or delay in revenue recognition, loss of customers, loss of future business and reputation, and increased service and warranty cost, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition, in the event an error, defect, or vulnerability is attributable to a component supplied by a third-party vendor, we may not be able to recover from the vendor all of the costs of remediation that we may incur. in addition, we could face claims for product liability, tort, or breach of warranty. defending a lawsuit, regardless of its merit, is costly and may divert management&rsquo;s attention. in addition, if our business liability insurance coverage is inadequate, or future coverage is unavailable on acceptable terms or at all, our financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. if our products do not interoperate with our customers&rsquo; networks, installations will be delayed or cancelled and could harm our business. our products are designed to interface with our customers &rsquo; existing networks, each of which have different specifications and utilize multiple protocol standards and products from other vendors. many of our customers&rsquo; networks contain multiple generations of products that have been added over time as these networks have grown and evolved. our products must interoperate with many or all of the products within these networks as well as future products in order to meet our customers&rsquo; requirements. if we find errors in the existing software or defects in the hardware used in our customers&rsquo; networks, we may 23 table of contents need to modify our software or hardware to fix or overcome these errors so that our products will interoperate and scale with the existing software and hardware, which could be costly and could negatively affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition, if our products do not interoperate with those of our customers&rsquo; networks, demand for our products could be adversely affected or orders for our products could be cancelled. this could hurt our operating results, damage our reputation, and seriously harm our business and prospects. our products incorporate and rely upon licensed third-party technology, and if licenses of third-party technology do not continue to be available to us or become very expensive, our revenues and ability to develop and introduce new products could be adversely affected. we integrate licensed third-party technology into certain of our products. from time to time, we may be required to license additional technology from third-parties to develop new products or product enhancements. third-party licenses may not be available or continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms. the failure to comply with the terms of any license may result in our inability to continue to use such license. our inability to maintain or re-license any third-party licenses required in our products or our inability to obtain third-party licenses necessary to develop new products and product enhancements, could require us, if possible, to develop substitute technology or obtain substitute technology of lower quality or performance standards or at a greater cost, any of which could delay or prevent product shipment and harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our financial condition and results of operations could suffer if there is an additional impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets with indefinite lives. we are required to test annually and review on an interim basis, our goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives, including the goodwill associated with past acquisitions and any future acquisitions, to determine if impairment has occurred. as of december 31, 2010, our goodwill was $3,927.8 million. if such assets are deemed impaired, an impairment loss equal to the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the fair value of the assets would be recognized. this would result in incremental expenses for that quarter, which would reduce any earnings or increase any loss for the period in which the impairment was determined to have occurred. for example, such impairment could occur if the market value of our common stock falls below certain levels for a sustained period, or if the portions of our business related t o companies we have acquired fail to grow at expected rates or decline. in the second quarter of 2006, our impairment evaluation resulted in a reduction of $1,280.0 million to the carrying value of goodwill on our balance sheet for the slt operating segment, primarily due to the decline in our market capitalization that occurred over a period of approximately nine months prior to the impairment review and, to a lesser extent, a decrease in forecasted future cash flows. in recent years, economic weakness contributed to extreme price and volume fluctuations in global stock markets that reduced the market price of many technology company stocks, including ours. future declines in our stock price, as well as any marked decline in our level of revenues or gross margins, increase the risk that goodwill and intangible assets may become impaired in future periods. we cannot accurately predict the amount and timing of any impairment of assets. while we believe that we currently have adequate internal control over financial reporting, we are exposed to risks from legislation requiring companies to evaluate those internal controls. section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 requires our management to report on, and our independent auditors to attest to, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. we have an ongoing program to perform the system and process evaluation and testing necessary to comply with these requirements. we have and will continue to incur significant expenses an d devote management resources to section 404 compliance on an ongoing basis. in the event that our chief executive officer, chief financial officer, or independent registered public accounting firm determine in the future that, our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective as defined under section 404, investor perceptions may be adversely affected if our financial statements are not reliable and could cause a decline in the market price of our stock and otherwise negatively affect our liquidity and financial condition. the investment of our cash balance and our investments in government and corporate debt securities are subject to risks, which may cause losses and affect the liquidity of these investments. at december 31, 2010, we had $1,811.9 million in cash and cash equivalents and $1,009.7 million in short- and long-term investments. we have invested these amounts primarily in u.s. government securities, government-sponsored enterprise obligations, foreign government debt securities, corporate notes and bonds, commerci al paper, and money market funds meeting certain criteria. certain of these investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market, and interest rate risks, which may be exacerbated by u.s. sub-prime mortgage defaults that have affected various sectors of the financial markets and 24 table of contents caused credit and liquidity issues at many f inancial institutions. these market risks associated with our investment portfolio may have a negative adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations. uninsured losses could harm our operating results. we self-insure against many business risks and expenses, such as intellectual property litigation and our medical benefit programs, where we believe we can adequately self-insure against the anticipated exposure and risk or where insurance is either not deemed cost-effecti ve or is not available. we also maintain a program of insurance coverage for various types of property, casualty, and other risks. we place our insurance coverage with various carriers in numerous jurisdictions. the types and amounts of insurance that we obtain vary from time to time and from location to location, depending on availability, cost, and our decisions with respect to risk retention. the policies are subject to deductibles, policy limits, and exclusions that result in our retention of a level of risk on a self-insurance basis. losses not covered by insurance could be substantial and unpredictable and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk 52 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk interest rate risk we maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. the value of our investments is subject to market price volatility. in addition, as of december 31, 2010 , over 60% of our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities are held in non-u.s. domiciled countries. our marketable securities are generally classified as available-for-sale and, consequently, are recorded on our consolidated balance sheet at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). at any time, a rise in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our investment portfolio. conversely, a decline in interest rates could have a material impact on interest income from our investment portfolio. we do not curr ently hedge these interest rate exposures. we recognized immaterial gains and losses during the years ended december 31, 2010 , 2009 , and 2008 , related to the sales of our investments. the following tables present hypothetical changes in fair value of the financial instruments held at december 31, 2010 , and 2009 , that are sensitive to changes in interest rates (in millions): valuation of securities given an interest rate decrease of x bps fair value as of december 31, 2010 valuation of securities given an interest rate increase of x bps (150 bps) (100 bps) (50 bps) 50 bps 100 bps 150 bps government treasury and agenc ies $ 457.4 $ 456.3 $ 455.1 $ 454.1 $ 452.8 $ 451.7 $ 450.5 corporate bonds and notes 469.9 467.2 464.4 461.7 459.0 456.2 453.5 foreign government debt securities 47.8 47.5 47.3 47.0 46.8 46.5 46.3 other 1,291.6 1,291.2 1,290.7 1,290.1 1,289.7 1,289.2 1,288.7 total $ 2,266.7 $ 2,262.2 $ 2,257.5 $ 2,252.9 $ 2,248.3 $ 2,243.6 $ 2,239.0 valuation of securities given an interest rate decrease of x bps fair value as of december 31, 2009 valuation of securities given an interest rate increase of x bps (150 bps) (100 bps) (50 bps) 50 bps 100 bps 150 bps government treasury and agencies $ 461.3 $ 460.0 $ 458.7 $ 457.3 $ 456.1 $ 454.8 $ 453.4 corporate bonds and notes 495.4 493.5 491.6 489.8 487.9 486.0 484.2 foreign government debt securities 98.2 97.7 97.2 96.7 96.2 95.7 95.2 other 1,099.7 1,099.7 1,099.7 1,099.7 1,099.6 1,099.6 1,099.6 total $ 2,154.6 $ 2,150.9 $ 2,147.2 $ 2,143.5 $ 2,139.8 $ 2,136.1 $ 2,132.4 these instruments are not leveraged and are held for purposes other than trading. the modeling technique used measures the changes in fair value arising from selected potential changes in interest rates. market changes reflect immediate hypothetical parallel shifts in the yield curve of plus or minus 50 basis points (&ldquo;bps&rdquo;), 100 bps, and 150 bps, which are representative of the historical movements in the federal funds rate. foreign currency risk and foreign exchange forward contracts periodically, we use derivatives to hedge against fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. we do not enter into derivatives for speculative or trading purposes. we use foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate variability in gains and l osses generated from the re-measurement of certain monetary assets and liabilities denominated in non-functional currencies. these derivatives are carried at fair value with changes recorded in other income (expense) in the same period as the changes in the fair value from the re-measurement of the underlying assets and liabilities. these foreign exchange contracts have maturities of approximately two months . our sales and costs of product revenues are primarily denominated in u.s. dollars. our cost of service revenue and operating 52 table of contents expenses are denominated in u.s. dollars as well as other foreign currencies including the british pound, the euro, indian rupee, and japanese yen. periodically, we use foreign currency forward and/or option contracts to hedge certain forecasted foreign currency transactions relating to cost of service revenue and operating expenses. these derivatives are designated as cash flow hedges and have matu rities of less than one year. the effective portion of the derivative's gain or loss is initially reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and, upon occurrence of the forecasted transaction, is subsequently reclassified into the line item in the consolidated statements of operations to which the hedged transaction relates. we record the ineffectiveness of the hedging instruments, which was immaterial during the years ended december 31, 2010 , 2009 , and 2008 , respectively, in other income (expense) on our consolidated statements of ope rations. the change in operating expenses including cost of service revenue, r&amp;d, sales and marketing, and g&amp;a expenses, due to foreign currency fluctuations was approximately 1%, 2%, and 1% in 2010 , 2009 , and 2008 , respectively. equity price risk our portfolio of publicly-traded equity securities and our non-qualified deferred compensation (&ldquo;nqdc&rdquo;) plan, which may also hold publicly-traded equity securities, are inherently exposed to equity price risk as the stock market fluctuates. our publicly-traded equity securities are classified as available-for-sale securities on our consolidated balance sheets. investments under the nqdc plan are considered trading securities and are also reported at fair value on our consolidated balance sheet. we do not purchase our publicly-traded equity securities with the intent to use them for speculative purposes. as of december 31, 2010, we no longer have any investments in publicly-traded equity securities. the aggregate fair value of our publicl y-traded equity securities as of december 31, 2009, was $5.4 million. as of december 31, 2010 , and 2009 , the total investments under the nqdc plan were $8.1 million and $4.7 million , respectively. a hypothetical 30% adverse change on the total investments under the nqdc plan as of december 31, 2010, and 2009 would result in an immaterial loss. we monitor our portfolio publicly-traded equity investments for impairment on a periodic basis. in the event that the carrying value of a public-traded equity investment exceeds its fair value, and we determine the decline in value to be other than temporary, we reduce the carrying value to its current fair value. there were no impairment charges in 2010 and 2009 to our portfolio of publicly-traded equity investments, and in 2008, we realized an impairment charge of $3.5 million. in addition to publicly-traded equity securities, we have also invested in privately-held companies. these investments are carried at cost. in 2009 we realized an impairment charge of $5.5 million on our investments in privately-held companies that we judged to be other than temporary as discussed in note 6, fair value measurements , in notes to consolidated financial statements in item 8 of part ii of this annual report on form 10-k. there were no such charges in 2010 . the aggregate cost of our investments in privately-held companies was $22.1 million and $13.9 million as of december 31, 2010 , and 2009 , respectively. 53 table of contents