quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 51-53 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk and note d of notes to consolidated financial statements for further discussion. gathering and processing general our gathering and processing segment is engaged in the gathering and processing of natural gas and the fractionation, storage and marketing of ngls. we have a processing capacity of approximately 1.993 bcf/d, of which approximately 0.107 bcf/d is currently idle. the remaining capacity associated with plants owned or leased is approximately 1.776 bcf/d, while the amount of the plant capacity that we own an interest in but do not operate is approximately 0.110 bcf/d. we own approximately 13,962 miles of gathering pipelines that supply our gas processing plants. operating income from the gathering and processing segment is 8.9 percent, 17.0 percent, and 34.2 percent of the consolidated operating income from continuing operations in 2002, 2001, and 2000, respectively. the gathering and processing segment has no single external customer from which it receives ten percent or more of consolidated revenues. the gas processing operation includes the extraction of ngls from natural gas and the fractionation (separation) of mixed ngls into component products (ethane, propane, iso butane, normal butane and natural gasoline). we also extract helium, 8 table of contents from time to time, at two of our plants located in kansas. the ngl component products are used by and sold to a diverse customer base of end users for petrochemical feedstock, residential uses, and blending into motor fuels. the gathering operation, which connects unaffiliated and affiliated producing wells to the processing plants, consists of the gathering of natural gas through pipeline systems, including compression and dehydration services. we generally process gas under three types of contracts. under our percent of proceeds (pop) contracts, the producer is paid a percentage of the market value of the natural gas and ngls that are processed. our keep whole contracts allow us to replace the btu extracted as ngls with equivalent btu of natural gas, which keeps the producer whole on btu and allows us to retain and sell the ngls. under fee contracts, we are paid a cash fee for gas processing. during 2002, we processed an average of 1,411 mmmbtu/d of natural gas and produced an average of 72.8 mbbls/d of ngls. we market our ngl production through oneok ngl marketing and also purchase ngls from third parties for resale. during 2002, we sold approximately 95.4 mbbls/d of ngls to a diverse base of customers. market conditions and business seasonality during the year, both crude oil and natural gas prices were volatile with nymex crude prices ranging from $18.34 to $30.11 per barrel and nymex natural gas prices ranging from $2.01 to $4.14 per mmbtu. the continued weak economy reduced the demand for many ngl products, particularly ethane and propane, which are major components of plastic products. despite significant consolidation in the recent past, the u.s. midstream industry remains relatively fragmented and faces competition from a variety of companies including major integrated oil companies, major pipeline companies and their affiliated marketing companies, and national and local gas gatherers, processors and marketers. competition exists for obtaining gas supplies for gathering and processing operations, obtaining supplies of raw product for fractionation and the transportation of natural gas and ngls. the factors that affect competition typically arise as a result of the efficiency and reliability of the operations, price and delivery capabilities. we have responded to these industry conditions by acquiring assets, most of which are strategically located near our existing assets, reducing costs, rationalizing assets in non-core operating areas and renegotiating unprofitable contracts. the principal goal of these efforts is to mitigate the variability of earnings and cash flow caused by fluctuations in commodity prices. the gathering and processing segment is subject to seasonality. products are used for heating and are normally more in demand during the months of november through march. accordingly, the prices of these products are typically higher in the winter. acquisitions and divestitures in december 2002, we completed the sale of three processing plants and related gathering assets, along with our interest in a fourth processing plant, all located in oklahoma, to an affiliate of mustang fuel corporation. these plants had a processing capacity of 0.136 bcf/d. the sale also included approximately 2,800 miles of gathering pipelines that supply our gas processing plants. in april 2000, we acquired certain natural gas gathering and processing assets from kmi. this acquisition included natural gas processing plants with a capacity of approximately 1.26 bcf/d and 6,400 miles of gathering lines. in march 2000, we acquired natural gas processing plants with a capacity of approximately 375 mmcf/d and approximately 7,000 miles of gas gathering and transmission pipeline systems from dynegy. government regulation the ferc has traditionally maintained that a processing plant is not a facility for transportation or sale for resale of natural gas in interstate commerce and therefore is not subject to jurisdiction under the natural gas act (nga). although the ferc has made no specific declaration as to the jurisdictional status of our gas processing operations or facilities, our gas processing plants are primarily involved in removing natural gas liquids and therefore, we believe, are exempt from ferc jurisdiction. the nga also exempts natural gas gathering facilities from the jurisdiction of the ferc. interstate transmission facilities, on the other hand, remain subject to ferc jurisdiction. the ferc has historically distinguished between these two types of facilities on a fact-specific basis. we believe our gathering facilities and operations meet the criteria used by the ferc to determine a non-jurisdictional gathering facility status. we can transport residue gas from our plants to interstate pipelines in accordance with section 311(a) of the natural gas policy act (ngpa). the states of oklahoma, kansas and texas also have statutes regulating, in various degrees, the gathering of gas in those states. in each state, regulation is applied on a case-by-case basis if a complaint is filed against the gatherer with the appropriate state regulatory agency. 9 table of contents risk management derivative instruments are used to minimize volatility in ngl and natural gas prices. accordingly, we, at times, use derivative instruments to hedge the purchase and sale of natural gas used for or produced by our operations. we also, from time to time, use derivative instruments to secure a certain price for ngl products. see item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk and note d of notes to the consolidated financial statements. transportation and storage general our transportation and storage segment provides intrastate natural gas pipeline transportation, section 311(a) of the ngpa interstate transportation, nonprocessable gas gathering and storage services in oklahoma, kansas, and texas. we conduct this business primarily through wholly-owned intrastate pipeline companies with approximately 7,700 miles of pipe and wholly-owned storage companies with a working storage capacity of approximately 59.6 bcf. in oklahoma, we operate ogt and ogs. these companies have approximately 2,858 miles of pipeline and five storage facilities with a combined working storage capacity of 44.6 bcf. one of these storage facilities is leased through a long-term agreement through which we retained 3 bcf of working storage capacity for our own use. our distribution segment is this segment major customer for intrastate natural gas pipeline transportation in oklahoma. capacity in the storage facilities is leased to both oemt and third parties under terms determined by contract or market. in december 2002, we sold properties and as part of the transaction retained 3 bcf of working storage capacity. a $3.4 million expansion to increase deliverability from the ogs depew storage field was completed in the spring of 2000. the oklahoma transmission system transported 257.2 bcf in 2002, 253.9 bcf in 2001, and 299.1 bcf in 2000. ogt provides access to the major natural gas producing areas in oklahoma. the system intersects 11 intrastate and interstate pipelines at 27 interconnect points and connects 21 processing plants and approximately 130 producing fields, allowing gas to be moved throughout the state. in kansas, we operate mcmc. in july 2002, we completed a transaction to transfer certain transmission assets in kansas from mcmc to our affiliated distribution company in kansas. all historical financial and statistical information has been adjusted to reflect this transfer. mcmc currently operates 204 miles of pipeline and three gas storage facilities with approximately 5.6 bcf of working storage capacity. in january 2001, the yaggy storage facility operating parameters were changed as mandated by the kdhe following natural gas explosions and eruptions of natural gas geysers in or near hutchinson, kansas. this removed injection capabilities related to 3 bcf of our kansas working storage capacity. we are considering the steps necessary to return the field to full service, but final steps will not be determined until the final kdhe regulations are issued, which is expected in 2003. mcmc has access to the major natural gas producing area in south central kansas. the system intersects four different intrastate and interstate pipelines at six interconnect points and is connected to two processing plants and associated producing fields. in texas, we operate westex and otgs. these companies have approximately 4,701 miles of pipeline and three storage facilities. total working storage capacity is approximately 9.4 bcf. both westex and otgs were acquired from kmi in april 2000. the texas transmission system transported 227.3 bcf in 2002, 206.4 bcf in 2001 and 170.8 bcf in 2000. westex is connected to the major natural gas producing areas in the texas panhandle and the permian basin. the system intersects with a total of 11 different interstate and intrastate pipelines at 32 interconnect points and 11 natural gas processing plants and two producing fields. this system provides for gas to be moved to the waha hub for transportation to the east to the houston ship channel market and west to the california market. this pipeline allows us to provide service to the city of el paso, texas. the loop storage facility remains operational with both injection and withdrawal capabilities. however, due to certain unresolved contractual issues, this facility is being used minimally. as a result of the reduced utilization, we have approximately 5 bcf less of texas working storage capacity in use. ogg operates our gathering pipelines that are connected to our transmission pipelines, including gathering systems previously owned by ogt and oneok producer services, l.l.c. the majority of the transportation and storage segment revenues are derived from services provided to affiliates. operating income from the transportation and storage segment is 14.4 percent, 20.8 percent, and 17.6 percent of consolidated operating income from continuing operations in 2002, 2001, and 2000, respectively. the transportation and storage segment has no single external customer from which it receives ten percent or more of consolidated revenues. market conditions and seasonality the transportation and storage segment primarily serves local distribution companies (ldcs), large industrial companies and marketing companies that serve both ldcs and large industrial customers. we compete directly with other intrastate and interstate pipelines and storage facilities within each of their 10 table of contents respective states. competition for transportation services continues to increase as the ferc and state regulatory bodies introduce more competition in the natural gas markets. factors that affect competition are location, price and quality of services provided. this industry is significantly affected by the strength of the economy and price volatility. we believe that the working capacity of our transportation and storage assets enables us to compete effectively. the transportation and storage segment is impacted by various weather conditions. transportation quantities fluctuate due to rainfall, which impacts irrigation demand, hot temperatures, which affect power generation demand, and cold temperatures that affect heating demand. historically, customers have purchased and stored gas in the summer months when prices were lower and withdrew gas during the heating season; however, increased price volatility in the natural gas market can mitigate the seasonality effect by influencing decisions relating to injection and withdrawal of natural gas in storage. government regulations our transportation assets in oklahoma are regulated by the occ and in kansas are regulated by the kcc. we have flexibility in establishing transportation rates with customers; however, there is a maximum rate that we can charge our customers in both states. our transportation and storage assets located in texas are regulated by the trc. we have flexibility in establishing transportation rates with customers; however, if a rate cannot be agreed upon, the rate is established by the trc. in january 2001, the yaggy storage facility operating parameters were changed as mandated by the kdhe following natural gas explosions and eruptions of natural gas geysers in or near hutchinson, kansas. this removed injection capabilities related to 3 bcf of our kansas storage capacity. we are considering the steps necessary to return the field to full service, but final steps will not be determined until the final kdhe regulations are issued, which are expected in 2003. customers the transportation and storage segment serves the affiliated companies of the distribution segment and marketing and trading segment, as well as a number of transporters in the utilization of the transportation and storage facilities. each of the companies provides flexible service alternatives to serve consumers. in june 2001, we announced the execution of long-term agreements between ogt and intergen north america (intergen) for firm transportation service to intergen gas fueled redbud energy facility near luther, oklahoma, in the amount of 200 mmcf/d. in june 2001, commercial operation for gas transportation began to the nrg mcclain generating facility, which is connected to the ogt system, for transportation volumes up to 85 mmcf/d. acquisitions and divestitures we acquired transportation and storage assets located in texas from kmi in april 2000. these assets are strategic assets to us, in part since they give us access to an expanded area in the texas and california markets. in december 2002, we sold sayre property rights and entered into a long-term agreement with the purchaser whereby we retain storage capacity consistent with our original ownership position. distribution general ong distributes natural gas to wholesale and retail customers located in the state of oklahoma. at december 31, 2002, ong delivered natural gas to approximately 809,000 customers in 327 communities in oklahoma. ong largest markets are the oklahoma city and tulsa metropolitan areas. ong also sells natural gas to other local gas distributors serving 39 oklahoma communities. during 2000, the oklahoma customers of kgs were removed from the kgs customer base and became ong customers. at december 31, 2002, kgs supplied natural gas to approximately 641,000 customers in 340 communities in kansas. it also makes wholesale delivery to 10 customers. kgs largest markets served include kansas city, wichita, topeka, and johnson county, which includes overland park, kansas. operating income from the distribution segment is 25.6 percent, 24.0 percent, and 32.8 percent of the consolidated operating income from continuing operations for fiscal years 2002, 2001, and 2000, respectively. the distribution segment has no single external customer from which it receives ten percent or more of consolidated revenues. gas supply gas supplies available to ong for purchase and resale include supplies of gas under both short and long-term contracts with gas marketers, independent producers and other suppliers. oklahoma is the third largest gas producing state in the nation, and ong has direct access through the transportation and storage segment transmission system and transmission systems belonging to unaffiliated companies to all of the major gas producing areas in oklahoma. our gas storage, transportation and gathering assets were unbundled from the utility and operate as separate entities. gas supply and transportation contracts were awarded for service beginning in the 2000/2001 heating season for two- and five-year terms. 11 table of contents the two-year term contracts terminated in 2002 and were rebid to new terms of one year for gas supply and five years for transportation. as a result of the process, the majority of ong gas supply and gas transportation needs will continue to be met by two affiliates, oemt for supply, and ogt for upstream transportation service. ong reserved storage capacity of 0.9 bcf with southern star central gas pipeline, inc. (central) during 2002. effective april 1, 2003, ong will have two additional storage contracts with its affiliate, ogs. the first ogs contract is for 4.1 bcf of reserved storage capacity and is the result of the settlement with the occ in may 2002. the second ogs contract is for 1.4 bcf of reserved storage capacity and is the result of ogs being the successful bidder in a competitive bid process. the three contracts combined will give ong a reserved capacity of approximately 6.4 bcf. kgs had 12.4 bcf of reserved storage capacity with central, 0.4 bcf of reserved storage capacity with panhandle eastern pipeline company (panhandle) and 1.7 bcf of reserved storage capacity with mcmc throughout 2002. effective august 1, 2002, kgs added an additional storage contract with mcmc for 0.7 bcf of reserved storage capacity. the four contracts combined give kgs a reserved storage capacity of approximately 15 bcf. kgs has a long-term gas purchase contract with amoco production company (amoco) for the purpose of meeting the requirements of the customers served over the central system. we anticipate that this contract will supply between 45 percent and 55 percent of kgs demand served by the central pipeline system. amoco is one of various suppliers over the central pipeline system and if this contract were cancelled, management believes gas supplied by amoco could be replaced with gas from other suppliers. gas available under the contract that exceeds the needs of our residential and commercial customer base is also available for sale to other parties, known as as available gas sales. for the remainder of kgs supply, the gas is purchased from a combination of direct wellhead production, natural gas processing plants, and natural gas marketers and production companies. kgs has transportation agreements for delivery of gas that have remaining terms varying up to 14 years with the following non-affiliated pipeline transmission companies: central, enbridge pipelines kpc, inc. (kpc), kinder morgan interstate gas transmission, l.l.c., wyoming interstate gas company, panhandle, northern natural gas company and natural gas pipeline company of america. additionally, approximately three percent of kgs transportation service is provided by mcmc and ofs, which are affiliated companies. in 2002, kgs signed an agreement with colorado interstate gas company (cig) for capacity on the proposed cheyenne plains pipeline. this pipeline will provide kgs access to the rocky mountain gas supply basin, which currently has excess supply. this will facilitate kgs ability to maintain a reliable gas source for our current customers through a proposed interconnection with central and the kgs transmission system. the proposed cheyenne plains pipeline will originate at the cheyenne hub in northeast colorado and terminate with deliveries to several pipelines in kansas. the completion date of this pipeline is proposed for 2005. cig must obtain several regulatory approvals before the pipeline can be completed. in may 2002, the kcc approved an order allowing the transfer of certain mcmc transmission pipeline assets from our transportation and storage segment to kgs. the operation of these assets is regulated by the kcc. the transportation system provides access to the major natural gas producing areas in kansas intersecting with eight intrastate and interstate pipelines at 13 interconnect points, three processing plants, and approximately three producing fields effectively allowing gas to be moved throughout the state. with the transfer of these assets, kgs is able to provide itself with firm transportation service. the order was effective july 1, 2002. all historical financial and statistical information has been adjusted to reflect this transfer. kgs uses these transmission pipeline assets to serve its customers and provide transportation service on and off-system. kgs has agreements for 2.4 bcf of storage with mcmc, and approximately 13 bcf of storage with non-affiliated pipeline transmission companies. there is an adequate supply of natural gas available to our utility systems and we do not anticipate problems with securing additional gas supply as needed for our customers. in order to ensure adequate deliveries of natural gas, kgs continues to develop new supply and transportation alternatives for meeting its existing and future needs. however, if supply shortages occur, ong rate schedule order of curtailment and the kgs rate order priority of service provide for first reducing or totally discontinuing gas service to large industrial users and graduating down to requesting residential and commercial customers to reduce their gas requirements to an amount essential for public health and safety. 12 table of contents customers residential and commercial ong and kgs distribute natural gas as public utilities to approximately 80 percent of oklahoma population and 75 percent of kansas population. natural gas sold to residential and commercial customers, which is used primarily for heating and cooking, accounts for approximately 72 and 28 percent of gas sales, respectively, in oklahoma and 76 and 24 percent of gas sales, respectively, in kansas. a franchise, although non-exclusive, is a right to use the municipal streets, alleys, and other public ways for utility facilities for a defined period of time for a fee. ong has franchises in 41 municipalities including tulsa and oklahoma city, while kgs holds franchises in 279 municipalities. in management opinion, our franchises contain no unduly burdensome restrictions and are sufficient for the transaction of business in the manner in which it is now conducted. industrial under ong pipeline capacity lease (pcl) program, certain customers, for a fee or a tariff, can have their gas, whether purchased from ong or another supplier, transported to their facilities utilizing lines owned by ong or its affiliates. kgs transports gas for large industrial customers through its end-use customer transportation (ect) program. the programs allow qualifying industrial and commercial customers to purchase gas on the spot market and have it transported by ong and kgs, respectively. because of increased competition for the transportation of gas to pcl and ect customers, some of these customers may be lost to affiliated or unaffiliated transporters. if the transportation and storage segment gained some of this business, it would result in a shift of some revenues from the distribution segment to the transportation and storage segment. market conditions and business seasonality the natural gas industry is expected to remain highly competitive resulting from initiatives being pursued by the industry and regulatory agencies that allow industrial and commercial customers increased options for energy supplies. we believe that we must maintain a competitive advantage in order to retain our customers and, accordingly, continue to focus on reducing costs. the distribution segment is subject to competition from electric utilities offering electricity as a rival energy source and competing for the space heating, water heating, and industrial process markets. alternative fuels such as propane and fuel oil also present competition. the principal means to compete against alternative fuels is lower prices, and natural gas continues to maintain its price advantage in the residential, commercial, and both small and large industrial markets. in residential markets, the average cost of gas is less for ong and kgs customers than the cost of an equivalent amount of electricity. we provide education to customers on safety and the benefits of natural gas, which include product performance, price and environmental impact. the distribution segment is subject to competition from other pipelines for its existing industrial load. both ong and kgs compete for service to the large industrial and commercial customers; however, competition continues to lower rates. a portion of ong pcl services and kgs ect services are at negotiated rates that are generally below the approved pcl and transportation tariff rates, and increased competition potentially could lower these rates. industrial and transportation sales volumes tend to remain relatively constant throughout the year. gas sales to residential and commercial customers are seasonal, as a substantial portion of gas is used principally for heating. accordingly, the volume of gas sales is consistently higher during the heating season (november through march) than in other months of the year. ong tariff rates include a temperature normalization adjustment clause during the heating season, which mitigates the effect of fluctuations in weather. kgs also implemented a weather normalization clause in december 2000, which mitigates the effect of fluctuations in weather on revenues. kgs weatherproof bill program, implemented in september 1999, is designed to mitigate the effect of weather fluctuations in kansas for customers electing to use this program. additionally, with prior kcc approval, kgs has a gas hedging program in place to reduce volatility in the gas price paid by consumers. the costs of this program are borne by the kgs customers. government regulation rates charged for gas services are established by the occ for ong and by the kcc for kgs. gas purchase costs are included in the purchased gas adjustment (pga) clause rate that is billed to customers. we do not make a profit on the cost of gas. other changes in costs must be recovered through periodic rate adjustments approved by the occ and kcc. there were several regulatory initiatives in 2002. the highlights of these initiatives are as follows: a joint stipulation approved by the occ on may 16, 2002, settled a number of outstanding cases pending before the occ. the major cases settled were the commission inquiry into our gas cost procurement practices during the 13 table of contents winter of 2000/2001; an application seeking relief from improper and excessive purchased gas costs; and an enforcement action against us, our subsidiaries and affiliated companies of ong. in addition, all of the open inquiries related to the annual audits of ong fuel adjustment clause for 1996 to 2000 were closed as a result of this stipulation. the joint stipulation has a $33.7 million value to ong customers that will be realized over a three-year period. in july 2002, immediate cash savings were provided to all ong customers in the form of billing credits totaling approximately $9.1 million with an additional $1.0 million available for former customers returning to our system. if the additional $1.0 million is not fully refunded to customers returning to the ong system by december 2005, the remainder will be included in the final billing credit. ong has replaced certain gas contracts, which is expected to reduce gas costs by approximately $13.8 million due to avoided reservation fees between april 2003 and october 2005. additional savings of approximately $8.0 million from the use of storage service in lieu of those contracts are expected to occur between november 2003 and march 2005. any expected savings from the use of storage that are not achieved, any remaining billing credits not issued to returning customers and an additional $1.8 million credit will be added to the final billing credit scheduled to be provided to customers in december 2005. ong operating income increased by $14.2 million for fiscal year ended december 31, 2002 compared to the same period in 2001 as a result of this settlement and the revision of the estimated loss recorded in the fourth quarter of 2001. during 2001, two regulatory causes brought before the occ related to ong also involved an affiliate. both matters were settled in 2002. the first cause related to ong right to collect unrecovered purchased gas costs from the 2000/2001 winter. under this cause, the occ investigated whether ong was treated fairly in its contract with oemt and it was determined that ong was treated fairly and, in fact, paid less for gas than other oemt customers. in a second cause, enogex, inc. requested a rebid of gas supply and transportation service awarded to oemt in november 2001 and the occ declined to order a rebid. in oklahoma, we initiated a voluntary fixed-price program where customers could lock in their gas price at a fixed rate from november 1, 2002 through october 31, 2003. over 20,000 customers enrolled in the program for the 2002/2003 pilot year. in january 2003, kgs filed a rate case with the kcc to increase rates approximately $76 million. the kcc has 240 days to issue a final order on the rate case. if approved, the new rate will take effect for the 2003/2004 heating season. until a final order is received, kgs will operate under the current rate schedule. we have settled all known claims arising out of long-term gas supply contracts containing take-or-pay provisions that purport to require us to pay for volumes of natural gas contracted for but not taken. the occ has authorized recovery of the accumulated settlement costs over a 20-year period, expiring in 2014, or approximately $6.7 million annually through a combination of a surcharge from customers and revenue from transportation under section 311(a) of the ngpa and other intrastate transportation revenues. there are no significant potential claims or cases pending against us under take-or-pay contracts. oktex transports gas in interstate commerce under section 311(a) of the ngpa and is treated as a separate entity by the ferc. accordingly, oktex is subject to the regulatory jurisdiction of the ferc under the nga with respect to rates, accounts and records, the addition of facilities, the extension of services in some cases, the abandonment of services and facilities, the curtailment of gas deliveries and other matters. oktex has the capacity to move up to 800 mmcf/d. in the first quarter of 2000, the ferc issued order no. 637, which, among other things, imposed additional reporting requirements, required changes to make pipeline and secondary market services more comparable, removed the price caps on secondary market capacity for a period of two years, allowed rates to be based on seasonal or term differentiated factors and narrowed the applicability of the regulatory right of first refusal to apply only to the maximum rate contracts. our interstate pipeline implemented the new regulations in may 2000. the ferc order did not have a material effect on our operations. production general our strategy has been to concentrate ownership of natural gas and oil reserves in the mid-continent region in order to add value not only to our existing production operations but also to integrate it into our gathering and processing, marketing and trading, and transportation and storage businesses. we continue to focus on growing through acquisitions, developing existing properties, and divesting properties when the market offers premium value. 14 table of contents operating income from the production segment is 2.8 percent, 7.2 percent, and 1.8 percent of the consolidated operating income from continuing operations for fiscal years 2002, 2001, and 2000, respectively. the production segment has no single external customer from which it receives ten percent or more of consolidated revenues. property acquisitions and divestitures we acquired $3.7 million of properties located in the mid-continent region of the u.s. during 2002 of which $2.9 million are included in continuing operations and $0.8 million are included in the discontinued component. in november 2002, we agreed to sell approximately 70 percent of our proved properties for $300 million before adjustments. the sale was completed on january 31, 2003. the financial and statistical information related to the sale are presented as discontinued operations. all periods presented have been restated to reflect the discontinued component. producing reserves the production segment primarily focuses its production activities on natural gas. we are retaining interests in 511 gas wells and 63 oil wells, all located in oklahoma. a number of these wells produce from multiple zones. production from the retained oil wells increased in 2002 as compared to 2001, primarily as a result of production from new wells drilled and from recompletions of existing wells. production from the retained gas wells decreased in 2002 compared to 2001 as a result of the natural decline in production on existing wells. our discontinued component has interests in 1,741 gas wells and 172 oil wells located primarily in oklahoma, kansas, and texas. market conditions and business seasonality natural gas prices during the first quarter of 2002 were at their lowest levels of the previous two years, after which gas prices increased for the remainder of the year, with the last quarter of 2002 reaching the highest gas prices of the year. despite the steadily increasing prices during 2002, industry-wide drilling activity was subdued and we were able to pursue our scheduled developmental drilling projects during the first part of the year due to an adequate supply of drilling rigs. due to our agreement to sell approximately 70 percent of our production segment properties in the latter part of the year, we limited our capital projects to only those required to maintain our leasehold position. we continue to actively pursue acquisition opportunities as a low-risk method of adding reserves. our goal is to build on our existing reserve base through acquisition and development. we operate or have large interests in our retained wells. we are in a good competitive position within our operating region due to low finding costs and high quality production at locations near transportation points and markets. during 2002, the segment production was sold to a number of affiliated and unaffiliated markets, all at market prices. similar to our other business segments, the production segment is subject to seasonal factors. the production segment revenues are impacted by prices, which, historically, are higher in the winter heating months when demand is higher than in the summer and shoulder months of spring and fall. oil prices in the u.s. are also impacted by international production and export policies. risk management we utilized derivative instruments in 2002 in order to hedge anticipated sales of natural gas and oil production. during the third quarter of 2002, we lifted our natural gas production hedges through december 2004 and fixed the gains for all derivative instruments used for hedges previously in place related to our natural gas production. we recognize the benefit from the fixed gain as each contract month expires. in 2002, we recognized $3.9 million in natural gas sales revenues related to these hedges. the gains associated with these natural gas production hedges have been deferred in other comprehensive income and will be realized in the month that the natural gas production occurs. at december 31, 2002, the production segment had hedged 72 percent of its anticipated gas production and 62 percent of its anticipated oil production for fiscal year 2003 at a weighted average wellhead price of $4.60 per mcf for gas and $27.25 per bbl for oil. see item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk and note d of notes to consolidated financial statements. other through two subsidiaries, we own a parking garage and lease an office building (oneok plaza) in downtown tulsa, oklahoma, where our headquarters is located. the parking garage is owned and operated by oneok parking company. oneok leasing company leases excess office space to others. the other segment has no single external customer from which it receives ten percent or more of consolidated revenues. on march 15, 2002, magnum hunter resources (mhr) merged with prize energy corp., reducing our direct ownership to approximately 11 percent and reducing the number of positions held by us on the mhr board of directors from two to one. 15 table of contents we began accounting for our investment in mhr as an available-for-sale security and, accordingly, marked the investment to fair value through other comprehensive income. during the second quarter of 2002, we sold our remaining shares of mhr common stock for a pre-tax gain of approximately $7.6 million, which is included in other income in 2002. we retained approximately 1.5 million stock purchase warrants. we also relinquished our remaining seat on mhr board of directors. the mhr investment and related equity income and loss are reported in the other segment. executive officers all executive officers are elected at the annual meeting of directors and serve for a period of one year or until successors are duly elected. 16 table of contents name and position age business experience in past five years david l. kyle 50 2000 to present chairman of the board of directors, president and chief executive officer chairman of the board, 1997 to 2000 president and chief executive officer president and chief 1995 to present member of the board of directors executive officer 1994 to 1997 president and chief operating officer, oklahoma natural gas company jim kneale 51 2001 to present senior vice president, treasurer and chief financial officer senior vice president, 1999 to 2000 vice president, treasurer and chief financial officer treasurer and chief 1997 to 1999 president and chief operating officer, oklahoma natural gas company financial officer john a. gaberino, jr. 61 1998 to present senior vice president and general counsel senior vice president, 2001 to 2002 corporate secretary general counsel, and 1994 to 1998 stockholder, officer and director, gable &amp; gotwals corporate secretary edmund j. farrell 59 2001 to present senior vice president administration, oneok, inc. senior vice president 1999 to 2001 president and chief operating officer, oklahoma natural gas company administration 1997 to 1999 vice president, oneok gas marketing company john w. gibson 50 2000 to present president energy, oneok, inc. (1) president energy 1996 to 2000 executive vice president, koch energy, inc.; president, koch midstream services; president, koch gateway pipeline company christopher r. skoog 39 1999 to present president, oneok energy marketing and trading company ii president, oneok 1995 to 1999 vice president, oneok gas marketing company energy marketing and trading company ii j.d. holbird 53 1999 to present president, oneok resources company president, oneok 1997 to 1999 vice president, oneok resources company resources company phyllis worley 52 2002 to present president and chief operating officer, kansas gas service company president and chief 2002-2002 vice president administration, oklahoma natural gas company operating officer, 2001 to 2002 vice president western region, kansas gas service company kansas gas service company 1999 to 2001 vice president southern region, kansas gas service company 1997 to 1999 director southern region, kansas gas service company 1994 to 1997 ponca city area manager, oklahoma natural gas company samuel combs, iii 45 2001 to present president and chief operating officer, oklahoma natural gas company president and chief 1999 to 2001 vice president western region, oklahoma natural gas company operating officer, 1996 to 1999 vice president oklahoma city district, oklahoma natural gas company oklahoma natural gas company roger mitchell 51 2002 to present president and chief operating officer, texas gas service company president and chief 2001 to 2002 vice president eastern region, oklahoma natural gas company operating officer, 1997 to 2001 manager, communications and advertising texas gas service company 1994 to 1997 district manager customer services, oklahoma natural gas company beverly monnet 44 2001 to present vice president, controller and chief accounting officer vice president, 1997 to 2001 manager of accounting, oneok resources company controller and chief 1995 to 1997 manager of gas accounting, oklahoma natural gas company accounting officer (1) the energy group includes the gathering and processing and transportation and storage segments. no family relationships exist between any of the executive officers nor is there any arrangement or understanding between any executive officer and any other person pursuant to which the officer was selected. 17 table of contents item 2. properties description of property production we own varying economic interests, including working, royalty and overriding royalty interests in 511 gas wells and 63 oil wells that are related to ongoing operations and 1,741 gas wells and 172 oil wells related to the discontinued component, some of which are completed in multiple producing zones. the interests in wells retained after the sale, which closed in january 2003, are in wells located primarily in oklahoma. we own 66,262 net onshore developed leasehold acres and 10,432 net onshore undeveloped acres, after the sale, all located in oklahoma. the discontinued component includes 131,068 net onshore developed acres and 31,772 net onshore undeveloped leasehold acres. we do not own any offshore acreage. gathering and processing we own and operate, lease and operate, or own an interest in natural gas processing plants in oklahoma, kansas and texas with a processing capacity of approximately 1.993 bcf/d, of which approximately 0.107 bcf/d is currently idle. the capacity associated with plants owned or leased is approximately 1.776 bcf/d, while the amount of the plant capacity that we own an interest in but do not operate is approximately 0.110 bcf/d. we own a total of approximately 13,962 miles of gathering pipelines that supply our gas processing plants. our natural gas processing operations utilize two types of gas processing plants, field and straddle plants. field plants aggregate volumes from multiple producing wells into quantities that can be economically processed to extract natural gas liquids and to remove water vapor and other contaminants. straddle plants are situated on mainline natural gas pipelines and allow operators to extract natural gas liquids under contract from a natural gas stream when the market value of natural gas liquids separated from the natural gas stream is higher than the market value of the same unprocessed natural gas stream. we own and operate or lease and operate two ngl storage facilities in kansas. the total capacity of the facilities is approximately 18 mmbbls. we own and operate or lease and operate two fractionation facilities in oklahoma and kansas. the total fractionation capacity of the two facilities is approximately 95 mbbls/d. transportation and storage we own a combined total of approximately 2,858 miles of transmission pipeline in oklahoma, approximately 204 miles in kansas, and approximately 4,701 miles in texas. compression and dehydration facilities are located at various points throughout the pipeline system. in addition, we own four and lease one underground storage facilities located throughout oklahoma, own three storage facilities in kansas and own three storage facilities in texas. the storage facilities primarily consist of land and mineral leasehold agreements, wells and equipment, rights of way, and cushion gas. the total working storage capacity of these facilities is approximately 59.6 bcf, of which 9.5 bcf is currently idle. four of the oklahoma storage facilities are located in close proximity to large market areas; the other storage facility is located in western oklahoma and is leased through a long-term agreement. we have 3 bcf of working storage capacity in that facility for our use. the storage facilities in oklahoma, kansas and texas are connected to our pipelines and are located near unaffiliated intrastate and interstate pipelines, providing our storage customers with access to multiple markets. distribution we own approximately 17,123 miles of pipeline and other distribution facilities in oklahoma and approximately 12,223 miles of pipeline and other distribution facilities in kansas. we own a number of warehouses, garages, meter and regulator houses, service buildings, and other buildings throughout oklahoma and kansas. we also own a fleet of trucks and maintain an inventory of spare parts, equipment, and supplies. lease acreage in producing units is held by production. leases not held by production are generally for a term of three years and may require payment of annual rentals. 18 table of contents marketing and trading we constructed a 300-megawatt gas-fired merchant power plant located in logan county, oklahoma adjacent to an affiliate gas storage facility. this plant is configured to supply electric power during peak periods with four gas-powered turbine generators. other we own a parking garage and land, subject to a long-term ground lease. located on this land is a seventeen-story office building with approximately 517,000 square feet of net rentable space. we also lease our office building under a lease term that expires in 2009 with six five-year renewal options. after the primary term or any renewal period, we can purchase the property at its fair market value. we occupy approximately 203,000 square feet for our own use and lease the remaining space to others. oil and gas reserves as defined by the sec, oil and gas production includes natural gas liquids in their natural state. our gathering and processing operation produces natural gas liquids. the sec excludes the production of natural gas liquids resulting from the operations of gas processing plants as an oil and gas activity. accordingly, the following tables exclude information concerning the production of natural gas liquids by our processing operations. all of the oil and gas reserves for our production segment are located in the united states. for quantities of our oil and gas reserves and the present value of estimated future net revenues from our oil and gas reserves see notes u and v of the notes to consolidated financial statements. we report our proved reserves on our operated oil and gas properties to the energy information agency. these reported reserves are the same as the proved reserve amounts for these same properties used in our disclosures to the sec, prior to applying the net ownership to the properties. we do not file our reserve estimates with any other governmental agency. quantities of oil and gas produced the following table sets forth the net quantities of oil and natural gas produced and sold, including intercompany transactions for the production segment, for the periods indicated. years ended december 31, sales 2002 2001 2000 continuing operations oil (mbbls) 273.0 261.0 143.0 gas (mmcf) 7,370.0 8,000.0 7,759.0 discontinued component oil (mbbls) 241.0 231.6 257.0 gas (mmcf) 18,036.0 19,578.4 18,987.0 average sales price and production (lifting) costs the following table sets forth the average sales prices and production costs for our production segment for the periods indicated. 19 table of contents years ended december 31, 2002 2001 2000 average sales price (a) continuing operations per bbl of oil $ 24.37 $ 23.88 $ 21.36 per mcf of gas $ 3.49 $ 3.95 $ 2.00 discontinued component per bbl of oil $ 25.00 $ 25.99 $ 21.46 per mcf of gas $ 3.19 $ 3.89 $ 2.39 average production costs continuing operations per mcfe (b) $ 0.68 $ 0.68 $ 0.60 discontinued component per mcfe (b) $ 0.67 $ 0.68 $ 0.59 (a) in determining the average sales price of oil and gas, sales to affiliates were recorded on the same basis as sales to unaffiliated customers. the effect of natural gas hedges on the average sales price is as follows: year ended december 31, 2002, increase by $0.25 per mcf; year ended december 31, 2001, decrease by $0.45 per mcf; year ended december 31, 2000, decrease by $1.15 per mcf and $7.90 per bbl. (b) for the purpose of calculating the average production costs per mcf equivalent, barrels of oil were converted to mcf using six mcfs of natural gas to one barrel of oil. production costs, which include production taxes, are based on the combined wellhead market price of both continuing operations and the discontinued component, which averaged $24.65 per bbl of oil and $3.02 per mcf of gas in 2002 and $24.89 per bbl of oil, $4.33 per mcf of gas in 2001, and $29.33 per bbl of oil and $3.43 per mcf of gas in 2000, instead of the weighted average hedged price. since oil is such a low percentage of our product mix, production costs are presented on an mcfe basis rather than an mcf and bbl basis. the production tax component of the historical production cost per equivalent unit is as follows: year ended december 31, 2002, $0.21 per mcfe; year ended december 31, 2001, $0.28 per mcfe; year ended december 31, 2000, $0.23 per mcfe. wells and developed acreage the following table sets forth the gross and net wells in which the production segment had an interest at december 31, 2002. gas oil continuing operations gross wells 511 63 net wells 171 30 discontinued component gross wells 1,741 172 net wells 465 52 gross developed acres and net developed acres by well classification are not available. gross developed acres for both oil and gas are 115,475 acres for our continuing operations and 456,441 acres for the discontinued component. net developed acres for both oil and gas is 66,262 acres for our continuing operations and 131,068 acres for the discontinued component. 20 table of contents undeveloped acreage the following table sets forth the gross and net undeveloped leasehold acreage for our production segment at december 31, 2002. gross net continuing operations oklahoma 18,966.1 10,431.8 discontinued component kansas 1,185.9 815.8 mississippi 2.0 0.5 oklahoma 125,328.5 30,468.7 texas 3,109.5 487.3 total 148,592.0 42,204.1 of the net undeveloped acres, all of the retained acreage related to ongoing operations is in the anadarko basin area in the state of oklahoma. net development wells drilled the following table sets forth the net interest in total development wells drilled, by well classification, for our production segment for the periods indicated. years ended december 31, 2002 2001 2000 development continuing operations productive 8.8 11.9 16.6 dry 0.6 1.8 discontinued component productive 12.0 17.7 11.9 dry total 20.8 30.2 30.3 we did not drill any exploratory wells in 2002, 2001, or 2000. present drilling activities at december 31, 2002, the production segment was participating in the drilling of nine wells. our net interest in these wells amounts to 1.7 wells. future obligations to provide oil and gas we do not have any future obligations to provide oil and gas related to our production segment. item 3. legal proceedings united states ex rel. jack j. grynberg v. oneok, inc., oneok resources company, and oklahoma natural gas company, (ctn-8) , no. civ-97-1006-r, united states district court for the western district of oklahoma, transferred, in re natural gas royalties qui tam litigation , mdl docket no. 1293, united states district court for the district of wyoming . we are a defendant in an action initiated by jack j. grynberg, on behalf of the united states under the false claims act (31 u.s.c. 729, et seq. ). similar complaints have been filed against approximately 75 other companies associated with the natural gas industry. the main allegation of the complaints is that, since at least 1985, the defendants have systematically undermeasured the volumes and/or the heating content of gas purchased from federal and 21 table of contents indian lands, resulting in underpayment of royalties due the federal government and the various indian tribes. grynberg seeks to recover $5,000 to $10,000 for each violation of the false claims act as well as treble damages for any underpayment. the actions brought by grynberg, together with certain other actions alleging underpayment of gas royalties to federal and indian lessors, have been assigned to a multidistrict litigation proceeding in the united states district court for the district of wyoming for coordination of pretrial proceedings. the court overruled the defendants initial motion to dismiss, but granted the motion of the united states to dismiss certain portions of the complaint. the order granting the motion of the united states is now on appeal. meanwhile, the defendants are conducting discovery regarding whether grynberg has met the unique jurisdictional prerequisites for maintaining an action under the false claims act. we will continue to vigorously defend all aspects of claims made against us in this litigation. southern union company v. southwest gas corporation, et al., no. civ-99-1294-phx-ros, united states district court for the district of arizona; oneok, inc. v. southern union company , no. 99-cv-0345-h(m), united states district court for the northern district of oklahoma, transferred, no. cv-00-1812-phx-ros, in the united states district court for the district of arizona, on appeal of preliminary injunction, united states court of appeals for the tenth circuit, case number 99-5103; oneok, inc. v. southwest gas corporation , no. 00-cv-063-h(e), united states district court for the northern district of oklahoma, transferred, no. civ-00-1775-phx-ros, united states district court for the district of arizona; and southwest gas corporation v. oneok, inc. , no. civ-00-0119-phx-ros, united states district court for the district of arizona . in may of 1999 a series of lawsuits were filed in connection with failed attempts by us and southern union company ( sug ) to merge with southwest gas corporation ( swx ). we, swx and sug all sued each other and sug made claims against a member of the arizona corporation commission and other individuals, including our officers and directors. on august 6, 2002, swx and sug settled their claims against each other for the payment of $17.5 million by swx to sug. shortly thereafter, on august 9, 2002, we and swx settled our claims against each other for a payment of $3 million by us to swx. on october 11, 2002, we and sug announced to the court an agreement in principle to settle the remaining claims between us, our current/former officers and directors and sug. on january 3, 2003, we completed that settlement. in exchange for a payment of $5 million by us to sug, sug dismissed with prejudice its claims against us and our current/former officers and directors and we likewise dismissed with prejudice our claims against sug. there are no further outstanding claims involving us in these cases. in re oneok, inc. derivative litigation , no. cj-2000-00593, district court of tulsa county, oklahoma (formerly gaetan lavalla, derivatively on behalf of nominal defendant oneok, inc. v. larry w. brummett, et al., no. cj-2000-598 and hayward lane, derivatively on behalf of nominal defendant oneok, inc. v. larry w. brummett, et al.) . on february 3, 2000, two substantially identical derivative actions were filed in the district court in tulsa, oklahoma, by shareholders against the members of our board of directors for violation of their fiduciary duties by allegedly causing or allowing us to engage in fraudulent and improper schemes designed to sabotage southern union company ( sug ) competitive bid to acquire southwest gas corporation ( swx ) and secure regulatory approval for our own planned merger with swx. such conduct allegedly caused us to be sued by both swx and sug, which exposed us to millions of dollars in liabilities. the allegations are used as a basis for causes of action for intentional breach of fiduciary duty, derivative claim for negligent breach of fiduciary duty, class and derivative claims for constructive fraud, and derivative claims for gross mismanagement. each plaintiff seeks a declaration that the lawsuit is properly maintained as a derivative action, the defendants, and each of them, have breached their fiduciary duties to us, an injunction permanently enjoining defendants from further abuse of control and committing of gross mismanagement and constructive fraud, and asks for an award of compensatory and punitive damages and costs, disbursements and reasonable attorney fees. a joint motion for consolidation of both derivative actions was filed on june 6, 2000, and a pretrial order was entered on that date consolidating the actions and establishing a schedule for a response to a consolidated petition. on july 21, 2000, the plaintiffs filed their consolidated petition. stephen j. jatras and j. m. graves have been eliminated as defendants in the consolidated petition, but eugene dubay was added as a new defendant. the plaintiffs also dropped their class and derivative claim for constructive fraud, but added a new derivative claim for waste of corporate assets. on september 19, 2000, we, our independent directors (anderson, bell, cummings, ford, fricke, lake, mackie, newsom, parker, scott and young), david kyle, and gene dubay filed motions to dismiss the action for failure of the plaintiffs to make a pre-suit demand on our board of directors. in addition, our independent directors, david kyle, and gene dubay filed motions to dismiss the plaintiffs consolidated petition for failure to state a claim. on january 3, 2001, the court dismissed the action without prejudice as to its claims against larry brummett. on february 26, 2001, the action was stayed until one of the parties notifies the court that a dissolution of the stay is requested. will price, et al. v. gas pipelines, et al. (f/k/a quinque operating company, et al. v. gas pipelines, et al.) , 26th judicial district, district court of stevens county, kansas, civil department, case no. 99c30 . on june 8, 2001, a second amended petition was filed in this case as a purported class action against approximately 225 defendants, including us, one of our divisions and five of our subsidiaries. plaintiffs later dismissed a number of defendants, including oneok 22 table of contents resources company, one of our subsidiaries. on february 21, 2002, plaintiffs filed a third amended petition, in order to add certain plaintiffs, dismiss quinque operating company as a plaintiff, and amended certain of their substantive allegations. the third amended petition was purportedly filed on behalf of all producers and royalty owners who have lost money as a result of alleged mismeasurement of gas since 1974 by any of the now approximately 135 defendants. the third amended petition alleges that each of the defendants engaged in one or more specific mismeasurement techniques and conspired with one another to undermeasure the gas sold by the alleged class members. the third amended petition alleges that the aggregate alleged underpayment to all purported class members since 1974 is estimated to be tens of billions of dollars. one of our named subsidiaries, oneok westex transmission, inc., formerly westar transmission co., is a former subsidiary of kinder morgan, and kinder morgan has agreed to assume the defense of oneok westex while reserving its rights and denying that it has any obligation to indemnify us against any loss suffered by oneok westex as a result of this litigation. discovery in the case, except as to class certification and personal jurisdiction issues, has been stayed. plaintiffs and defendants have served and responded to various discovery requests on the personal jurisdiction and class certification issues. one of our subsidiaries, oneok gas transportation, llc, is contesting personal jurisdiction. on august 19, 2002, the court entered an order denying the defendants motion to dismiss the case. oral argument on the personal jurisdiction motion of defendants contesting personal jurisdiction was held on august 29, 2002, but no decision has been rendered on that motion yet. oral argument also was held on plaintiffs class certification motion on january 13, 2003; however, no decision has been rendered on that motion either. oneok intends to vigorously defend all aspects of the claims asserted in this case. in the matter of the natural gas explosion at hutchinson, kansas during january, 2001 , case no. 02-e-0155, before the secretary of the department of health and environment. on july 23, 2002 the division of environment of the kansas department of health and environment (kdhe) issued an administrative order, which assesses a $180,000 civil penalty against our kansas gas service division. the penalty is based upon allegations of violations of various kdhe regulations relating to our operation of hydrocarbon storage wells, monitoring requirements applicable to stored hydrocarbon products, and spill reporting in connection with the gas explosion at our yaggy gas storage facility in hutchinson, kansas in january 2001. in addition, the order requires us to monitor existing unplugged vent wells, drill additional observation, monitoring and vent wells as directed by the kdhe, perform cleanup activities relating to certain brine wells, and prepare a geoengineering plan with respect to the yaggy gas field. we timely filed an appeal of the administrative order. a status conference was held on february 12, 2003, and another one has been scheduled for april 10, 2003, regarding progress toward reaching an agreed consent order. loyd smith, et al v. kansas gas service company, inc., oneok, inc., western resources, inc., mid continent market center, inc., oneok gas storage, l.l.c., oneok gas storage holdings, inc., and oneok gas transportation, l.l.c., case no. 01-c-0029, in the district court of reno county, kansas, and gilley et al. v. kansas gas service company, western resources, inc., oneok, inc., oneok gas storage, l.l.c., oneok gas storage holdings, inc., oneok gas transportation l.l.c. and mid-continent market center, inc., case no. 01-c-0057, in the district court of reno county, kansas. two separate class action lawsuits were filed against us and several of our subsidiaries in early 2001 relating to certain gas explosions in hutchinson, kansas. the court certified two separate classes of claimants, which include all owners of real estate in reno county, kansas whose property had allegedly declined in value, and owners of businesses in reno county whose income had allegedly suffered. the petitions seek recovery on behalf of the class claimants for an amount, which will fully and fairly compensate all members of the class. loyd smith, et al v. kansas gas service company, inc., oneok, inc., western resources, inc., mid continent market center, inc., oneok gas storage, l.l.c., oneok gas storage holdings, inc., and oneok gas transportation, l.l.c., case no. 03-c-0029, in the district court of reno county, kansas. this class action lawsuit was filed against us, several of our subsidiaries, and others on january 17, 2003 relating to the gas explosions occurring in hutchinson, kansas in january 2001. the petition seeks recovery on behalf of residents of reno county, kansas, who have suffered or will suffer damage and/or economic losses relating to personal property and displacement costs. we have not been served in this matter, and intend to vigorously defend all aspects of the claims against us in this litigation once properly served. item 4. results of votes of security holders no matter was submitted to a vote of our security holders, through the solicitation of proxies or otherwise, during the fourth quarter of the fiscal year covered by this report. 23 table of contents part ii. item 5. market price and dividends on the registrant common stock and related shareholder matters market information and holders our common stock is listed on the new york stock exchange under the trading symbol oke. the corporate name oneok is used in newspaper stock listings. the following table sets forth the high and low sales prices of our common stock for the periods indicated. year ended december 31, 2002 year ended december 31, 2001 high low high low first quarter $ 20.92 $ 16.35 $ 24.34 $ 18.13 second quarter $ 23.13 $ 19.71 $ 22.50 $ 19.01 third quarter $ 22.18 $ 14.65 $ 20.48 $ 14.17 fourth quarter $ 19.71 $ 17.43 $ 18.40 $ 16.15 the high and low sales prices for the first and second quarters of the year ended december 31, 2001, have been restated to give the effect of the 2001 two-for-one stock split. there were 13,125 holders of record of our common stock at march 1, 2003. dividends the following table sets forth the quarterly dividends declared on our common stock during the periods indicated. years ended december 31, 2002 2001 first quarter $ 0.155 $ 0.155 second quarter $ 0.155 $ 0.155 third quarter $ 0.155 $ 0.155 fourth quarter $ 0.155 $ 0.155 quarterly dividends for the first and second quarters of the year ended december 31, 2001, have been restated to give the effect of the 2001 two-for-one stock split. our revolving credit facility with bank of american, n.a. and other financial institutions limits dividends and other distributions on our common stock. under the most restrictive of these provisions, $143.8 million of retained earnings is so restricted. at december 31, 2002, $364.1 million was available for dividends on our common stock. on november 21, 2002, our board of directors approved an increase in the quarterly dividend on our common stock to $0.17 per share that was applicable to the quarterly dividend declared in january 2003. equity compensation plan information the following table sets forth certain information concerning the company equity compensation plans as of december 31, 2002. 24 table of contents number of securities remaining available for number of securities weighted-average future issuance under to be issued upon exercise price of equity compensation exercise of outstanding outstanding options, plans (excluding plan category options, warrants and rights warrants and rights securities in column (a)) (a) (b) (c) equity compensation plans approved by security holders 2,893,676 $ 18.51 11,595,783 (3) equity compensation plans not approved by security holders (1) 210,954 $ 20.01 (2) 530,000 (3) total 3,104,630 $ 18.61 12,125,783 (1) includes our employee non-qualified deferred compensation plan, the deferred compensation plan for non-employee directors and the stock compensation plan for non-employee directors. for a brief description of the material features of these plans, see note r of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. (2) compensation deferred into our common stock under our employee non-qualified deferred compensation plan and deferred compensation plan for non-employee directors is distributed to participants at fair market value on the date of distribution. the price used in the table is $19.20, which represents the price of our common stock at december 31, 2002. (3) securities reserved for future issuance under our deferred compensation plan for non-employee directors are included in shares reserved for issuance under our long-term incentive plan, which is reflected in the table as an equity compensation plan approved by security holders. item 6. selected financial data in accordance with a pronouncement of the financial accounting standards board staff at the emerging issues task force meeting in april 2001, codified as eitf topic no. d-95 (topic d-95), we revised our computation of earnings per common share (eps). we restated the eps amounts for all periods to be consistent with the revised methodology and to give effect of the two-for-one stock split in 2001. see note of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. in february 2003, we purchased approximately 9 million shares of our series a convertible preferred stock from westar and converted the remaining 10.9 million shares of series a convertible preferred stock to 21.8 million shares of series d convertible preferred stock reflecting the two-for-one stock split in 2001. the series d stock has a fixed annual cash dividend rate of 92.5 cents per share. as a result of this transaction, topic d-95 will not apply to our computation of eps beginning in february 2003. the following table sets forth our selected financial data for each of the periods indicated. 25 table of contents years ended december 31, years ended august 31, 2002 2001 2000 1999 1998 (millions of dollars, except per share amounts) net revenues from continuing operations $ 975.7 $ 826.4 $ 745.7 $ 571.0 $ 508.6 operating income from continuing operations $ 371.5 $ 255.6 $ 324.5 $ 203.9 $ 180.5 income from continuing operations $ 156.0 $ 78.8 $ 137.7 $ 99.1 $ 96.7 income from operations of discontinued component $ 10.6 $ 24.9 $ 5.8 $ 7.3 $ 5.1 assets from discontinued component $ 225.3 $ 227.9 $ 215.5 $ 223.1 $ 180.0 total assets $ 5,730.9 $ 5,853.3 $ 7,360.3 $ 3,024.9 $ 2,422.5 long-term debt $ 1,442.0 $ 1,744.2 $ 1,350.7 $ 837.0 $ 329.3 total basic earnings per share $ 1.40 $ 0.85 $ 1.23 $ 0.86 $ 0.96 total diluted earnings per share $ 1.39 $ 0.85 $ 1.23 $ 0.86 $ 0.96 dividends per common share $ 0.62 $ 0.62 $ 0.62 $ 0.62 $ 0.60 percent of payout 44.6 % 72.9 % 50.4 % 72.1 % 62.5 % ratio of earnings to fixed charges 3.24 x 1.74 x 2.80 x 3.89 x 5.28 x ratio of earnings to combined fixed charges and preferred stock dividend requirements 2.12 x 1.24 x 1.88 x 1.85 x 2.42 x item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations forward-looking statements and risk factors some of the statements contained and incorporated in this form 10-k are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. the forward-looking statements relate to the anticipated financial performance, management plans and objectives for future operations, business prospects, outcome of regulatory proceedings, market conditions and other matters. the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements in various circumstances. the following discussion is intended to identify important factors that could cause future outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements include the items identified in the preceding paragraph, the information concerning possible or assumed future results of operations and other statements contained or incorporated in this form 10-k identified by words such as anticipate, estimate, expect, intend, believe, projection or goal. you should not place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements. known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. those factors may affect our operations, markets, products, services and prices. in addition to any assumptions and other factors referred to specifically in connection with the forward-looking statements, factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in any forward-looking statement include, among others, the following: risks associated with any reduction in our credit ratings; the effects of weather and other natural phenomena on sales and prices; competition from other energy suppliers as well as alternative forms of energy; the capital intensive nature of our business; further deregulation, or unbundling of the natural gas business; competitive changes in the natural gas gathering, transportation and storage business resulting from deregulation, or unbundling, of the natural gas business; the profitability of assets or businesses acquired by us; risks of marketing, trading, and hedging activities as a result of changes in energy prices or the financial condition of our trading partners; economic climate and growth in the geographic areas in which we do business; the uncertainty of gas and oil reserve estimates; the timing and extent of changes in commodity prices for natural gas, natural gas liquids, electricity, and crude oil; 26 table of contents the effects of changes in governmental policies and regulatory actions, including, with respect to accounting policies, income taxes, environmental compliance, authorized rates, or recovery of gas costs; the impact of unforeseen changes in interest rates, equity markets, inflation rates, economic recession and other external factors over which we have no control, including the effect on pension expense and funding resulting from changes in stock market returns; risks associated with pending or possible acquisitions and dispositions, including our ability to finance or to integrate any such acquisitions and any regulatory delay or conditions imposed by regulatory bodies in connection with any such acquisitions; the results of administrative proceedings and litigation involving the occ, kcc, texas regulatory authorities or any other local, state or federal regulatory body; our ability to access capital and competitive rates on terms acceptable to us; actions taken by westar or its affiliates with respect to its investment in oneok, including, without limitation, the effect of a sale of our shares of common stock and preferred stock beneficially owned by westar; the risk of a significant slowdown in growth or decline in the u.s. economy, the risk of delay in growth or recovery in the u.s. economy or the risk of increased costs for insurance premiums, security or other items as a consequence of the september 11, 2001, or possible future terrorists attacks or war; and the other factors listed in the reports we have filed and may file from time to time with the sec. other factors and assumptions not identified above were also involved in the making of the forward-looking statements. the failure of those assumptions to be realized, as well as other factors, may also cause actual results to differ materially from those projected. operating environment and outlook the energy industry has undergone tremendous changes throughout the past decade and energy trading in the past 12 to 18 months. our strategy has been and continues to be one of growth through acquiring assets that complement and strengthen each other, maximizing the earnings potential of existing assets through asset rationalization and consolidation and introducing regulatory initiatives that benefit us and our customers. we believe that the energy markets will continue to see deregulation, although it may be different than how certain markets have been deregulated to date. we will continue to focus on enhancing the earnings potential of our existing assets through acquiring assets that grow our operations into new market areas and complement our existing asset base. operating highlights acquisitions and capital expenditures on january 31, 2003, we closed the sale of some of the natural gas and oil producing properties of our production segment to chesapeake energy corporation for a cash sales price of approximately $300 million. pursuant to the sale, we sold natural gas and oil reserves in oklahoma and texas. the sale included approximately 1,900 wells, 482 of which were operated by us. we recorded a gain of approximately $74.4 million in the first quarter of 2003 related to this sale. on january 3, 2003, we closed the purchase of all of the texas assets of southern union for a cash purchase price of approximately $420 million, subject to a working capital adjustment to be determined within 90 days of the closing of the transaction. the acquisition makes us the fifth largest gas distributor in the u.s., with almost two million customers in oklahoma, kansas and texas. the assets acquired consist of the third largest gas distribution business in texas, with operations that serve approximately 535,000 customers, over 90 percent of which are residential. on december 13, 2002, we closed the sale of some of our midstream natural gas assets for a sales price of approximately $92 million to an affiliate of mustang fuel corporation, a private, independent oil and gas company. the assets that were sold are located in north central oklahoma and include three processing plants and related gathering systems and our interest in a fourth processing plant. the sale of these assets is part of our strategy to dispose of assets that are not considered core assets for our future. in early 2001, we increased our common ownership interest in mhr from approximately nine percent to over 21 percent through conversion of shares and redemption of mhr preferred stock to shares of mhr common stock, as well as exercising warrants. as a result, we began accounting for the mhr investment using the equity method of accounting. in march 2002, mhr merged with prize energy corp., which reduced our direct ownership to approximately 11 percent and reduced the number of mhr board of director positions held by us from two to one. at that time, we began accounting for our investment in mhr as an available-for-sale security and, accordingly, marked the investment to fair value through other 27 table of contents comprehensive income. in the second quarter of 2002, we sold our shares of mhr common stock for a pre-tax gain of approximately $7.6 million, which is included in other income in 2002. we retained approximately 1.5 million stock purchase warrants. we also relinquished our remaining seat on mhr board of directors. the mhr investment and related equity income and loss are reported in the other segment. during 2001, we completed construction of the spring creek power plant, located in logan county, oklahoma, and began operations in mid-2001. four gas-powered turbines provide electricity during peak demand periods. we spent approximately $42.3 million in 2001 and $58.7 million in 2000 constructing the 300-megawatt plant. in 2000, we made two significant asset acquisitions that greatly enhanced our gathering and processing, transportation and storage, and marketing and trading segments. the combined acquisitions included natural gas processing plants with a combined capacity of 1.6 bcf/d, approximately 14,000 miles of gathering and transmission lines, and natural gas storage facilities with a combined capacity of approximately 10 bcf and contributed to a significant increase in trading. the acquisition of these assets demonstrates execution of our strategy of growing through acquisition of assets that complement and strengthen each other. regulatory in 2000, kgs was successful in obtaining temporary approval of weather normalization. kgs also obtained permanent approval of the weatherproof bill program that had been a temporary program. as this is a permanent program, it will remain in effect until kgs requests the program cease. we believe that the successful implementation of these initiatives and programs will reduce the impact of weather on earnings and customer bills. in january 2003, kgs filed a rate case with the kcc to increase rates approximately $76 million. the kcc has 240 days to issue a final order on the rate case. if approved, the new rates will be effective for the 2003/2004 heating season. until a final order is received, kgs will operate under the current rate schedules. the weather normalization rider was included in the rate case filing with the kcc in january 2003. in 2001, the occ issued an order denying ong the right to collect $34.6 million in unrecovered gas costs incurred while serving customers during the 2000/2001 winter season. we appealed this order to the oklahoma supreme court and asked the occ to stay the provisions of this order, pending the outcome of our appeal. the occ subsequently approved our request to stay this order, which allowed ong to collect the $34.6 million, subject to a refund had we ultimately lost the case. a joint stipulation approved by the occ on may 16, 2002, settled a number of outstanding cases pending before the occ, including the commission inquiry into our gas cost procurement practices during the winter of 2000/2001. it also settled cases relating to an application seeking relief from improper and excessive purchased gas costs and an enforcement action against us, our subsidiaries and affiliated companies of ong. in addition, all of the open inquiries related to the annual audits of ong fuel adjustment clause for 1996 to 2000 were closed as a result of this stipulation. the joint stipulation has a $33.7 million value to ong customers that will be realized over a three-year period. in july 2002, immediate cash savings were provided to all ong customers in the form of billing credits totaling approximately $9.1 million, with an additional $1.0 million available for former customers returning to our system. if the additional $1.0 million is not fully refunded to customers returning to the ong system by december 2005, the remainder will be included in the final billing credit. ong has replaced certain gas contracts, which is expected to reduce gas costs by approximately $13.8 million due to avoided reservation fees between april 2003 and october 2005. additional savings of approximately $8.0 million from the use of storage service in lieu of those contracts are expected to occur between november 2003 and march 2005. any expected savings from the use of storage that are not achieved, any remaining billing credits not issued to returning customers and an additional $1.8 million credit will be added to the final billing credit scheduled to be provided to customers in december 2005. ong operating income increased by $14.2 million for the fiscal year ended december 31, 2002, compared to 2001 as a result of this settlement and the revision of the estimated loss recorded in the fourth quarter of 2001. other on january 1, 2003, we adopted the provisions of statement of financial accounting standards no. 123, accounting for stock-based compensation (statement 123) and will expense the fair value of all stock options beginning with options granted on or after january 1, 2003. see note a of the notes to consolidated financial statements for disclosure of our pro forma net income and earnings per share information had we applied the provisions of statement 123 for the years ended december 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000. critical accounting policies and estimates our discussion and analysis of financial condition and operations are based on our consolidated financial statements, prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america and included in this 28 table of contents report on form 10-k. certain amounts included in or affecting our financial statements and related disclosure must be estimated, requiring us to make certain assumptions with respect to values or conditions which cannot be known with certainty at the time the financial statements are prepared. therefore, the reported amounts of our assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses and associated disclosures with respect to contingent assets and obligations are necessarily affected by these estimates. we evaluate these estimates on an ongoing basis, utilizing historical experience, consultation with experts and other methods we consider reasonable in the particular circumstances. nevertheless, actual results may differ significantly from our estimates. we believe that certain accounting policies are of more significance in our financial statement preparation process than others, as discussed below. energy trading and risk management activities we engage in price risk management activities for both energy trading and non-trading purposes. through 2002, we accounted for price risk management activities for our energy trading contracts in accordance with eitf 98-10. eitf 98-10 requires entities involved in energy trading activities to account for energy trading contracts using mark-to-market accounting. forwards, swaps, options, and energy transportation and storage contracts utilized for trading activities are reflected at fair value as assets and liabilities from price risk management activities in the consolidated balance sheets. the fair value of these assets and liabilities is affected by the actual timing of settlements related to these contracts and current period changes resulting primarily from newly originated transactions and the impact of price movements. changes in fair value are recognized in net revenues, on a net basis, in the consolidated statements of income. market prices used to determine fair value of these assets and liabilities reflect management best estimate considering various factors, including closing exchange and over-the-counter quotations, time value and volatility underlying the commitments. market prices are adjusted for the potential impact of liquidating our position in an orderly manner over a reasonable period of time under present market conditions. during the third quarter of 2002, we adopted the applicable provisions of eitf 02-3. eitf 02-3 provides that all mark-to-market gains and losses on energy trading contracts should be presented on a net basis (energy contract sales less energy contract costs) in the income statement without regard to the settlement provisions of the contract. prior to the third quarter of 2002, energy trading revenues and costs were presented on a gross basis. the historical financial results of all energy trading contracts have been restated to reflect the adoption of eitf 02-3. energy trading revenues include natural gas, reservation fees, crude oil, natural gas liquids, and basis. basis is the natural gas price differential that exists between two trading locations relative to the henry hub price. in october 2002, the eitf of the fasb rescinded eitf 98-10. as a result, energy-related contracts that are not accounted for pursuant to statement 133, will no longer be carried at fair value, but rather will be accounted for as executory contracts and accounted for on an accrual basis. as a result of the rescission of this statement, the eitf also agreed that energy trading inventories carried under storage agreements should no longer be carried at fair value but should be carried at the lower of cost or market. the rescission is effective for all fiscal periods beginning after december 31, 2002 and for all existing energy trading contracts and inventory as of october 25, 2002. additionally, the rescission applies immediately to contracts entered into on or after october 25, 2002. changes to the accounting for existing contracts as a result of the rescission of eitf 98-10 will be reported as a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle on january 1, 2003. at this time, we estimate this will result in a cumulative effect loss, net of tax, of approximately $141.0 million. any impact from this change will be non-cash. all recoveries of the estimated value associated with this change in accounting will be recognized in operating income in future periods. the impact of adopting the rescission of eitf 98-10 will be included in the march 31, 2003 financial statements. regulation our intrastate transmission pipelines and distribution operations are subject to the rate regulation and accounting requirements of the occ, kcc and trc. certain of our other transportation activities are subject to regulation by the ferc. allocation of costs and revenues to accounting periods for ratemaking and regulatory purposes may differ from bases generally applied by non-regulated operations. such allocations to meet regulatory accounting requirements are considered to be generally accepted accounting principles for regulated utilities, provided that there is a demonstrable ability to recover any deferred costs in future rates. during the rate-making process, regulatory commissions may require a utility to defer recognition of certain costs to be recovered through rates over time as opposed to expensing such costs as incurred. this allows the utility to stabilize rates over time rather than passing such costs on to the customer for immediate recovery. this causes certain expenses to be deferred as a regulatory asset and amortized to expense as they are recovered through rates. continued recovery of all regulatory assets is expected. should recovery cease due to regulatory actions, a write-off of regulatory assets and stranded costs may be required. 29 table of contents impairments we assess for impairment of long-lived assets when indicators of impairment are present. an impairment is recognized if the undiscounted cash flows are not sufficient to recover the asset carrying amount. impairment loss is measured by comparing the fair value of the asset to its carrying amount. fair values are based on discounted future cash flows or information provided by sales and purchases of similar assets. see further discussion of our significant accounting policies in note a of notes to the consolidated financial statements. consolidated operations the following table sets forth certain selected financial information for the periods indicated. years ended december 31, 2002 2001 2000 financial results (thousands of dollars) operating revenues, excluding energy trading revenues $ 1,894,851 $ 1,814,180 $ 1,932,591 energy trading revenues, net 209,429 101,761 63,588 cost of gas 1,128,620 1,089,566 1,250,527 net revenues 975,660 826,375 745,652 operating costs 456,339 437,233 301,723 depreciation, depletion, and amortization 147,843 133,533 119,425 operating income $ 371,478 $ 255,609 $ 324,504 other income $ 12,426 $ 9,852 $ 40,419 other expense $ 19,038 $ 8,976 $ 21,944 discontinued operations, net of taxes (note c) income from discontinued component $ 10,648 $ 24,879 $ 5,826 cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle, net of tax $ $ (2,151 ) $ 2,115 operating results increased energy trading revenues, net in 2002 compared to 2001 were achieved by diversifying our portfolio to include crude oil and natural gas liquids. the increased use of storage and transport capacity also contributed to our ability to capture price volatility in energy trading. mark-to-market earnings were $42.6 million in 2002 compared to $35.3 million in 2001 and contributed to the increase in energy trading revenues, net. net revenues in 2002 include the $14.0 million recovery of a portion of the costs related to enron sales contracts that were written off in the fourth quarter of 2001 and the $14.2 million adjustment due to the occ settlement. write-off of these costs totaled $72.0 million in 2001. we also benefited in the marketing and trading segment from the renegotiation of certain long-term transportation contracts in 2002. operating costs increased in 2002 compared to 2001 due primarily to higher employee costs. other income in 2002 includes a $7.6 million gain related to the sale of our investment in mhr, a $1.5 million gain related to the sale of certain oklahoma property rights in the transportation and storage segment, and a $1.9 million gain related to the sale of certain texas transmission assets in the transportation and storage segment. other expense in 2002 includes $2.1 million of ongoing litigation costs associated with our terminated acquisition of southwest and $8.0 million for the settlement of litigation with southwest and southern union. interest expense decreased in 2002 compared to 2001 primarily due to the interest rate swaps we have in place that reduced interest expense by $20.6 million in 2002, compared to a $5.3 million reduction in 2001, from what the expense would have been with fixed rates. interest expense also decreased due to the reduced balance in commercial paper and lower interest rates relating to commercial paper. see note d of the notes to consolidated financial statements for further discussion of interest rate swaps. a full year of operations of the assets acquired in march and april of 2000 contributed to increased net revenues in 2001 compared to 2000, despite lower energy prices in the latter part of 2001, and increased operating costs and depreciation, depletion and amortization. our ability to successfully execute our transportation and storage arbitrage strategy also continued to favorably impact operating results. the impact of the occ ruling related to the recovery of gas costs from the 2000/2001 winter reduced operating income by $34.6 million and the impact of the enron bankruptcy reduced operating 30 table of contents income by $37.4 million in 2001. included in other income for 2001 is $8.1 million in income from equity investments including mhr. other expense in 2001 includes $3.7 million of ongoing litigation costs associated with the terminated acquisition of southwest and a $1.5 million insurance deductible payment related to the yaggy storage facility. the reduction in the effective tax rate for 2001 is the result of changes in estimates of prior year tax liabilities recorded in the third quarter. interest expense increased in 2001 compared to 2000 as a result of increased debt, primarily due to financing of acquisitions and increased working capital including unrecovered purchased gas costs. we had interest rate swaps in place that reduced interest expense by $5.3 million in 2001 from what the expense would have been with fixed interest rates. see note k to the notes to consolidated financial statements for further discussion of interest rate swaps. marketing and trading operational highlights our company marketing and trading operation purchases, stores, markets, and trades natural gas to both the wholesale and retail sectors throughout most of the united states. we have strong mid-continent region storage positions and transport capacity of 1 bcf/d that allow us to trade natural gas from border to border and coast to coast. with total storage capacity of 80 bcf, withdrawal capability of 2.4 bcf/d and injection capability of 1.3 bcf/d, we have direct access to most regions of the country and flexibility to capture volatility in the energy markets. we continue to enhance our strategy of focusing on higher margin business which includes providing reliable service during peak demand periods through the use of storage and transportation capacity. we constructed a peak electric power generating plant in mid-2001. the 300-megawatt plant is located in oklahoma adjacent to one of our natural gas storage facilities and is configured to supply electric power during peak demand periods. this plant allows us to capture the spark spread premium, which is the value added by converting natural gas to electricity, during peak demand periods. during the first quarter of 2002, our power segment was combined with our marketing and trading segment, eliminating the power segment. this reflects our strategy of trading around the capacity of our electric generating plant. all segment data has been restated to reflect this change. during the third quarter of 2002, we adopted certain provisions of eitf 02-3, which provides that all mark-to-market gains and losses on energy trading contracts should be presented on a net basis (energy contract sales less energy contract costs) in the income statement without regard to the settlement provisions of the contract. prior to the third quarter of 2002, our energy trading revenues and costs were presented on a gross basis. the financial results of all energy trading contracts have been restated to reflect the adoption of eitf 02-3 for all periods presented. eitf 02-3 does not affect power-related revenues, which will continue to be reported on a gross basis. in october 2002, the eitf rescinded eitf 98-10. as a result, energy-related contracts that are not accounted for pursuant to statement 133, will no longer be carried at fair value, but rather will be accounted for as executory contracts and accounted for on an accrual basis. as a result of the rescission of this statement, the task force also agreed that energy-trading inventories carried under storage agreements should no longer be carried at fair value, but should be carried at the lower of cost or market. the rescission is effective for fiscal periods beginning after december 31, 2002 and for all existing energy trading contracts and inventory as of october 25, 2002. additionally, the rescission applies immediately to contracts entered into on or after october 25, 2002. changes to the accounting for existing contracts as a result of the rescission of eitf 98-10 will be reported as a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle on january 1, 2003. at this time, we estimate this will result in a cumulative effect loss, net of tax, of approximately $141.0 million. any impact from this change will be non-cash. all recoveries of the estimated value associated with this change in accounting will be recognized in operating income in future periods. the impact of adopting the rescission of eitf 98-10 will be included in our march 31, 2003 financial statements. the following tables set forth certain selected financial and operating information for the marketing and trading segment for the periods indicated. 31 table of contents years ended december 31, 2002 2001 2000 financial results (thousands of dollars) energy trading revenues, net $ 209,429 $ 101,761 $ 63,588 power sales 71,749 28,101 cost of power and fuel 67,646 21,234 other revenues 948 1,659 2,894 net revenues 214,480 110,287 66,482 operating costs 27,674 32,846 14,321 depreciation, depletion, and amortization 5,298 2,611 887 operating income $ 181,508 $ 74,830 $ 51,274 other income, net $ (4,871 ) $ 253 $ cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle, net of tax $ $ $ 2,115 years ended december 31, 2002 2001 2000 operating information natural gas volumes ( mmcf ) 998,537 977,602 990,033 natural gas gross margin ( $/mcf ) $ 0.13 $ 0.10 $ 0.06 power volumes ( mmwh ) 2,228 467 power gross margin ( $/mwh ) $ 1.73 $ 14.69 $ physically settled volumes ( mmcf )( a ) 1,990,371 1,989,186 1,915,511 capital expenditures ( thousands ) $ 2,340 $ 43,486 $ 59,512 (a) this represents the absolute value of gross transaction volumes for both buy and sell energy trading contracts that were physically settled. operating results energy trading revenues include revenues related to trading natural gas, reservation fees, crude oil, natural gas liquids, and basis. basis is the natural gas price differential that exists between trading locations relative to the henry hub natural gas price. we began actively trading crude oil and natural gas liquids in this segment in the first quarter of 2002. net revenues significantly increased in 2002 over 2001 while sales volumes increased only slightly. the increase in net revenues is attributable to our use of storage and transport capacity to capture the significant intra-month and regional price volatility from border to border and coast to coast. our storage and transport capacity also enabled us to secure positive option value and favorable winter/summer spreads on stored gas volumes. in 2002, we also diversified our marketing and trading portfolio to include crude oil and natural gas liquids, which positively impacted our net revenues. we also benefited from the renegotiation of certain long-term transportation contracts. power-related margins decreased in 2002 compared to 2001, despite higher sales volume, due to comparatively smaller spark spreads and reduced volatility in the southwest power pool. in the first quarter of 2002, we sold our enron bankruptcy claim, which added $10.4 million to our net revenues. our net revenues for the years ended 2002, 2001 and 2000 include income recognized from mark-to-market accounting of approximately $42.6 million, $35.3 million and $24.3 million, respectively. as a percentage of energy trading revenues, net, mark-to-market earnings have declined each year, indicative of our strategy of focusing on our physical leased transportation and storage assets and enabling us to capture the embedded optionality we possess with the price volatility due to the physical changes in supply and demand. operating costs were lower in 2002 compared to 2001 as the prior year included a reserve for enron-related bad debts of $14.5 million. excluding the enron-related reserve, operating costs were higher in 2002 due to increased employee costs and the addition of trading, risk management, and support personnel. 32 table of contents other income, net decreased in 2002 compared to 2001 primarily due to an increase in fees paid to affiliated parties for use of corporate capital related to performance guarantees issued to oemt. our natural gas sales volumes averaged 2.8 bcf/d in 2002 and 2.7 bcf/d in 2001 and 2000, while our margin per mcf increased in 2002 over the prior year due to the price volatility in the market. capital expenditures in 2001 and 2000 consist primarily of costs related to the construction of the electric generating plant, which was completed in mid-2001. the increase in our net revenues in 2001 compared to 2000 is attributable to our ability to capture higher margins by arbitraging regional price volatility through the use of our storage and transportation capacity. we were also able to capture wider winter/summer spreads on stored volumes and benefited from falling prices that positively impacted fuel costs associated with our long-term transportation contracts, while sales volumes decreased slightly. increased operating costs were due primarily to increased personnel costs required to operate the expanded base of marketing and trading activities acquired in 2000. also, the enron bankruptcy resulted in a $22.9 million increase in cost of gas and a $14.5 million increase in operating costs, totaling a $37.4 million negative impact on operating results for 2001. gross margin per mcf improved in 2001 compared to 2000, as we had fully integrated our mid-continent marketing and trading base following the acquisition in 2000 and were successfully executing our strategies for transportation and use of storage that focus on capturing higher margin sales. gathering and processing operational highlights the gathering and processing segment is engaged in the gathering and processing of natural gas and the fractionation, storage and marketing of ngls. our gathering and processing segment currently has a processing capacity of approximately 1.993 bcf/d, of which approximately 0.107 bcf/d is currently idle. the capacity associated with plants owned or leased is approximately 1.776 bcf/d, while the amount of the plant capacity that we own an interest in but do not operate is approximately 0.110 bcf/d. our gathering and processing segment owns approximately 13,962 miles of gathering pipelines that supply our gas processing plants. in december 2002, we completed the sale of three processing plants and related gathering assets, along with interest in a fourth processing plant, all located in oklahoma, to an affiliate of mustang fuel corporation. the sale reduced our processing capacity by 0.136 bcf/d. the capacity associated with plants owned or leased was reduced by 0.122 bcf/d, while the amount of the plant capacity that we own an interest in but do not operate was reduced by 0.014 bcf/d. the sale also reduced our gathering pipelines that supply our gas processing plant by approximately 2,800 miles. the following tables set forth certain selected financial and operating information for the gathering and processing segment for the periods indicated. years ended december 31, 2002 2001 2000 financial results (thousands of dollars) natural gas liquids and condensate sales $ 654,930 $ 587,842 $ 536,470 gas sales 380,095 635,569 426,364 gathering, compression, dehydration and processing fees and other revenues 98,196 91,406 73,879 cost of sales 938,843 1,125,196 812,701 net revenues 194,378 189,621 224,012 operating costs 127,747 116,853 90,501 depreciation, depletion, and amortization 33,523 29,201 22,692 operating income $ 33,108 $ 43,567 $ 110,819 other income, net $ (1,119 ) $ (178 ) $ 26,460 33 table of contents years ended december 31, 2002 2001 2000 gas processing plants operating information total gas gathered (mmmbtu/d) 1,205 1,331 1,171 total gas processed (mmmbtu/d) 1,411 1,420 1,206 natural gas liquids sales (mbbls/d) 95 76 66 natural gas liquids produced (mbbls/d) 73 74 69 gas sales (mmmbtu/d) 343 391 315 capital expenditures (thousands) $ 43,101 $ 51,442 $ 32,383 operating results the increase in ngl and condensate sales revenues in 2002 compared to 2001 is primarily due to the additional sales volumes generated from the ngl pipeline facilities leased at the end of 2001. this increase was partially offset by a decrease in composite ngl prices and crude oil prices. the conway opis composite ngl price based on our ngl product mix for 2002 decreased from $0.48 per gallon in 2001 to $0.40 per gallon in 2002. the average nymex crude oil price decreased from $26.60 per barrel in 2001 to $25.41 per barrel in 2002. gas sales and cost of sales decreased in 2002 compared to 2001, due to lower volumes sold and decreases in natural gas prices. average natural gas price for the mid-continent region decreased from $4.16 per mmbtu for 2001 to $3.00 per mmbtu in 2002. lower sales volumes in 2002 compared to 2001 were primarily the result of the change in plant operations to decrease the ngl recovery in the first quarter of 2001 due to the high value of natural gas relative to ngl prices, which increased natural gas sales in 2001. the increase in net revenues in 2002 compared to 2001 is primarily due to contractual changes, customer elections regarding processing, and the relative value of ngls compared to natural gas. these increases were partially offset by the effects of an ice storm in the first quarter of 2002 that caused plant outages across much of oklahoma, and the sale of certain gathering and processing assets in december 2002. the increase in operating costs in 2002 compared to 2001 is primarily due to additional costs associated with the ngl pipeline facilities leased at the end of 2001. operating costs also increased for customer charge offs, increased bad debt reserves and higher employee costs. the increase in depreciation, depletion and amortization in 2002 compared to 2001 is primarily due to the $2.4 million loss taken in the third quarter associated with the gas processing plants that were sold in the fourth quarter of 2002. an additional loss of $1.3 million on the assets sold was taken in the fourth quarter and is included in other income, net. depreciation expense also increased as a result of increased property, plant and equipment. a full year of operation of assets acquired in early 2000 contributed to increased revenues and cost of sales for 2001 compared to 2000. however, decreased processing spreads and lower natural gas prices resulted in lower net revenues for 2001. in the first quarter of 2001, there were negative processing spreads for the first time in more than 10 years and intermonth volatility during the year was the greatest it had been at any time during that same 10-year period. the overall processing spread for 2001 was approximately 75 percent of the previous 10-year average of $1.29 per mmbtu. during the year, crude oil and natural gas prices ranged from $32.19 per barrel and $9.98 per mmbtu to $17.72 per barrel and $1.83 per mmbtu, respectively. the downturn of the economy reduced the demand for many ngl products, particularly ethane, which is a major component of plastic products. additionally, record high inventories in natural gas and other petroleum products, such as propane, along with significantly warmer than normal temperatures across north america during the heating season lowered demand for natural gas, home heating oil and propane, causing weaker than expected prices in 2001. increased operating costs and depreciation, depletion, and amortization in 2001 were the result of a full year of operation for the assets acquired in 2000. volumes of natural gas gathered and processed, ngl sales, ngls produced and gas sales increased for 2001 compared to 2000 primarily due to a full year of operation of the assets acquired in 2000, which provided increased processing and fractionation capacity. average ngl prices for 2001 decreased compared to 2000, which offset the impact of the increased volumes. the conway opis composite ngl price based on our ngl product mix for 2001 decreased 11 percent from $0.53 per gallon to $0.47 per gallon. average natural gas prices increased for the same period despite decreases during the last half of 2001. the gas price for the mid-continent region increased 11 percent in 2001 from an average of $3.74 mmbtu to an average of $4.16 mmbtu. 34 table of contents risk management at december 31, 2002 and 2001, the gathering and processing segment had a portion of its natural gas costs and ngl production hedged. we also used derivative instruments during 2002 and 2001 to minimize risk associated with price volatility. see item 7a quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk and note d of notes to consolidated financial statements. transportation and storage operating highlights our transportation and storage segment represents our intrastate natural gas transmission pipelines, natural gas storage and nonprocessable gas gathering facilities. we own or lease five storage facilities in oklahoma, three in kansas and three in texas, with a combined working capacity of approximately 59.6 bcf, of which 9.5 bcf is temporarily idle. our intrastate transmission pipelines operate in oklahoma, kansas and texas and are regulated by the occ, kcc, and trc, respectively. in july 2002, we completed a transaction to transfer certain transmission assets in kansas to our affiliated distribution company in kansas. all historical financial and statistical information has been adjusted to reflect this transfer. in december 2002, certain oklahoma storage property rights were sold and a long-term agreement was entered into with the purchaser, whereby we retain storage capacity consistent with our historical usage. the following tables set forth certain selected financial and operating information for the transportation and storage segment for the periods indicated. years ended december 31, 2002 2001 2000 financial results (thousands of dollars) transportation and gathering revenues $ 89,349 $ 102,092 $ 77,720 storage revenues 37,101 37,645 38,464 gas sales and other revenues 37,784 23,326 35,882 cost of fuel and gas 46,650 49,626 42,876 net revenues 117,584 113,437 109,190 operating costs 46,694 42,357 34,645 depreciation, depletion, and amortization 17,563 17,990 17,439 operating income $ 53,327 $ 53,090 $ 57,106 other income, net $ 4,649 $ 2,578 $ 3,240 years ended december 31, 2002 2001 2000 operating information volumes transported (mmcf) 507,972 486,866 486,542 capital expenditures (thousands) $ 20,554 $ 32,378 $ 32,688 operating results transportation and gathering revenues decreased in 2002 compared to 2001 primarily due to a decrease in the price of natural gas and its impact on the valuation of retained fuel. this was partially offset by an increase in the volumes transported. the average price of natural gas for the mid-continent region decreased 28 percent to $3.00 per mmbtu in 2002 compared to $4.16 per mmbtu in 2001. gas sales and other revenues increased in 2002 compared to 2001 primarily due to increased gas inventory sales, partially offset by lower gas sales volumes associated with wellhead purchases on certain gathering facilities in oklahoma. cost of fuel and gas decreased in 2002 compared to 2001 due to decreased natural gas prices for fuel and decreases in gas sales volumes and fuel volumes primarily associated with our wellhead purchases. these decreases were partially offset by adjustments resulting from the reconciliation of third party contractual storage and pipeline imbalance positions and costs related to gas inventory sales. increased gas inventory sales were the primary reason net revenues increased in 2002 compared to 2001. this increase was partially offset by costs resulting from the reconciliation of third party contractual storage and pipeline imbalance positions. 35 table of contents the increase in operating costs in 2002 compared to 2001 is due primarily to the settlement of certain legal proceedings, increased bad debt expense, and increased employee costs. other income, net increased in 2002 compared to 2001 primarily due to a gain on the sale of certain storage assets in oklahoma and transmission assets in texas. transportation revenues increased for 2001 compared to 2000 due to higher retained fuel from a full year of operation of assets acquired in early 2000. the expiration of gas sales contracts acquired in early 2000 resulted in a decrease of $4.6 million in gas sales revenue in 2001. while revenues from unaffiliated companies decreased as gas sales contracts expired, revenues from transportation contracts replaced the margin generated by those expired gas sales contracts. the increase in cost of fuel in 2001 compared to 2000 is due to a full year of operation of the assets acquired in 2000 and increased gas prices. operating costs increased due to higher ad valorem taxes, labor and other operating costs associated with a full year of operation of the assets acquired in 2000. depreciation, depletion and amortization also increased in 2001 due to the 2000 acquisitions. regulatory initiatives in a may 2000 occ order, our transportation assets in oklahoma included in the transportation and storage segment became a separate regulated utility from the distribution segment. we have flexibility in establishing transportation rates with customers; however, there is a maximum rate that we can charge our customers. we are competing for gathering and storage business at market-based rates. distribution operational highlights the distribution segment provides natural gas distribution services in oklahoma and kansas. our operations in oklahoma are conducted through ong, which serves residential, commercial, and industrial customers and leases pipeline capacity. our operations in kansas are conducted through kgs, which serves residential, commercial, and industrial customers. the distribution segment serves about 80 percent of the population of oklahoma and about 75 percent of the population of kansas. ong and kgs are subject to regulatory oversight by the occ and kcc, respectively. the following table set forth certain selected financial and operating information for the distribution segment for the periods indicated. years ended december 31, 2002 2001 2000 financial results (thousands of dollars) gas sales $ 1,140,257 $ 1,434,184 $ 1,198,604 cost of gas 806,251 1,141,668 888,464 gross margin 334,006 292,516 310,140 pcl and ect revenues 59,877 55,206 59,205 other revenues 20,510 21,578 16,128 net revenues 414,393 369,300 385,473 operating costs 243,170 237,657 210,252 depreciation, depletion, and amortization 76,063 70,359 68,917 operating income $ 95,160 $ 61,284 $ 106,304 other income, net $ (3,183 ) $ (3,566 ) $ (3,321 ) operating results the decrease in gas sales and cost of gas in 2002 compared to 2001 is primarily attributable to lower natural gas prices in 2002, as well as the recognition of unusually high natural gas prices in 2001 from the 2000/2001 winter. the occ joint stipulation resulted in $14.2 million being recorded as a reduction in the cost of gas in 2002. gas sales and cost of gas increased in 2001 compared to 2000 due to a higher weighted average cost of gas. although prices of natural gas decreased in the latter part of 2001 from their historically high levels during the winter of 2000/2001, the higher priced gas incurred during late 2000 and early 2001 were not immediately recovered from customers. action taken by the occ, combined with the functioning of our purchased gas cost recovery mechanisms, delayed the recovery and recognition of a portion of these high gas costs. in the fourth quarter of 2001, we recorded a $34.6 million charge to cost of gas as a result of the occ order limiting ong recovery of gas purchase expense related to the 2000/2001 winter. this resulted in a decrease in gross margin on gas sales in 36 table of contents 2001 compared to 2000. kgs gross margin increased $3.0 million in 2001 over 2000 due to impact of the weather normalization program offsetting the warmer weather. ect revenues decreased $3.4 million in 2001 from 2000 due largely to lower volumes delivered to electric generation customers due to milder summer weather. operating costs increased in 2002 compared to 2001 due primarily to increased employee costs. operating costs for 2001 increased over 2000 due to additional bad debt expense of $19.2 million incurred as a result of the increased natural gas prices during the winter of 2000/2001. this was partially offset by a reduction in operating costs due to the continuation of a successful cost containment program. the following tables set forth certain selected financial and operating information for the distribution segment for the periods indicated. years ended december 31, 2002 2001 2000 gross margin per mcf oklahoma residential $ 2.48 $ 2.47 $ 2.76 commercial $ 2.20 $ 1.95 $ 1.97 industrial $ 1.39 $ 1.20 $ 1.09 pipeline capacity leases $ 0.29 $ 0.30 $ 0.27 kansas residential $ 2.54 $ 2.62 $ 2.53 commercial $ 1.94 $ 1.99 $ 2.00 industrial $ 1.42 $ 1.46 $ 1.62 wholesale $ 0.10 $ 0.09 $ 0.14 end-use customer transportation $ 0.49 $ 0.61 $ 0.63 years ended december 31, 2002 2001 2000 volumes (mmcf) gas sales residential 104,559 102,976 107,154 commercial 36,456 40,578 40,713 industrial 3,243 4,101 5,582 wholesale 32,082 31,060 34,781 total volumes sold 176,340 178,715 188,230 pcl and ect 163,657 136,975 158,100 total volumes delivered 339,997 315,690 346,330 gross margin per mcf for oklahoma residential customers remained essentially the same for 2002 compared to 2001 due to volumes sold remaining flat for the two periods. the number of residential customers increased slightly due to fewer customers being disconnected. gross margin per mcf increased for oklahoma commercial and industrial customers in 2002 compared to 2001 due to lower volumes being sold. when volumes are lower, the tiered rate structure results in a greater percent of gas to be delivered at a higher delivery fee. the fixed customer fee per customer also results in a higher margin when sales are lower. the lower volumes are a result of economic factors causing commercial and industrial customers to reduce their overall consumption. gross margin per mcf for oklahoma pcl customers decreased for 2002 compared to 2001 due to the increase in volumes transported by high volume users and the rate per mcf being less for high volume users. pcl volumes returned to a more normal level in 2002 after industrial customers curtailed production in 2001 due to high gas costs. volume increases in 2002 were also due to customers moving from commercial and industrial rates to the new transport rates, and a marketing effort to add small usage pcl customers. 37 table of contents the decrease in kansas residential and commercial gross margins per mcf for 2002 from 2001 results from a decrease in weather normalization revenues. the weather normalization program provides for additional revenues when heating degree days are less than normal and reduces revenue when heating degree days are greater than normal. the changes in revenue from the program do not impact the volumes sold and result in a per unit deviation. kansas industrial customers are billed on rates that decrease with increased volumes, or step rates, during the months of april through october. during these months, industrial customers are billed at base rates for the first block of volumes and they are billed at approximately half the base rate for a second block of volumes. a greater number of volumes were sold at the lower rate second block for 2002 compared to 2001, resulting in a lower unit margin for 2002. end-use customer transportation (ect) margins per mcf decreased for 2002 compared to 2001 due to greater volumes sold to lower margin interruptible transport service customers. the increase in ect volumes in 2002 from 2001 is largely due to the assumption of large volume customers by kansas with the transfer of the mcmc transmission pipeline assets. additionally, warmer and dryer weather increased volumes to irrigation and gas-fired electric generation customers. the decrease in residential volumes sold in 2001 was due to warmer weather in 2001 compared to 2000. industrial sales for oklahoma and wholesale sales for kansas decreased during the same period due to the movement of some customers to the pcl program in oklahoma and the ect program in kansas. oklahoma gross margin per mcf for industrial customers increased in 2001 compared to 2000 due to decreased volumes resulting in a greater percent of gas delivered at a higher cost under the tiered rate schedule. a full year of tariff rate reductions in 2001 resulted in a decrease to gross margin per mcf for residential and commercial. the decrease in pcl and ect volumes in 2001 compared to 2000 was primarily due to the fact that some customers that use significant quantities of gas in their manufacturing process suspended manufacturing operations in late 2000 and early 2001 due to unusually high natural gas prices. these decreases were partially offset by reducing our minimum capacity requirements for customers to become eligible for pcl and ect services pursuant to a regulatory order. the reduction of the minimum requirements allowed more low volume customers to be added to the customer base. the following table sets forth certain selected financial and operating information for the distribution segment for the periods indicated. years ended december 31, 2002 2001 2000 operating information average number of customers 1,439,657 1,436,444 1,418,444 customers per employee 623 611 572 capital expenditures (thousands) $ 115,569 $ 133,470 $ 129,996 our capital expenditure program includes expenditures for extending service to new areas, modifying customer service lines, increasing system capabilities, and general replacements and betterments. it is our practice to maintain and periodically upgrade facilities to assure safe, reliable, and efficient operations. the capital expenditure program included $18.3 million, $22.4 million, and $21.4 million for new business development in 2002, 2001, and 2000, respectively. regulatory initiatives kgs filed a rate case on january 31, 2003 to increase rates by $76 million. the kcc has up to 240 days to review the application and issue a final order. if approved, the new rates would become effective for the 2003/2004 winter heating season. until regulatory approval is received, kgs will operate under the current rate schedules. in january 2003, we closed on the purchase of all the texas assets of southern union for $420 million, subject to adjustment. the gas distribution operations serve approximately 535,000 customers in cities located throughout the state of texas, including the major cities of el paso and austin, as well as the cities of port arthur, galveston, brownsville, and others. over 90 percent of the customers are residential. the acquisition will be reflected in our march 31, 2003 financial statements. operating income for the texas properties for the twelve months ending june 30, 2002, was $41.2 million, of which approximately 95 percent was related to the texas distribution operations. in july 2002, we completed a transaction to transfer certain transmission assets in kansas from our transportation and storage segment to kgs. all historical financial and statistical information has been adjusted to reflect this transfer. 38 table of contents ong continues to take an active role in response to the occ notice of inquiry regarding the use of physical and financial instruments to hedge against fuel procurement volatility. ong exercised provisions contained in a number of its gas supply contracts that allow us to fix the price of a portion of its gas supply. ong fixed the price of approximately 37% of its anticipated 2002/2003 winter gas supply deliveries. ong received approval from the occ to create a voluntary fixed price pilot program that will enable its general sales customers to fix the gas cost portion of their bill for a specified winter period. the program was initiated to provide customers with a means of controlling their 2002/2003 gas bills. over 20,000 customers signed up for this program for the first heating season. a joint stipulation approved by the occ on may 16, 2002, settled a number of outstanding cases pending before the occ. the major cases settled were the commission inquiry into our gas cost procurement practices during the winter of 2000/2001; an application seeking relief from improper and excessive purchased gas costs; and an enforcement action against us, our subsidiaries and affiliated companies of ong. in addition, all of the open inquiries related to the annual audits of ong fuel adjustment clause for 1996 to 2000 were closed as a result of this stipulation. the joint stipulation has a $33.7 million value to ong customers that will be realized over a three-year period. in july 2002, immediate cash savings were provided to all ong customers in the form of billing credits totaling approximately $9.1 million, with an additional $1.0 million available for former customers returning to our system. if the additional $1.0 million is not fully refunded to customers returning to the ong system by december 2005, the remainder will be included in the final billing credit. ong is replacing certain gas contracts, which is expected to reduce gas costs by approximately $13.8 million due to avoided reservation fees between april 2003 and october 2005. additional savings of approximately $8.0 million from the use of storage service in lieu of those contracts are expected to occur between november 2003 and march 2005. any expected savings from the use of storage that are not achieved, any remaining billing credits not issued to returning customers and an additional $1.8 million credit will be added to the final billing credit scheduled to be provided to customers in december 2005. ong operating income increased by $14.2 million in 2002 compared to 2001 as a result of this settlement and the revision of the estimated loss recorded in the fourth quarter of 2001. during 2001, the kcc issued an order extending the time period for which gas service disconnection during inclement weather conditions cannot be made. due to the extension of the time period restricting disconnections, delinquent kgs customers were allowed to continue gas service, thus increasing uncollectible amounts. higher gas costs in the 2000/2001 heating season also contributed to the increased uncollectible amounts. kgs and other distribution companies in kansas filed a joint application with the kcc seeking approval to recover the additional uncollectible amounts incurred during the 2000/2001 heating season until reviewed in the next rate case. the kcc approved the deferral allowing the companies to seek recovery of the extraordinary uncollectible account levels experienced in the 2000/2001 winter. during 2000, the kcc issued an order allowing kgs to recover additional costs of its gas purchase hedging program established to protect the price paid by customers for gas purchases. the kcc approved kgs weatherproof bill program that had been a temporary program. this plan allows customers, at their discretion, to fix their monthly payment. the kcc also granted kgs weather normalization in december 2000 that minimizes weather-related revenue fluctuations. certain costs to be recovered through the ratemaking process have been recorded as regulatory assets in accordance with statement of financial accounting standards no. 71, accounting for the effects of certain types of regulation. although no further unbundling of services is anticipated, should this occur, certain of these assets may no longer meet the criteria of a regulatory asset and, accordingly, a write-off of regulatory assets and stranded costs may be required. we do not anticipate that such a write-off of costs, if any, will be material. production operational highlights our strategy is to concentrate ownership of natural gas and oil reserves in the mid-continent region in order to add value not only to our existing production operations but also to the related gathering, processing, marketing, transportation, and storage businesses. accordingly, we focus on exploitation activities rather than exploratory drilling. as a result of our growth strategy through acquisitions and developmental drilling, the number of wells we operate increased in 2002 prior to the agreement to sell, discussed below, and are expected to increase again as we re-establish reserves. in our role as operator, we control operating decisions that impact production volumes and lifting costs. we continually focus on reducing finding costs and minimizing production costs. 39 table of contents we continually evaluate opportunities to sell properties at premium values when the market allows. in november 2002, we entered into an agreement to sell 1,913 of our wells for approximately $300 million. the assets sold and the results of their operations are reflected as a discontinued operation in the december 31, 2002 financial statements. all financial and statistical information for all periods presented has been restated to reflect the discontinued operation. after the sale, we will continue to own interests in 574 wells, and expect to continue to pursue our oil and gas strategy for growth. during 2002, we acquired approximately $3.7 million in gas and oil properties. through our developmental drilling program, we drilled 117 wells in 2002, of which 38 of the completed wells were retained, compared to 155 wells completed in 2001, of which 44 were retained. the following tables set forth certain selected financial and operating information for the production segment for the periods indicated. years ended december 31, 2002 2001 2000 financial results of continuing operations (thousands of dollars) natural gas sales $ 25,693 $ 31,628 $ 15,542 oil sales 6,654 6,232 3,055 other revenues 107 47 278 net revenues 32,454 37,907 18,875 operating costs 8,332 8,351 6,103 depreciation, depletion, and amortization 13,842 11,240 6,958 operating income $ 10,280 $ 18,316 $ 5,814 other income, net $ (178 ) $ 1,175 $ 545 discontinued operations, net of taxes (note c) income from discontinued component $ 10,648 $ 24,879 $ 5,826 cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle, net of tax $ $ (2,151 ) $ 40 table of contents years ended december 31, 2002 2001 2000 operating information proved reserves continuing operations gas (mmcf) 61,748 67,581 73,892 oil (mbbls) 2,461 2,394 2,302 discontinued component gas (mmcf) 177,828 165,386 180,829 oil ( mbbls) 2,787 2,117 2,037 production continuing operations gas (mmcf) 7,370 8,000 7,759 oil (mbbls) 273 261 143 discontinued component gas (mmcf) 18,036 19,578 18,987 oil (mbbls) 241 232 257 average realized price (a) continuing operations gas ($/mcf) $ 3.49 $ 3.95 $ 2.00 oil ($/bbls) $ 24.37 $ 23.88 $ 21.36 discontinued component gas ($/mcf) $ 3.19 $ 3.89 $ 2.39 oil ( $/bbls) $ 25.00 $ 25.99 $ 21.46 capital expenditures ( thousands) continuing operations $ 17,810 $ 20,429 $ 17,202 discontinued component $ 21,824 $ 35,545 $ 16,833 (a) the average realized price, above, reflects the impact of hedging activities. all proved undeveloped reserves are attributed to locations directly offsetting (adjacent to) productive units. operating results net revenues from continuing operations decreased in 2002 compared to 2001 due to lower realized gas prices. hedging gains of $1.2 million are included in 2002 continuing operations, which partially offset the decline in gas prices. the net revenues for 2001 included hedging losses of $3.6 million. the 2002 revenues from continuing operations also include a recovery of $0.8 million related to the sale of our enron claim on hedging contracts and income from the discontinued component includes $1.9 million related to the enron claim. we also experienced lower gas production in 2002 compared to 2001. operating costs from continuing operations remained flat in 2002 compared to 2001, reflecting lower maintenance costs that were offset by higher administrative costs. depreciation, depletion and amortization for continuing operations increased in 2002 compared to 2001 due primarily to a higher depletion rate on the fields we retained. net revenues for continuing operations increased in 2001 compared to 2000, due to higher natural gas and oil prices and the $7.9 million negative impact of hedging activities in 2000. operating costs increased in 2001 as compared with 2000 as a result of higher production taxes. depreciation, depletion and amortization increased in 2001 compared to 2000 due to increased production and a slightly higher average depletion rate. other income, net in 2001 primarily represents the gain from the sale of the company 40 percent interest in k. stewart. income from the discontinued component is significantly lower in 2002 compared to 2001 primarily due to the lower gas prices received in 2002 compared to 2001. income from the discontinued component is higher in 2001 compared to 2000 due to the higher gas prices received in 2001 compared to 2000 and due to higher losses from gas hedges in 2000 compared to 2001. the production segment added 15.2 bcfe of net reserves in 2002 related to the retained properties, including 9.3 bcfe of proved developed, comprised of 6.1 bcfe of proved developed producing and 3.2 bcfe of proved non-producing. other 41 table of contents adjustments, primarily revision of prior estimates, reduced the year-end reserves of retained wells by 11.6 bcfe. production for the year ended december 31, 2002, on retained wells was 9.0 bcfe. reserve additions for the discontinued component totaled 11.8 bcfe of net reserves in 2002, of which 9.9 bcfe were proved developed, made up of 8.3 bcfe of proved developed producing and 1.6 bcfe of proved non-producing. other adjustments, primarily revisions of prior estimates, reduced the year-end reserves for the discontinued component by an additional 24.1 bcfe. production for the year ended december 31, 2002, for the discontinued component was 19.5 bcfe. capital expenditures primarily relate to the drilling program, which consisted of drilling costs. capital expenditures related to the drilling program for continuing operations were approximately $15.3 million, $19.2 million, and $16.7 million in 2002, 2001, and 2000, respectively. capital expenditures related to the drilling program for discontinued component were $19.8 million, $34.0 million, and $16.1 million in 2002, 2001, and 2000, respectively. risk management the volatility of energy prices has a significant impact on the profitability of this segment. we utilized derivative instruments in 2002 in order to hedge anticipated sales of natural gas and oil production. during the third quarter of 2002, we lifted our natural gas production hedges through december 2004 and fixed the gain on the derivative instruments previously in place related to our natural gas production. we recognize the benefit from the fixed gain as each contract month expires. in 2002, we recognized $3.9 million in natural gas sales revenues related to these hedges. the fixed gains associated with these natural gas production hedges have been deferred in other comprehensive income and will be realized in the month that the natural gas production occurs. at december 31, 2002, the production segment had hedged 72 percent of its anticipated gas production and 62 percent of its anticipated oil production for fiscal year 2003 at a weighted average wellhead price of $4.60 per mcf for gas and $27.25 per bbl for oil. see item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk and note d of notes to consolidated financial statements. liquidity and capital resources general a part of our strategy is to grow through acquisitions that strengthen and complement our existing assets. we have relied primarily on operating cash flow and borrowings from a combination of commercial paper, bank lines of credit, and capital markets for our liquidity and capital resource requirements. we expect to continue to use these sources, together with possible equity financings, such as our recent public common stock and equity unit offerings, for liquidity and capital resource needs on both a short and long-term basis. during 2001 and 2002, our capital expenditures were financed through operating cash flows and short and long-term debt. financing is provided through our commercial paper program, long-term debt and, as needed, through a revolving credit facility. other options to obtain financing include, but are not limited to, issuance of equity, issuance of mandatory convertible debt securities, asset securitization and sale/leaseback of facilities. in august 2002, the company announced that it had completed its tender offer to purchase all of the outstanding 8.44% senior notes due 2004 and the 8.32% senior notes due 2007 for a total purchase price of approximately $65 million. the total purchase price included a premium of approximately $2.9 million and consent fees of approximately $1.8 million to purchase the notes, which are reflected in interest expense in the income statement. in april 2002, the company paid off $240 million of long-term floating rate notes that were issued in 2000. our credit rating is currently an a (stable outlook) by standard and poors and a baa1 with a watch for possible downgrade by moody investor service. our credit rating may be affected by a material change in our financial ratios or a material adverse event affecting our business. the most common criteria for assessment of our credit rating are the debt to capital ratio, pre-tax and after-tax interest debt coverage and liquidity. if our credit ratings were to be downgraded, the interest rates on our commercial paper would increase, resulting in an increase in our cost to borrow funds. in the event that we are unable to borrow funds under our commercial paper program and there has not been a material adverse change in our business, we have access to an $850 million revolving credit facility, which expires september 22, 2003. our energy marketing and trading business relies upon the investment grade rating of our senior unsecured long-term debt to satisfy credit support requirements with several counterparties. if our credit ratings were to decline below investment grade, our ability to participate in energy marketing and trading activity could be significantly limited. without an investment grade rating, we would be required to fund margin requirements with the few counterparties with which we have credit support 42 table of contents annex within our international swaps and derivatives association agreements with cash, letters of credit or other negotiable instruments. at december 31, 2002, the total notional amount that could require such funding in the event of a credit rating decline to below investment grade is approximately $44.2 million. we have reviewed our commercial paper agreement, trust indentures, building leases, bushton equipment leases, and marketing, trading and risk contracts and no rating triggers were identified. rating triggers are defined as provisions that would create an automatic default or acceleration of indebtedness based on a change in our credit rating. the revolving credit agreement does contain a provision that would cause the cost to borrow funds to increase based on the amount borrowed under this agreement if our credit rating is negatively adjusted. this credit agreement also contains a default provision based on a material adverse change, but an adverse rating change is not defined as a default or material adverse change. we currently do not have any funds borrowed under this agreement. we also have no material guarantees of debt or other commitments to unaffiliated parties. we are subject to commodity price volatility. significant fluctuations in commodity price in either physical or financial energy contracts may impact our overall liquidity due to the impact the commodity price change has on items such as the cost of gas held in storage, recoverability and timing of recovery of regulated natural gas costs, increased margin requirements, collectibility of certain energy-related receivables and working capital. we believe that our current commercial paper program and debt capacity are adequate to meet our liquidity requirements associated with commodity price volatility. our pension plan is currently overfunded resulting in an asset reported on the balance sheet. due to the poor performance of the equity market and lower interest rates, the market value of our pension fund assets has decreased and, accordingly, our pension benefit for our pension and supplemental retirement plans will decrease in 2003 from $20.8 million to $7.0 million. should the value of our pension fund assets fall below our accumulated benefit obligation, we would eliminate the asset and record a minimum pension liability on the balance sheet with the difference flowing through other comprehensive income, net of tax. we believe we have adequate resources to fund our obligations under our pension plan as deemed necessary. during 2001, we put in place a stock buyback plan for up to 10 percent of our capital stock. the program authorized us to make purchases of our common stock on the open market with the timing and terms of purchases and the number of shares purchased to be determined by management based on market conditions and other factors. the purchased shares were held in treasury and available for general corporate purposes, funding of stock-based compensation plans, and resale at a future date or retirement. this plan expired in 2002. at that time, we had not purchased any stock under the plan. westar on january 9, 2003, we entered into an agreement with westar energy, inc. and its wholly owned subsidiary, westar industries, inc., to repurchase a portion of the shares of our series a convertible preferred stock (series a) held by westar and to exchange westar remaining 10.9 million shares of series a for 21.8 million newly-created shares of oneok $0.925 series d non-cumulative convertible preferred stock (series d). the series a shares were convertible into two shares of common stock, reflecting the two-for-one stock split in 2001, and the series d shares are convertible into one share of common stock. the series d has substantially the same terms as the series a, except that (a) the series d has a fixed annual cash dividend of 92.5 cents per share, (b) the series d is redeemable by us at any time after august 1, 2006, at a redemption price of $20, in the event that the closing price of our common stock exceeds $25 for 30 consecutive trading days, (c) each share of series d is convertible into one share of our common stock, and (d) westar may not convert any shares of series d held by it unless the annual per share dividend for our common stock for the previous year is greater than 92.5 cents per share and such conversion would not subject us to the public utility holding company act of 1935. our new shareholder agreement also restricts westar from selling more than five percent to any one person or to a group that already owns five percent or more of our common stock. the kcc approved our agreement with westar on january 17, 2003. on february 5, 2003, we consummated the agreement by purchasing $300 million, or approximately 9 million shares (or approximately 18.1 million shares of common stock after the effects of the previous two-for-one stock split) of our series a from westar. we exchanged westar remaining 10.9 million series a shares for approximately 21.8 million shares of our newly-created series d. also, in connection with that transaction, a new rights agreement, a new shareholder agreement and a new registration rights agreement became effective. in addition, we agreed to register for resale, within 60 days after the february 5, 2003 closing, all of the shares of our common stock held by westar, as well as all the shares of our series d issued to westar and all of the shares of our common stock issuable upon conversion of the series d. as a result of this transaction and our recently completed common stock offering, westar ownership interest in our company has been reduced from approximately 44.4 percent to approximately 27.4 percent on a fully diluted basis. oklahoma corporation commission the occ staff filed an application on february 1, 2001 to review the gas procurement practices of ong in acquiring its gas supply for the 2000/2001 heating season to determine if these procurement practices were consistent with least cost procurement practices and whether ong decisions resulted in fair, just and 43 table of contents reasonable costs to its customers. on november 20, 2001, the occ entered an order stating that ong not be allowed to recover the balance in ong unrecovered purchased gas cost (upgc) account related to the unrecovered gas costs from the 2000/2001 winter effective with the first billing cycle for the month following the issuance of a final order. this order halted ong recovery process effective december 1, 2001. on december 12, 2001, the occ approved a request to stay the order and allowed ong to begin collecting unrecovered gas costs, subject to refund had ong ultimately lost the case. in the fourth quarter of 2001, we recorded a charge of $34.6 million as a result of this occ order. in april 2002, we, along with the staff of the public utility division and the consumer services division of the occ, the oklahoma attorney general, and other stipulating parties filed a joint stipulation agreement proposing settlement of this and other issues. a hearing with the occ was held in may 2002 and an order approving the settlement was issued at that time. as a result, we recorded a $14.2 million recovery in the second quarter of 2002 and have the potential of an additional $8.0 million recovery before december 2005 depending upon the potential value that could be generated by gas storage savings. enron enron north america was the counterparty in certain of the financial instruments discussed in our annual report on form 10-k for the year-ended december 31, 2001. enron corporation and various subsidiaries, including enron north america, filed for protection from creditors under chapter 11 of the united states bankruptcy code on december 3, 2001. in 2001, we recorded a charge of $37.4 million to provide an allowance for forward financial positions and to establish an allowance for uncollectible accounts related to previously settled financial and physical positions with enron. in the first quarter of 2002, we recorded a recovery of approximately $14.0 million as a result of an agreement to sell our enron claim to a third party, which is subject to normal representations as to the validity, but not the collectibility, of the claims and the guarantees from enron. the filing of the voluntary bankruptcy proceeding by enron created a possible technical default related to various financing leases tied to our bushton gas processing plant in south central kansas. we acquired the bushton gas processing plant and related leases from kinder morgan in april 2000. kinder morgan had previously acquired the plant and leases from enron. enron is one of three guarantors of these bushton plant leases; however, we are the primary guarantor. in january 2002, we were granted a waiver on the possible technical default related to these leases. we will continue to make all payments due under these leases. cash flow analysis operating cash flows we had a significant increase in earnings in 2002 compared to 2001. in addition, the changes in accounts receivable and accounts payable are primarily due to an increase in energy trading revenues, net. energy trading revenues, net increased due to our use of storage and transport capacity to capture the significant intra-month and regional price volatility. in 2002, we also diversified our marketing and trading portfolio to include crude oil and natural gas liquids. these increases were partially offset by decreases in accounts receivable and accounts payable due to lower natural gas prices in 2002. in addition, we had a full year of operations of the electric generating plant in 2002 compared to 2001. the increase in deferred income taxes is primarily due to increased mark-to-market income in 2002 compared to 2001 and additional tax depreciation taken in 2002. in 2001, the changes in cash flows provided by operating activities primarily reflect changes in working capital accounts, deferred income taxes and price risk management assets and liabilities. the increase in deferred income taxes is primarily due to accelerated depreciation in 2001. the increase in price risk management assets and liabilities is primarily due to the marketing and trading segment gas in storage, which is included in price risk management assets on the consolidated balance sheet. the level of gas held in storage is higher at december 31, 2001, compared to december 31, 2000, due to warmer weather in 2001. cash flow from operating activities was positively impacted in 2001 due to the reduction of accounts receivable, which was partially offset by increased cash used for payment of accounts payable and gas in storage and reduced recovery of unrecovered purchased gas costs. receivables and payables were higher than normal at december 31, 2000, due to higher gas prices and the integration of the businesses acquired in 2000. in 2000, the changes in cash flow provided by operating activities primarily reflect changes in working capital accounts and an increase in price risk management assets and liabilities. the significant changes in working capital accounts, including accounts receivable, gas in storage, accounts payable and deferred credits and other liabilities is primarily a result of the acquisitions and the increase in operations resulting from those acquisitions in 2000 and historically higher gas prices. the increase in price risk management activities is due to the adoption of mark-to-market accounting in 2000. investing cash flows proceeds from the sale of property include approximately $92 million related to the sale of some of our midstream natural gas assets to an affiliate of mustang fuel corporation, a private, independent oil and gas company. proceeds from the sale of equity investments represent the sale of our interest in mhr in 2002. 44 table of contents capital expenditures in 2001 and 2000 include approximately $42.3 million and $58.7 million, respectively, for the construction of the electric generating plant. in 2001, we were reimbursed by an unaffiliated company for approximately $14 million of the costs incurred to construct a pipeline in the transportation and storage segment. due to regulatory treatment, this amount is recorded as a deferred credit in the balance sheet and amortized to income. we also received approximately $7.9 million related to the sale of assets in the production segment in 2001. acquisitions in 2001 include $14.5 million of purchase price adjustments, which resulted in an increase to goodwill, relating to the kinder morgan acquisitions. financing cash flows our capitalization structure is 47 percent equity and 53 percent long-term debt at december 31, 2002, compared to 42 percent equity and 58 percent long-term debt at december 31, 2001. our capitalization structure including notes payable is 43 percent equity and 57 percent total debt at december 31, 2002, compared to 35 percent equity and 65 percent total debt at december 31, 2001. the change in our capital structure is primarily due to the retirement of approximately $300 million of long-term debt and $335 million of notes payable and earnings in excess of dividends in 2002. at december 31, 2002, $1.5 billion of long-term debt, including current maturities, was outstanding. as of that date, we could have issued $1.1 billion of additional long-term debt under the most restrictive provisions contained in our various borrowing agreements. the board of directors has authorized up to $1.2 billion of short term financing to be procured as necessary for our operations. we have an $850 million revolving credit facility with bank of america, n.a. and other financial institutions with a maturity date of september 22, 2003. this credit facility is primarily used to support the commercial paper program. at december 31, 2002, $265.5 million of commercial paper was outstanding. in april 2001, we issued a $400 million, ten year, fixed rate note to refinance short-term debt. in july 2001, we entered into interest rate swaps on debt with a term equal to the term of the notes. the interest rate under these swaps resets periodically based on the three-month london interbank offered rate (libor) or the six-month libor at the reset date. in october 2001, we entered into an agreement to lock in the interest rates for each reset period under the swap agreements through the first quarter of 2003. in january 2003, the rates were locked through the first quarter of 2004. in december 2001, we entered into interest rate swaps on a total of $200 million in fixed rate long-term debt through the term of the note. the interest rate under these swaps resets periodically based on the six-month libor at the reset date. the average interest rate of the $600 million in notes is 6.971 percent. under the current swap agreements, the average interest rate of the notes is an all-in libor rate of approximately 3.516 percent. the all-in libor rate refers to the average libor rate plus or minus the oneok basis spread for all swaps. the swaps resulted in approximately $20.6 million of interest savings in 2002 and are expected to generate an estimated $23.0 million in interest savings in 2003. on july 18, 2001, we filed a shelf registration statement on form s-3 for the issuance and sale of shares of our common stock and debt securities in one or more offerings with an aggregate offering price of up to $500 million. on december 20, 2002, we amended the shelf registration statement on form s-3 to increase the aggregate offering price of securities to be issued under the shelf registration statement to $1.0 billion and to add some additional securities, including preferred stock, stock purchase contracts and stock purchase units. on january 12, 2003, we announced plans for concurrent offerings of our common stock and equity units under our $1.0 billion shelf registration statement. on january 28, 2003, we issued 12 million shares of common stock at the public offering price of $17.19 per share, resulting in net proceeds to us, after underwriting discounts and commissions, of $16.524 per share, or $198.3 million in the aggregate. we granted the underwriters a 30-day over-allotment option to purchase up to an additional 1.8 million shares of our common stock at the same price, which was exercised on february 7, 2003, at the same price per share, resulting in additional net proceeds to us of $29.7 million. also, on january 28, 2003, we issued 14 million equity units at a public offering price of $25 per unit, resulting in net proceeds to us, after underwriting discounts and commissions, of $24.25 per share, or $339.5 million in the aggregate. an over-allotment option allowing the purchase of an additional 2.1 million equity units was exercised on january 31, 2003, increasing the net proceeds to $390.4 million. each equity unit consists of a stock purchase contract for the purchase of shares of our common stock and, initially, a senior note due february 16, 2008, issued pursuant to our existing indenture with suntrust bank, as trustee. the equity units carry a total annual coupon rate of 8.5% (4.0% annual face amount of the senior notes plus 4.5% annual contract adjustment payments). each stock purchase contract issued as a part of the equity units carries a maximum conversion premium of up to 20 percent over the $17.19 closing price of our common stock on january 22, 2003, and a floor of $17.19 per share. 45 table of contents in february 2003, $300 million of the proceeds from these offerings was used to repurchase approximately 9 million shares, or 18.1 million shares of common stock after the effects of the previous two-for-one stock split of our series a convertible preferred stock from westar. the remaining 10.9 million shares of series a convertible preferred stock owned by westar were exchanged for approximately 21.8 million shares of oneok $0.925 series d convertible preferred stock. the series a shares were convertible into two shares of common stock, reflecting the two-for-one stock split in 2001, and the series d shares are convertible into one share of common stock. the series d convertible preferred stock has an annual dividend rate of $0.925 per share. because the series d convertible preferred stock does not participate in earnings above the amount of the stated dividend rate, we will not be required to apply the provisions of eitf topic d-95 beginning in february 2003. under topic d-95, we were required to reduce eps by the dilutive effect of the two-class method of eps computation. both standard and poors and moody investment services consider the equity units to be part equity and part debt. for purposes of computing capitalization ratios, these rating agencies adjust the capitalization structure. standard and poors considers the equity units to be equal amounts of debt and equity for the first three years, with the effect being to increase shareholders equity by the same amount as debt. moody investment services considers 25 percent of the equity units to be debt and 75 percent to be shareholders equity. the following table sets forth the actual capitalization structure at december 31, 2002, the capitalization structure had the common stock and equity units issued under the concurrent offerings been issued on december 31, 2002, and the capitalization structure as it would be adjusted by standard and poors (s&amp;p). the proceeds from the common stock and equity issuances were used to repurchase $300 million of our series a convertible preferred stock from westar and to pay off commercial paper as reflected in the table below. year ended december 31, 2002 actual adjustments pro forma s&amp;p adjustments s&amp;p pro forma ratios notes payable $ 265,500 $ (265,500 ) $ $ $ current maturities of long-term debt 6,334 6,334 6,334 long-term debt, excluding current maturities 1,511,118 402,500 1,913,618 1,913,618 total debt 1,782,952 137,000 1,919,952 1,919,952 54.0 % shareholders equity 1,365,612 (129,464 ) 1,236,148 402,500 1,638,648 46.0 % total capitalization $ 3,148,564 $ 7,536 $ 3,156,100 $ 402,500 $ 3,558,600 100.0 % at the end of year three, s&amp;p presumes the cash received from the issuance of the equity units is used to pay off debt. the following table sets forth our pro forma capitalization structure at year three as it would be adjusted by s&amp;p. year 1 pro forma debt reduction year 3 pro forma ratios notes payable $ $ $ current maturities of long-term debt 6,334 6,334 long-term debt, excluding current maturities 1,913,618 (402,500 ) 1,511,118 total debt 1,919,952 (402,500 ) 1,517,452 48.1 % shareholders equity 1,638,648 1,638,648 51.9 % total capitalization $ 3,558,600 $ (402,500 ) $ 3,156,100 100.0 % the following table sets forth the actual capitalization structure at december 31, 2002, the pro forma capitalization structure had the common stock and equity units issued under the concurrent offerings been issued on december 31, 2002, and the pro forma capitalization structure as it would be adjusted by moody investment services. 46 table of contents year ended december 31, 2002 actual adjustments pro forma moody adjustments moody pro forma ratios notes payable $ 265,500 $ (265,500 ) $ $ $ current maturities of long-term debt 6,334 6,334 6,334 long-term debt, excluding current maturities 1,511,118 402,500 1,913,618 (301,875 ) 1,611,743 total debt 1,782,952 137,000 1,919,952 (301,875 ) 1,618,077 51.3 % shareholders equity 1,365,612 (129,464 ) 1,236,148 301,875 1,538,023 48.7 % total capitalization $ 3,148,564 $ 7,536 $ 3,156,100 $ $ 3,156,100 100.0 % contractual obligations and commercial commitments the following table sets forth our contractual obligations to make future payments under our current debt agreements, operating lease agreements and fixed price contracts. for further discussion of the debt and operating lease agreements, see notes k and m, respectively, of notes to the consolidated financial statements. payments due by period contractual obligations total 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 thereafter (thousands of dollars) long-term debt $ 1,442,037 $ 6,334 $ 6,334 $ 356,334 $ 306,334 $ 6,334 $ 760,367 notes payable 265,500 265,500 operating leases 321,817 39,247 35,409 36,750 49,966 35,965 124,480 storage contracts 53,617 19,948 13,738 8,400 5,314 4,974 1,243 firm transportation contracts 224,993 50,543 43,490 39,038 37,663 31,442 22,817 purchase commitments, rights-of-way and other 15,824 3,589 3,520 3,490 2,440 1,409 1,376 total contractual obligations $ 2,323,788 $ 385,161 $ 102,491 $ 444,012 $ 401,717 $ 80,124 $ 910,283 long-term debt as reported in the consolidated balance sheets includes unamortized debt discount and the mark-to-market effect of interest rate swaps. the table set forth above does not include $402.5 million of long-term debt incurred in connection with our public offering of equity units in january 2003. operating leases and purchase commitments, rights-of-way and other include approximately $0.5 million and $2.2 million for 2008, respectively, of annual commitments, but are not included in the above table beyond 2008 due to the impracticality of calculating the future commitment. purchase commitments exclude commodity purchase contracts. the distribution segment is party to fixed price transportation contracts. however, the costs associated with these contracts are recovered through rates as allowed by the applicable regulatory agency and are excluded from the above table. trading activities forwards, swaps, options, and energy transportation and storage contracts utilized for trading activities are reflected at fair value as assets and liabilities from price risk management activities in the consolidated balance sheets. the amounts include the cost of gas in storage, option premiums and the mark-to-market component (fair value). we utilize third party references for pricing points from nymex and third party over-the-counter brokers to establish the commodity pricing and volatility curves used in our valuation method to establish fair value. we believe the reported transactions from these sources are the most reflective of current market prices. fair values are subject to change based on valuation factors. the following table sets forth the fair value component of the price risk management assets and liabilities, which result from the marketing and trading segment energy trading portfolio. 47 table of contents fair value component of price risk management assets and liabilities (thousands of dollars) net fair value of contracts outstanding at december 31, 2001 $ 59,612 contracts realized or otherwise settled during the period 92,004 fair value of new contracts when entered into during the period (3,683 ) changes in fair values attributable to changes in valuation techniques and assumptions other changes in fair value (45,766 ) net fair value of contracts outstanding at december 31, 2002 $ 102,167 the net fair value of contracts outstanding at december 31, 2002 includes energy trading contracts accounted for under mark-to-market accounting. the net fair value of contracts outstanding includes the effect of settled energy contracts and current period charges resulting primarily from newly originated transactions and the impact of price movements on the fair value of price risk management assets and liabilities attributable to the marketing and trading segment activities. the following table sets forth the marketing and trading segment maturity of energy trading contracts based on heating injection and withdrawal periods from april through march. this maturity schedule is consistent with the marketing and trading segment business strategy. the marketing and trading segment has contracted over 39 bcf of storage with an affiliate, which is excluded from outstanding fair value at december 31, 2002, in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america. fair value of contracts at december 31, 2002 source of fair value (1) matures through march 2003 matures through march 2006 matures through march 2008 matures after march 2008 total fair value (thousands of dollars) prices actively quoted (2) $ 19,396 $ 2,205 $ $ $ 21,601 prices provided by other external sources (3) $ (76,192 ) (39,444 ) (5,808 ) (2,137 ) $ (123,581 ) prices based on models and other valuation models (4) $ 102,290 82,387 17,309 2,161 $ 204,147 total $ 45,494 $ 45,148 $ 11,501 $ 24 $ 102,167 (1) fair value is the mark-to-market component of forwards, swaps, option, and energy transportation and storage contracts, net of applicable reserves utilized for trading activities. these fair values are reflected as a component of assets and liabilities from price risk management activities in the consolidated balance sheets. (2) values are derived from energy market price quotes from national commodity trading exchanges that primarily trade future and option commodity contracts. (3) values are obtained through energy commodity brokers or electronic trading platforms, whose primary service is to match willing buyers and sellers of energy commodities. because of the large energy broker network, energy price information by location is readily available. (4) values primarily include natural gas storage and transportation capacity. values derived in this category utilize market price information from the two other categories as well as other modeling assumptions that include, among others, assumptions for liquidity, credit, time value, volatility and other external attributes. values attributable to storage models are determined on a heating injection/withdrawal model. the following table sets forth the marketing and trading segment financial and commodity risk from fixed-price transactions at december 31, 2002. 48 table of contents investment below investment grade credit grade credit quality (1) quality (thousands of dollars) gas and electric utilities $ 9,354 $ (8,160 ) financial institutions (40,587 ) oil and gas producers (20,044 ) (6,607 ) industrial and commercial 1,386 90 other 4 341 total $ (49,887 ) $ (14,336 ) credit and other reserves net value of fixed-price transactions $ (49,887 ) $ (14,336 ) (1) investment grade is primarily determined using publicly available creditratings along with consideration of cash prepayments, cash managing, standby letters of credit and parent company guarantees. included in investment grade are counterparties with a minimum standard and poors or moody rating of bbb- or baa3, respectively. impact of recently issued accounting pronouncements in july 2001, the fasb issued statement of financial accounting standards no. 143, accounting for asset retirement obligations (statement 143). statement 143 requires entities to record the fair value of a liability for an asset retirement obligation in the period in which it is incurred and a corresponding increase in the carrying amount of the related long-lived asset. statement 143 is effective for fiscal years beginning after june 15, 2002. we are currently assessing the impact of adopting statement 143 and our preliminary assessment indicates that it will not have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations. in april 2002, the fasb issued statement of financial accounting standards no. 145, rescission of fasb statements no. 4, 44, and 64, amendment of fasb statement no. 13 and technical corrections (statement 145). statement 145 rescinds fasb statement no. 4, reporting gains and losses from extinguishment of debt (statement 4), and an amendment to that statement, fasb statement no. 64 extinguishment of debt made to satisfy sinking-fund requirements (statement 64). statement 145 also rescinds fasb statement no. 13, accounting for leases (statement 13) to eliminate the inconsistency between the required accounting for sale-leaseback transactions and the required accounting for certain lease modifications that have economic effects that are similar to sale-leaseback transactions. statement 145 also amends other existing authoritative pronouncements to make various technical corrections, clarify meanings or describe their applicability under changed conditions. the provisions of statement 145 related to the rescission of statement 4 are effective for fiscal years beginning after may 15, 2002. the provisions of statement 145 related to statement 13 are effective prospectively for transactions occurring after may 15, 2002. all other provisions of statement 145 are effective prospectively for financial statements issued on or after may 15, 2002. in july 2002, the fasb issued statement of financial accounting standards no. 146, accounting for restructuring costs (statement 146). under statement 146, a company will record a liability for a cost associated with an exit or disposal activity when that liability is incurred and can be measured at fair value. statement 146 also provides guidance on accounting for specified employee and contract terminations that are part of restructuring activities. statement 146 is effective prospectively for exit or disposal activities initiated after december 31, 2002. in july 2002, the emerging issues task force issued eitf issues no. 02-3, issues involved in accounting for derivative contracts held for trading purposes and contracts involved in energy trading and risk management activities (eitf 02-3). eitf 02-3 provides that all mark-to-market gains and losses on energy trading contracts be presented on a net basis (energy contract sales less energy contract costs) in the income statement without regard to the settlement provisions of the contract. an entity should disclose the gross transaction volumes for those energy trading contracts that are physically settled. we adopted these provisions of eitf 02-3 in the third quarter of 2002. in october 2002, the eitf rescinded eitf 98-10. as a result, energy related contracts that are not accounted for pursuant to statement 133 will no longer be carried at fair value, but rather will be accounted for as executory contracts and accounted for on an accrual basis. as a result of the rescission of this statement, the task force also agreed that energy trading 49 table of contents inventories carried under storage agreements should no longer be carried at fair value but should be carried at the lower of cost or market. the rescission is effective for the fiscal periods beginning after december 31, 2002 and for all existing energy trading contracts and inventory as of october 25, 2002. additionally, the rescission applies immediately to contracts entered into on or after october 25, 2002. changes to the accounting for existing contracts as a result of the rescission of eitf 98-10 will be reported as a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle on january 1, 2003. at this time, we estimate this will result in a cumulative effect loss, net of tax, of approximately $141.0 million. any impact from this change will be non-cash. all recoveries of the estimated value associated with this change in accounting will be recognized in operating income in future periods. the impact of adopting the rescission of eitf 98-10 will be included in the march 31, 2003 financial statements. the following table details the estimated recovery of these values from the rescission in future periods. the estimates are based on prices at january 31, 2003 and are subject to change. estimated future impact of eitf 98-10 rescission on earnings 2008 and 01/01/2003 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 beyond (in millions) physical storage value $ (85.0 ) $ 84.9 $ 0.1 $ 0.2 $ (0.1 ) $ (0.1 ) $ transportation value (56.7 ) 36.8 10.0 5.3 (0.6 ) (5.4 ) 10.6 out-of-market transportation contract reserve (96.2 ) 23.5 19.8 19.4 19.3 13.6 0.6 other 6.9 0.6 0.1 (0.5 ) 0.9 (8.0 ) total $ (231.0 ) $ 145.2 $ 30.5 $ 25.0 $ 18.1 $ 9.0 $ 3.2 in november of 2002, the fasb issued interpretation no. 45, guarantor accounting and disclosure requirements for guarantees, including indirect guarantees of indebtedness of others (fin 45). fin 45 elaborates on the disclosures to be made by a guarantor in its interim and annual financial statements about its obligations under certain guarantees that it has issued. it also clarifies that a guarantor is required to recognize, at the inception of a guarantee, a liability for the fair value of the obligation undertaken in issuing the guarantee. the initial recognition and initial measurement provisions of fin 45 are applicable on a prospective basis to guarantees issued or modified after december 31, 2002. the disclosure requirements in fin 45 are effective for financial statements of interim or annual periods ending after december 15, 2002. we do not expect fin 45 to have a material impact on our financial position or results of operations. refer to the general portion of our liquidity and capital resources section for further discussion of our guarantees. in december 2002, the fasb issued statement of financial accounting standards no. 148, accounting for stock-based compensation transition and disclosure (statement 148). statement 148 provides for alternative methods of transition for a voluntary change to the fair value based method of accounting for stock-based employee compensation. in addition, statement 148 amends the disclosure requirements of statement of financial accounting standards no. 123, accounting for stock-based compensation (statement 123), to require prominent disclosures in both annual and interim financial statements about the method of accounting for stock-based employee compensation and the effect of the method used on reported results. the provisions of statement 148 relating to the alternative methods of transition in the adoption of statement 123 are effective for fiscal years ending after december 15, 2002. the provisions of statement 148 relating to amended disclosure requirements are effective for interim periods beginning after december 15, 2002. we adopted the provisions related to the amended disclosure requirements in the 2002 consolidated financial statements. we adopted the provisions of statements 123 effective january 1, 2003, and will apply these provisions to all employee stock options granted on or after january 1, 2003 in accordance with the transition alternative provided in statement 148. the pro forma effect of applying the provisions to prior years is presented in note a in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. other related party transactions kgs has a shared service agreement with westar, which is the holder of our preferred stock. the shared services include call center backup, meter readings, customer billing operations and customer service. in 2002, kgs made a net payment of approximately $5.0 million to westar related to this shared service agreement. off-balance sheet arrangements we have no off-balance sheet special purpose entities or asset securitization. 50 table of contents uncollectible amount during 2001, the kcc issued an order extending the time period for which gas service disconnection during inclement weather conditions cannot be made. due to the extension of the time period restricting disconnections, delinquent kgs customers were allowed to continue gas service, thus increasing uncollectible amounts. higher gas costs in the 2000/2001 heating season also contributed to the increased uncollectible amounts. kgs and other distribution companies in kansas filed a joint application with the kcc seeking approval to recover the additional uncollectible amounts incurred during the 2000/2001 heating season until reviewed in the next rate case. the kcc approved the deferral allowing the companies to seek recovery of the extraordinary uncollectible account levels experienced in the 2000/2001 winter. kgs filed a rate case in january 2003. no accounting treatment has yet been determined. southwest gas corporation information related to litigation arising out of the termination of our effort to acquire southwest gas corporation is presented in note m in the notes to the consolidated financial statements and in item 3 of part i of this annual report on form 10-k. hutchinson litigation two separate class action lawsuits have been filed against us in connection with the natural gas explosions and eruptions of natural gas geysers that occurred in or near hutchinson, kansas in january 2001. although no assurances can be given, management believes that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. our insurance carrier in these cases is representing us. we are vigorously defending ourselves against all claims. for more information, see legal proceedings. environmental we have 12 manufactured gas sites located in kansas, which may contain potentially harmful materials that are classified as hazardous material. hazardous materials are subject to control or remediation under various environmental laws and regulations. a consent agreement with the kdhe presently governs all future work at these sites. the terms of the consent agreement allow us to investigate these sites and set remediation priorities based upon the results of the investigations and risk analysis. remedial investigation has commenced on four sites. however, a comprehensive study is not complete and the results to date do not provide a sufficient basis for a reasonable estimation of the total liability. the liability accrued is reflective of an estimate of the total cost of remedial investigation and feasibility study. through december 31, 2002, the costs of the investigations and risk analysis related to these manufactured gas sites have been immaterial. the site situations are not common and we have no previous experience with similar remediation efforts. the information currently available estimates the cost of remediation to range from $100,000 to $10 million per site based on a limited comparison of costs incurred by others to remediate comparable sites. as such, the information provides an insufficient basis to reasonably estimate a minimum range of our liability. these estimates do not give effect to potential insurance recoveries, recoveries through rates or from unaffiliated parties. at this time, we are not recovering any environmental amounts in rates. the kcc has permitted others to recover remediation costs through rates. it should be noted that additional information and testing could result in costs significantly below or in excess of the amounts estimated above. to the extent that such remediation costs are not recovered, the costs could be material to our results of operations and cash flows depending on the remediation done and number of years over which the remediation is completed. in january 2001, the yaggy storage facility operating parameters were changed as mandated by the kdhe following natural gas explosions and eruptions of natural gas geysers in or near hutchison, kansas. there are no known long-term environmental effects from the yaggy storage facility; however, we continue to perform tests in cooperation with the kdhe. item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management we are, substantially through our non-utility business segments, exposed to market risk in the normal course of our business operations and to the impact of market fluctuations in the price of natural gas, ngls, crude oil and power prices. market risk refers to the risk of loss in cash flows and future earnings arising from adverse changes in commodity energy prices. our primary exposure arises from fixed price purchase or sale agreements that extend for periods of up to 48 months, gas in storage utilized by the marketing and trading operation, and anticipated sales of natural gas and oil production. to a lesser extent, we are exposed to risk of changing prices or the cost of intervening transportation resulting from purchasing gas at one location and selling it at another (referred to as basis risk). to minimize the risk from market fluctuations in the price of natural gas, ngls and crude oil, we use commodity derivative instruments such as futures contracts, swaps and options to manage market risk of existing or anticipated purchase and sale agreements, existing physical gas in storage, and basis risk. we adhere to policies and procedures that limit our exposure to market risk from open positions and that monitor market risk exposure. kgs uses derivative instruments to hedge the cost of anticipated gas purchases during the winter heating months to protect kgs customers from upward volatility in the market price of natural gas. at december 31, 2002, kgs had derivative 51 table of contents instruments in place to hedge the cost of purchases for 46.5 bcf of gas. this represents all of kgs gas purchase requirements for the winter 2002/2003 heating months based on normal weather conditions. gains or losses associated with the kgs hedges are included in the purchased gas adjustment. for a detail of the marketing and trading segment maturity of energy trading contracts based on heating injection and withdrawal periods from april through march and the related models and assumptions, refer to the liquidity and capital resources section of item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations of this form 10-k. for further discussion of trading activities and models and assumptions used in the trading activities see the critical accounting policies and estimates section of item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. also, see note d of notes to consolidated financial statements. interest rate risk we are subject to the risk of fluctuation in interest rates in the normal course of business. we manage interest rate risk through the use of fixed rate debt, floating rate debt and, at times, interest rate swaps. fixed rate swaps are used to reduce our risk of increased interest costs during periods of rising interest rates. floating rate swaps are used to convert the fixed rates of long-term borrowings into short-term variable rates. at december 31, 2002, the interest rate on 58.1 percent of our debt was fixed, after considering the effect of interest rate swaps. in july 2001, we entered into interest rate swaps on a total of $400 million in fixed rate long-term debt. the interest rate under these swaps resets periodically based on the three-month libor or the six-month libor at the reset date. in october 2001, we entered into an agreement to lock in the interest rates for each reset period under the swap agreements through the first quarter of 2003. in december 2001, we entered into additional interest rate swaps on a total of $200 million in fixed rate long-term debt. in january 2003, the rates were locked through the first quarter of 2004. the swaps resulted in approximately $20.6 million of interest rate savings in 2002 and will result in an estimated $23.0 million in savings during 2003. in december 2002, we recorded a $79.0 million net increase in price risk management assets to recognize at fair value our derivatives that are designated as fair value hedging instruments. long-term debt was increased by approximately $78.3 million to recognize the change in fair value of the related hedged liability. at december 31, 2002 a hypothetical 100 basis point move in the annual interest rate would change our annual interest expense by $4.7 million before taxes. this amount is limited based on the libor locks that we have in place through the first quarter of 2004. if these locks were not in place, a 100 basis point change in the interest rates would affect our annual interest expense by $8.7 million before taxes. this 100 basis point change assumes a parallel shift in the yield curve. if interest rates changed significantly, we would take actions to manage our exposure to the change. since a specific action and the possible effects are uncertain, no change has been assumed. value-at-risk disclosure of market risk we measure entity-wide market risk in our trading, price risk management, and our non-trading portfolios using value-at-risk (var). our var calculations are based on the risk works monte carlo approach, assuming a one-day holding period. we began using the monte carlo approach in the second quarter of 2002. prior to that time, we used the variance-co-variance approach. the quantification of market risk using var provides a consistent measure of risk across diverse energy markets and products with different risk factors in order to set overall risk tolerance, to determine risk targets and set position limits. the use of this methodology requires a number of key assumptions, including the selection of a confidence level and the holding period to liquidation. inputs to the calculation include prices, positions, instrument valuations and the variance-co-variance matrix. historical data is used to estimate our var with more weight given to recent data, which is considered a more relevant predictor of immediate future commodity market movements. we rely on var to determine the potential reduction in the trading and price risk management portfolio values arising from changes in market conditions over a defined period. while management believes that the referenced assumptions and approximations are reasonable, no uniform industry methodology exists for estimating var and different assumptions and approximations could produce materially different var estimates. our var exposure represents an estimate of potential losses that would be recognized for our trading and price risk management portfolio of derivative financial instruments, physical contracts and gas in storage due to adverse market movements over a defined time horizon within a specified confidence level. a one-day time horizon and a 95 percent confidence level were used in our var data. actual future gains and losses will differ from those estimated by the var calculation based on actual fluctuations in commodity prices, operating exposures and timing thereof, and the changes in the company trading and price risk management portfolio of derivative financial instruments and physical contracts. var information should be evaluated in light of this information and the methodology other limitations. 52 table of contents the potential impact on our future earnings, as measured by the var, was $3.2 million and $5.1 million at december 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. the following table details the average, high and low var calculations: years ended december 31, value at risk 2002 2001 (millions of dollars) average $ 5.0 $ 3.6 high $ 17.8 $ 8.7 low $ 1.2 $ 0.7 the variations in the var data are reflective of our marketing and trading growth and market volatility during the year. risk policy and oversight we control the scope of risk management, marketing and trading operations through a comprehensive set of policies and procedures involving senior levels of management. our board of directors affirms the risk limit parameters with our audit committee having oversight responsibilities for the policies. a risk oversight committee, comprised of corporate and business segment officers, oversees all activities related to commodity price, credit and interest rate risk management, marketing and trading activities. the committee also proposes risk metrics including var and position loss limits. we have a corporate risk control organization lead by the vice president of risk control, who is assigned responsibility for establishing and enforcing the policies, procedures and limits and evaluating the risks inherent in proposed transactions. key risk control activities include credit review and approval, credit and performance risk measurement and monitoring, validation of transactions, portfolio valuation, var and other risk metrics. to the extent open commodity positions exist, fluctuating commodity prices can impact our financial results and financial position either favorably or unfavorably. as a result, we cannot predict with precision the impact risk management decisions may have on the business, operating results or financial position. 53 table of contentsrisk factors our investors should consider the following risks that could affect us and our business. although we have tried to discuss key factors, our investors need to be aware that other risks may prove to be important in the future. new risks may emerge at any time, and we cannot predict such risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect our financial performance. investors should carefully consider the following discussion of risks and the other information included or incorporated by reference in this annual report, including forward-looking statements, which are included in item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation. risk factors inherent in our business market volatility and capital availability could adversely affect our business. the capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption. during the fourth quarter of 2008 and continuing into 2009, the volatility and disruption reached unprecedented levels. in many cases, the capital markets have exerted downward pressure on equity values and reduced the credit capacity for certain companies. our ability to grow could be constrained if we do not have regular access to the capital and credit markets. if similar or more severe levels of market disruption and volatility return, our access to capital and credit markets could be disrupted, making growth through acquisitions and development projects difficult or impractical to pursue until such time as markets stabilize. our operating results may be materially adversely affected by unfavorable economic and market conditions. economic conditions worldwide have from time to time contributed to slowdowns in the oil and gas industry, as well as in the specific segments and markets in which we operate, resulting in reduced demand and increased price competition for our products and services. our operating results in one or more geographic regions may also be affected by uncertain or changing economic conditions within that region. volatility in commodity prices may have an impact on many of our customers, which, in turn, could have a negative impact on their ability to meet their obligations to us. if global economic and market conditions (including volatility in commodity markets), or economic conditions in the united states or other key markets, remain uncertain or persist, spread or deteriorate further, we may experience materia l impacts on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. uncertainty in the capital markets may increase the cost of debt and equity capital, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and business. in 2008 and continuing into 2009, economic conditions in the united states experienced a downturn, primarily due to the sub-prime lending crisis, volatile energy prices, inflation concerns, slower economic activity, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, and increased unemployment. these conditions had an adverse impact on the credit markets. although some of these conditions have improved in 2009 and 2010, continued uncertainty about market conditions may have an adverse effect on us resulting from, but not limited to, difficulty in obtaining financing necessary to expand facilities or acquire assets, increased financing cost and increasingly restrictive covenants. our cash flow depends heavily on the earnings and distributions of oneok partners. our partnership interest in oneok partners is one of our largest cash-generating assets. therefore, our cash flow is heavily dependent upon the ability of oneok partners to make distributions to its partners. a significant decline in oneok partners' earnings and/or cash distributions would have a corresponding negative impact on us. for information on the risk factors inherent in the business of oneok partners, see the section below entitled risk factors related to oneok partners' business and item 1a. risk factors in the oneok partners annual report. -18 - table of contents some of our nonregulated businesses have a higher level of risk than our regulated businesses. some of our nonregulated operations, which includes oneok partners' gathering and processing business, most of its natural gas liquids business, and our energy services business, have a higher level of risk than our regulated operations, which include our distribution and oneok partners' natural gas pipelines business and a portion of its natural gas liquids business. we and oneok partners expect to continue investing in natural gas and natural gas liquids projects and other related projects, some or all of which may involve nonregulated businesses or assets. these projects could involve risks associated with operational factors, such as competition and dependence on certain suppliers and customers, and financial, economic and political factors, such as rapid and significant changes in commodity prices, t he cost and availability of capital and counterparty risk, including the inability of a counterparty, customer or supplier to fulfill a contractual obligation. our ldcs have recorded certain assets that may not be recoverable from our customers. accounting principles that govern our ldcs permit certain assets that result from the regulatory process to be recorded on our balance sheet that could not be recorded under gaap for nonregulated entities. we consider factors such as rate orders from regulators, previous rate orders for substantially similar costs, written approval from the regulators and analysis of recoverability from internal and external legal counsel to determine the probability of future recovery of these assets. if we determine future recovery is no longer probable, we would be required to write off the regulatory assets at that time. terrorist attacks aimed at our facilities could adversely affect our business. since the september 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, the united states government has issued warnings that energy assets, specifically the nation's pipeline infrastructure, may be future targets of terrorist organizations. these developments may subject our operations to increased risks. any future terrorist attack that may target our facilities, those of our customers and, in some cases, those of other pipelines, could have a material adverse effect on our business. our businesses are subject to market and credit risks. we are exposed to market and credit risks in all of our operations. to minimize the risk of commodity price fluctuations, we periodically enter into derivative transactions to hedge anticipated purchases and sales of natural gas, ngls, crude oil, fuel requirements and firm transportation commitments. interest-rate swaps are also used to manage interest-rate risk. currency forward contracts are used to mitigate unexpected changes that may occur in anticipated revenue streams of our canadian natural gas sales and purchases driven by currency rate fluctuations. however, financial derivative instrument contracts do not eliminate the risks. specifically, such risks include commodity price changes, market supply shortages, interest rate changes and counterparty default. the impac t of these variables could result in our inability to fulfill contractual obligations, significantly higher energy or fuel costs relative to corresponding sales contracts, or increased interest expense. we are subject to the risk of loss resulting from nonpayment and/or nonperformance by customers of our energy services segment. the customers of our energy services segment are predominantly ldcs, industrial customers, natural gas producers and marketers that may experience deterioration of their financial condition as a result of changing market conditions or financial difficulties that could impact their creditworthiness or ability to pay for our services. although we attempt to obtain adequate security for these risks, if we fail to adequately assess the creditworthiness of existing or future customers, unanticipated deterioration in their creditworthiness and any resulting nonpayment and/or nonperformance could adversely impact results of operations for our energy services segment. in addition, if any of our energy services segment's customers filed for bankruptcy protection, we may not be able to recover amounts owed, which could materially negatively impact the results of operations for our energy services segment. increased competition could have a significant adverse financial impact on us. the natural gas and natural gas liquids industries are expected to remain highly competitive. the demand for natural gas and ngls is primarily a function of commodity prices, including prices for alternative energy sources, customer usage rates, weather, economic conditions and service costs. our ability to compete also depends on a number of other factors, including competition from other pipelines for our existing load, the efficiency, quality and reliability of the services we provide, and competition for throughput for our gathering systems, pipelines, processing plants, fractionators and storage facilities. we cannot predict when we will be subject to changes in legislation or regulation, nor can we predict the impact of these changes on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. although we believe our businesses are positioned to compete effectively in the energy market, there are no assurances that this will be true in the future. -19 - table of contents we may not be able to successfully make additional strategic acquisitions or integrate businesses we acquire into our operations. our ability to successfully make strategic acquisitions and investments will depend on: (i) the extent to which acquisitions and investment opportunities become available; (ii) our success in bidding for the opportunities that do become available; (iii) regulatory approval, if required, of the acquisitions on favorable terms; and (iv) our access to capital, including our ability to use our equity in acquisitions or investments, and the terms upon which we obtain capital. if we are unable to make strategic investments and acquisitions, we may be unable to grow. if we are unable to successfully integrate new businesses into our operations, we could experience increased costs and losses on our investments. acquisitions that appear to be accretive may nevertheless reduce our cash from operations on a per share basis. any acquisition involves potential risks that may include, among other things: mistaken assumptions about volumes, revenues and costs, including potential synergies; an inability to successfully integrate the businesses we acquire; decrease in our liquidity as a result of our using a significant portion of our available cash or borrowing capacity to finance the acquisition; a significant increase in our interest expense or financial leverage if we incur additional debt to finance the acquisition; the assumption of unknown liabilities for which we are not indemnified or for which our indemnity is inadequate; an inability to hire, train or retain qualified personnel to manage and operate the acquired business and assets; limitations on rights to indemnity from the seller; mistaken assumptions about the overall costs of equity or debt; the diversion of management's and employees' attention from other business concerns; unforeseen difficulties operating in new product areas or new geographic areas; increased regulatory burdens; customer or key employee losses at an acquired business; and increased regulatory requirements. if we consummate any future acquisitions, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly, and investors will not have the opportunity to evaluate the economic, financial and other relevant information that we will consider in determining the application of our resources to future acquisitions. any reduction in our credit ratings could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. our long-term senior unsecured debt has been assigned an investment-grade rating by s&amp;p of bbb (stable) and moody's of baa2 (stable). however, we cannot provide assurance that any of our current ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances in the future so warrant. specifically, if s&amp;p or moody's were to downgrade our long-term rating, particularly below investment grade, our borrowing costs would increase, which would adversely affect our financial results, and our potential pool of investors and funding sources could decrease. if s&amp;p or moody's were to downgrade the long-term ratings of oneok partners below investment grad e, oneok partners would, under certain circumstances, be required to offer to repurchase certain of its senior notes. further, if our short-term ratings were to fall below a-2 (capacity to meet its financial commitment on the obligation is satisfactory) or p-2 (strong ability to repay short-term debt obligations), the current ratings assigned by s&amp;p and moody's, respectively, it could significantly limit our access to the commercial paper market. any such downgrade of our long- or short-term ratings could significantly increase our cost of capital and reduce the availability of capital and, thus, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. ratings from credit agencies are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our securities. each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. a downgrade in our credit ratings below investment grade would negatively affect the operations of our energy services segment. if our credit ratings fall below investment grade, ratings triggers and/or adequate assurance clauses in many of our financial and wholesale physical contracts would be in effect. a ratings trigger or adequate assurance clause gives a counterparty the right to suspend or terminate the agreement unless margin thresholds are met. margin requirements related to the trading activities of our energy services segment may also increase as a result of market volatility without regard to our credit rating. the additional increase in capital required to support our energy services segment would materially negatively impact our ability to compete, as well as our ability to actively manage the ri sk associated with existing storage and transportation contracts. -20 - table of contents employees within our marketing and trading operations may violate our risk management policies. we have developed and implemented a comprehensive set of policies and procedures that involve both our senior management and the audit committee of our board of directors to assist us in managing risks associated with, among other things, the trading activities of our energy services segment. however, if our employees fail to adhere to these mandatory policies and procedures, we may be exposed to greater risk than we had anticipated. our indebtedness could impair our financial condition and our ability to fulfill our other obligations. as of december 31, 2009, we had total indebtedness for borrowed money of approximately $1.9 billion, which excludes the debt of oneok partners. our indebtedness could have significant consequences. for example, it could: make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our notes and our other indebtedness due to the increased debt-service obligations, which could in turn result in an event of default on such other indebtedness or our notes; impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general business purposes; diminish our ability to withstand a downturn in our business or the economy; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to debt-service payments, reducing the availability of cash for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, or general corporate purposes; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared with our competitors that have proportionately less debt. we are not prohibited under the indentures governing our senior notes from incurring additional indebtedness, but our debt agreements do subject us to certain operational limitations summarized in the next paragraph. if we incur significant additional indebtedness, it could worsen the negative consequences mentioned above and could adversely affect our ability to repay our other indebtedness. our revolving debt agreements with banks contain provisions that restrict our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to expand or pursue our business activities. for example, certain of these agreements contain provisions that, among other things, limit our ability to make loans or investments, make material changes to the nature of our business, merge, consolidate or engage in asset sales, grant liens, or make negative pledges. certain agreements also require us to maintain certain financial ratios, which limit the amount of additional indebtedness we can incur, as described in the liquidity and capital resources section of item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation. these restrictions could result in higher costs of b orrowing and impair our ability to generate additional cash. future financing agreements we may enter into may contain similar or more restrictive covenants. if we are unable to meet our debt-service obligations, we could be forced to restructure or refinance our indebtedness, seek additional equity capital or sell assets. we may be unable to obtain financing or sell assets on satisfactory terms, or at all. we are subject to comprehensive energy regulation by governmental agencies, and the recovery of our costs is dependent on regulatory action. we are subject to comprehensive regulation by several federal, state and municipal utility regulatory agencies, which significantly influences our operating environment and our ability to recover our costs from utility customers. the utility regulatory authorities in oklahoma, kansas and texas regulate many aspects of our utility operations, including customer service and the rates that we can charge customers. federal, state and local agencies also have jurisdiction over many of our other activities, including regulation by the ferc of our storage and interstate pipeline assets. the profitability of our regulated operations is dependent on our ability to pass costs related to providing energy and other commodities through to our customers by filing synchronized rate cases. the regulatory enviro nment applicable to our regulated businesses could impair our ability to recover costs historically absorbed by our customers. we are unable to predict the impact that the future regulatory activities of these agencies will have on our operating results. changes in regulations or the imposition of additional regulations could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. further, the results of our ldcs' operations could be negatively impacted if the cost recovery mechanisms authorized by our rate cases do not function as anticipated. additionally, the regulatory authorities of each state in which we operate allow ldc's to obtain weather protection. if the weather protection clause is disallowed, it would affect our business. -21 - table of contents the volatility of natural gas prices may negatively impact ldc customers' perception of natural gas. natural gas costs are passed through to the customers of our ldcs based on the actual cost of the natural gas purchased by the particular ldc. substantial fluctuations in natural gas prices can occur from year to year. sustained periods of high natural gas prices or of pronounced natural gas price volatility may negatively impact our ldc customers' perception of natural gas, which could lead to customers selecting other energy alternatives, such as electricity, and to difficulties in the rate-making process. additionally, high natural gas prices may cause customers to conserve more and may also adversely impact our accounts receivable collections, resulting in higher bad-debt expense. our business is subject to increased regulatory oversight and potential penalties. the natural gas industry historically has been heavily regulated; therefore, there is no assurance that a more stringent regulatory approach will not be pursued by the ferc and the united states congress, especially in light of previous market power abuse by certain companies engaged in interstate commerce. in response to this issue, the united states congress, in the energy policy act of 2005 (epact), developed requirements intended to ensure that the energy market is not impacted by the exercise of market power or manipulative conduct. the ferc then adopted the market manipulation rules to implement the authority granted under epact. these rules are intended to prohibit fraud and manipulation and are subject to broad interpretation. epact also gave the ferc increased penalty authority for viol ations of these rules, as well as other ferc rules. demand for services of our distribution and energy services segments and for certain of oneok partners' products is highly weather sensitive and seasonal. the demand for natural gas and for certain of oneok partners' products, such as propane, is weather sensitive and seasonal, with a significant portion of revenues derived from sales to retail markets for heating during the winter months. weather conditions directly influence the volume of, among other things, natural gas and propane delivered to customers. deviations in weather from normal levels and the seasonal nature of certain of our segments' business can create large variations in earnings and short-term cash requirements. proposed kcc ring-fencing regulations may have a significant impact on our natural gas distribution business in kansas. the kcc is considering new regulations, commonly known as ring-fencing, that would require us to operate our kansas gas service division in a separate, financially independent entity. this new entity would not be permitted to rely upon the overall credit of oneok to obtain financing for its operations, potentially increasing the cost of its financing. in addition, this new entity may be required to register with the sec as a reporting entity, repurchase and reissue public debt (including the payment of prepayment premiums), and negotiate separate credit facilities, all at substantial cost. if these additional costs, along with the other costs and expenses associated with the reorganization, are not recoverable from kansas gas service customers, it would lower the earnings of our distribution segment. adoption by the kcc of certain of these proposed regulations may require prior authorization from the kansas legislature. we are subject to environmental regulations that could be difficult and costly to comply with. we are subject to multiple environmental laws and regulations affecting many aspects of present and future operations, including air emissions, water quality, wastewater discharges, solid and hazardous wastes and hazardous material and substance management. these laws and regulations generally require us to obtain and comply with a wide variety of environmental registrations, licenses, permits, inspections and other approvals. failure to comply with these laws, regulations, permits and licenses may expose us to fines, penalties and/or interruptions in our operations that could be material to the results of operations. if a leak or spill of hazardous substance occurs from our lines or facilities in the process of transporting natural gas or ngls or at any facility that we own, operate or otherwise use, we c ould be held jointly and severally liable for all resulting liabilities, including investigation and clean-up costs, which could materially affect our results of operations and cash flows. in addition, emission controls required under the federal clean air act and other similar federal and state laws could require unexpected capital expenditures at our facilities. in addition, the epa has issued a proposed rule on air-quality standards, national emission standards for hazardous air pollutants for reciprocating internal combustion engines, also known as rice neshap, scheduled to be adopted in early 2013. the proposed rule will require capital expenditures over the next three years for the purchase and installation of new emissions-control equipment. we do not expect these expenditures to have a material impact on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. we cannot assure that existing environmental regulations will not be revis ed or that new regulations will not be adopted or become applicable to us. revised or additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, particularly if those costs are not fully recoverable from customers, could have a material adverse -22 - table of contents effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. for further discussion on this topic, see note l of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this annual report. we are subject to risks that could limit our access to capital, thereby increasing our costs and adversely affecting our results of operations. we have grown rapidly in the last several years as a result of acquisitions. further acquisitions may require additional capital. if we are not able to access capital at competitive rates, our strategy of enhancing the earnings potential of our existing assets, including through acquisitions of complementary assets or businesses, will be adversely affected. a number of factors could adversely affect our ability to access capital, including: (i) general economic conditions; (ii) capital market conditions; (iii) market prices for natural gas, ngls and other hydrocarbons; (iv) the overall health of the energy and related industries; (v) our ability to maintain our investment-grade credit ratings; and (vi) our capital structure. much of our business is capital intensive , and achievement of our long-term growth targets is dependent, at least in part, upon our ability to access capital at rates and on terms we determine to be attractive. if our ability to access capital becomes significantly constrained, our interest costs will likely increase and our financial condition and future results of operations could be significantly harmed. energy efficiency and technological advances may affect the demand for natural gas and adversely affect our operating results. the national trend toward increased conservation and technological advances, including installation of improved insulation and the development of more efficient furnaces and other heating devices, may decrease the demand for natural gas by residential customers. more strict conservation measures in the future or technological advances in heating, conservation, energy generation or other devices could adversely affect our operations. the cost of providing pension and postretirement health care benefits to eligible employees and qualified retirees is subject to changes in pension fund values and changing demographics and may increase. we have a defined benefit pension plan for certain employees and postretirement welfare plans that provide postretirement medical and life insurance benefits to certain employees who retire with at least five years of service. the cost of providing these benefits to eligible current and former employees is subject to changes in the market value of our pension and postretirement benefit plan assets, changing demographics, including longer life expectancy of plan participants and their beneficiaries and changes in health care costs. for further discussion of our defined benefit pension plan, see note k of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this annual report. any sustained declines in equity markets and reductions in bond yields may have a material adverse effect on the value of our pension and postretirement benefit plan assets. in these circumstances, additional cash contributions to our pension plans may be required. our business could be adversely affected by strikes or work stoppages by our unionized employees. as of january 31, 2010, 681of our 4,758 employees were represented by collective bargaining units under collective bargaining agreements. we are involved periodically in discussions with collective bargaining units representing some of our employees to negotiate or renegotiate labor agreements. we cannot predict the results of these negotiations, including whether any failure to reach new agreements will have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations or whether we will be able to reach any agreement with the collective bargaining units. any failure to reach agreement on new labor contracts might result in a work stoppage. any future work stoppage could, depending on the operations and the length of the work stoppage, have a material adverse effect on our bu siness, financial condition and results of certain operations. we may face significant costs to comply with the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions. greenhouse gas emissions originate primarily from combustion engine exhaust, heater exhaust and fugitive methane gas emissions. various federal and state legislative proposals have been introduced to regulate the emission of greenhouse gases, particularly carbon dioxide and methane, and the united states supreme court has ruled that carbon dioxide is a pollutant subject to regulation by the epa. in addition, there have been international efforts seeking legally binding reductions in emissions of greenhouse gases. -23 - table of contents we believe it is likely that future governmental legislation and/or regulation may require us either to limit greenhouse gas emissions from our operations or to purchase allowances for such emissions that are actually attributable to our distribution customers or attributable to ngl customers of oneok partners. however, we cannot predict precisely what form these future regulations will take, the stringency of the regulations, or when they will become effective. several bills have been introduced in the united states congress that would require carbon dioxide emission reductions. previously considered proposals have included, among other things, limitations on the amount of greenhouse gases that can be emitted (so called caps ) together with systems of emissions allowances. this sys tem could require us to reduce emissions, even though the technology is not currently available for efficient reduction, or to purchase allowances for such emissions. emissions also could be taxed independently of limits. in addition to activities on the federal level, state and regional initiatives could also lead to the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions sooner and/or independent of federal regulation. these regulations could be more stringent than any federal legislation that is adopted. future legislation and/or regulation designed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions could make some of our activities uneconomic to maintain or operate. further, we may not be able to pass on the higher costs to our customers or recover all costs related to complying with greenhouse gas regulatory requirements. our future results of operations, cash flows or financial condition could be adversely affected if such costs are not recovered through regulated rates or otherwise passed on to our customers. we continue to monitor legislative and regulatory developments in this area. although the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions may have a material impact on our operations and rates, we believe it is premature to attempt to quantify the potential costs of the impacts. we do not fully hedge against commodity price changes, time differentials or locational differentials. this could result in decreased revenues and increased costs, thereby resulting in lower margins and adversely affecting our results of operations. certain of our nonregulated businesses are exposed to market risk and the impact of market price fluctuations of natural gas, ngls and crude oil. market risk refers to the risk of loss of cash flows and future earnings arising from adverse changes in commodity prices. our energy services segment's primary exposures arise from seasonal and locational price differentials and our ability to execute hedges. our oneok partners segment's primary exposures arise from commodity prices with respect to processing agreements and the differentials between ngl and natural gas prices and their impact on our natural gas and ngl transportation, fractionation and exchange throughputs; the differentials between the individual ngl products; differentials between ngl prices at different locations and the seasonal differentials impacting the volume of natural gas and ngls stored. our oneok partners and energy services segments are also exposed to the risk of changing prices or the cost of transportation resulting from purchasing natural gas or ngls at one location and selling it at another (referred to as basis risk). to minimize the risk from market price fluctuations of natural gas, ngls and crude oil, we use physical forward transactions and commodity derivative instruments such as futures contracts, swaps and options to manage market risk of existing or anticipated purchases and sales of natural gas, ngls and crude oil. we adhere to policies and procedures that monitor our exposure to market risk from open positions. however, we do not fully hedge against commodity price changes, and therefore, we retain some exposure to market risk. accordingly, any adverse changes to commodity prices could result in decreased revenue and/or increased costs. our distribution segment uses storage to minimize the volatility of natural gas costs for our customers by storing natural gas in periods of low demand for consumption in peak demand periods. in addition, various natural gas supply contracts allow us the option to convert index-based purchases to fixed prices. also, we use derivative instruments to hedge the cost of anticipated natural gas purchases during the winter heating months to protect customers from upward volatility in the market price of natural gas. federal, state and local jurisdictions may challenge our tax return positions. the positions taken in our federal and state tax return filings require significant judgments, use of estimates and the interpretation and application of complex tax laws. significant judgment is also required in assessing the timing and amounts of deductible and taxable items. despite management's belief that our tax return positions are fully supportable, certain positions may be successfully challenged by federal, state and local jurisdictions. -24 - table of contents although we control oneok partners, we may have conflicts of interest with oneok partners which could subject us to claims that we have breached our fiduciary duty to oneok partners and its unitholders. we are the sole general partner and owned 45.1 percent of oneok partners as of december 31, 2009. conflicts of interest may arise between us and oneok partners and its unitholders. in resolving these conflicts, we may favor our own interests and the interests of our affiliates over the interests of oneok partners and its unitholders as long as the resolution does not conflict with the oneok partners' partnership agreement or our fiduciary duties to oneok partners and its unitholders. we are subject to physical and financial risks associated with climate change. there is a growing belief that emissions of greenhouse gases may be linked to global climate change. climate change creates physical and financial risk. our customers' energy needs vary with weather conditions, primarily temperature and humidity. for residential customers, heating and cooling represent their largest energy use. to the extent weather conditions are affected by climate change, customers' energy use could increase or decrease depending on the duration and magnitude of any changes. increased energy use due to weather changes may require us to invest in more pipeline and other infrastructure to serve increased demand. a decrease in energy use due to weather changes may affect our financial condition, through decreased revenues. extreme wea ther conditions in general require more system backup, adding to costs, and can contribute to increased system stresses, including service interruptions. weather conditions outside of our operating territory could also have an impact on our revenues. severe weather impacts our operating territories primarily through hurricanes, thunderstorms, tornadoes and snow or ice storms. to the extent the frequency of extreme weather events increases, this could increase our cost of providing service. we may not be able to pass on the higher costs to our customers or recover all the costs related to mitigating these physical risks. to the extent financial markets view climate change and emissions of greenhouse gases as a financial risk, this could negatively affect our ability to access capital markets or cause us to receive less favorable terms and conditions in future financings. our business could be affected by the potential for lawsuits against green house gas emitters, based on links drawn between greenhouse gas emissions and climate change. risk factors related to oneok partners' business the volatility of natural gas, crude oil and ngl prices could adversely affect oneok partners' cash flow. a significant portion of oneok partners' revenues are derived from the sale of commodities that are received as payment for gathering and processing services, for the transportation and storage of natural gas, and for the sale of purity ngl products in oneok partners' natural gas liquids business. commodity prices have been volatile and are likely to continue to be so in the future. the prices oneok partners receives for its commodities are subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors beyond oneok partners' control, including the following: overall domestic and global economic conditions; relatively minor changes in the supply of, and demand for, domestic and foreign energy; market uncertainty; the availability and cost of transportation capacity; the level of consumer product demand; geopolitical conditions impacting supply and demand for natural gas and crude oil; weather conditions; domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; the price and availability of alternative fuels; speculation in the commodity futures markets; overall domestic and global economic conditions; the price of natural gas, crude oil, ngl and liquefied natural gas imports; and the effect of worldwide energy conservation measures. these external factors and the volatile nature of the energy markets make it difficult to reliably estimate future prices of commodities and the impact commodity price fluctuations have on our customers and their need for our services. as commodity prices decline, oneok partners is paid less for its commodities, thereby reducing its cash flow. in addition, production could also decline. -25 - table of contents oneok partners' use of financial instruments to hedge market risk may result in reduced income. oneok partners utilizes financial instruments to mitigate its exposure to interest rate and commodity price fluctuations. hedging instruments that are used to reduce its exposure to interest rate fluctuations could expose it to risk of financial loss where it has contracted for variable-rate swap instruments to hedge fixed-rate instruments and the variable rate exceeds the fixed rate. in addition, these hedging arrangements may limit the benefit oneok partners would otherwise receive if it has contracted for fixed-rate swap agreements to hedge variable-rate instruments and the variable rate falls below the fixed rate. hedging arrangements that are used to reduce oneok partners' exposure to commodity price fluctuations may limit the benefit oneok partners would otherwise receive if market prices for n atural gas, crude oil and ngls exceed the stated price in the hedge instrument for these commodities. oneok partners' inability to develop and execute growth projects and acquire new assets could result in reduced cash distributions to its unitholders and to oneok. oneok partners' primary business objectives are to generate cash flow sufficient to pay quarterly cash distributions to unitholders and to increase quarterly cash distributions over time. oneok partners' ability to maintain and grow its distributions to unitholders, including oneok, depends on the growth of its existing businesses and strategic acquisitions. accordingly, if oneok partners is unable to implement business development opportunities and finance such activities on economically acceptable terms, its future growth will be limited, which could adversely impact its and our results of operations and cash flows. growing oneok partners' business by constructing new pipelines and plants or making modifications to its existing facilities subjects oneok partners to construction risks and risks that adequate natural gas or ngl supplies will not be available upon completion of the facilities. one of the ways oneok partners intends to grow its business is through the construction of new pipelines and new gathering, processing, storage and fractionation facilities and through modifications to oneok partners' existing pipelines and existing gathering, processing, storage and fractionation facilities. the construction and modification of pipelines and gathering, processing, storage and fractionation facilities may require significant capital expenditures, which may exceed oneok partners' estimates, and involves numerous regulatory, environmental, political and legal uncertainties. construction projects in oneok partners' industry may increase demand for labor, materials and rights of way, which, may, in turn, impact oneok partners' costs and schedule. if oneok partners under takes these projects, it may not be able to complete them on schedule or at the budgeted cost. additionally, oneok partners' revenues may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project. for instance, if oneok partners builds a new pipeline, the construction will occur over an extended period of time, and oneok partners will not receive any material increases in revenues until after completion of the project. oneok partners may have only limited natural gas or ngl supplies committed to these facilities prior to their construction. additionally, oneok partners may construct facilities to capture anticipated future growth in production in a region in which anticipated production growth does not materialize. oneok partners may also rely on estimates of proved reserves in oneok partners' decision to construct new pipelines and facilities, which may prove to be inaccurate because there are numerous uncertainties inhe rent in estimating quantities of proved reserves. as a result, new facilities may not be able to attract enough natural gas or ngls to achieve oneok partners' expected investment return, which could materially adversely affect oneok partners' results of operations and financial condition. oneok partners does not own all of the land on which its pipelines and facilities are located, and it leases certain facilities and equipment, which could disrupt its operations. oneok partners does not own all of the land on which certain of its pipelines and facilities are located, and is, therefore, subject to the risk of increased costs to maintain necessary land use. oneok partners obtains the rights to construct and operate certain of its pipelines and related facilities on land owned by third parties and governmental agencies for a specific period of time. oneok partners' loss of these rights, through its inability to renew right-of-way contracts on acceptable terms or increased costs to renew such rights, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. additionally, certain gas processing or other facilities (or parts thereof) used by oneok partners are leased from third parties for specific periods. oneok partners' inability to renew equipment leases or otherwise maintain the right to utilize such facilities and equipment on acceptable terms, or the increased costs to maintain such rights, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. -26 - table of contents oneok partners' operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions, which could materially adversely affect its business and for which oneok partners may not be adequately insured. oneok partners' operations are subject to all of the risks and hazards typically associated with the operation of natural gas and natural gas liquids gathering and transportation pipelines, storage facilities and processing and fractionation plants. operating risks include, but are not limited to, leaks, pipeline ruptures, the breakdown or failure of equipment or processes, and the performance of pipeline facilities below expected levels of capacity and efficiency. other operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions include adverse weather conditions, accidents, the collision of equipment with oneok partners' pipeline facilities (for example, this may occur if a third party were to perform excavation or construction work near oneok partners' facilities) and catastrophic events such as explosions, fires, hu rricanes, earthquakes, floods or other similar events beyond oneok partners' control. it is also possible that oneok partners' infrastructure facilities could be direct targets or indirect casualties of an act of terrorism. a casualty occurrence might result in injury or loss of life, extensive property damage or environmental damage. liabilities incurred and interruptions to the operation of oneok partners' pipeline caused by such an event could reduce revenues generated by oneok partners and increase expenses, thereby impairing oneok partners' ability to meet its obligations. insurance proceeds may not be adequate to cover all liabilities or expenses incurred or revenues lost, and oneok partners is not fully insured against all risks inherent to oneok partners' business. as a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain insurance policies can increase substantially, and in some instances, certain insurance may become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. consequently, oneok partners may not be able to renew existing insurance policies or procure other desirable insurance on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. if oneok partners was to incur a significant liability for which oneok partners was not fully insured, it could have a material adverse effect on oneok partners' financial position and results of operations. further, the proceeds of any such insurance may not be paid in a timely manner and may be insufficient if such an event were to occur. a shortage of skilled labor may make it difficult for oneok partners to maintain labor productivity and competitive costs, which could affect operations and cash flows available for distribution. oneok partners' operations require skilled and experienced laborers with proficiency in multiple tasks. in recent years, a shortage of workers trained in various skills associated with the midstream energy business has caused oneok partners to conduct certain operations without full staff, thus hiring outside resources, which decreases its productivity and increases its costs. this shortage of trained workers is the result of experienced workers reaching retirement age, combined with the difficulty of attracting new laborers to the midstream energy industry. this shortage of skilled labor could continue over an extended period. if the shortage of experienced labor continues or worsens, it could have an adverse impact on oneok partners' labor productivity and costs and oneok partners& #8217; ability to expand production in the event there is an increase in the demand for oneok partners' products and services, which could adversely affect its operations and cash flows available for distribution to unitholders. if the level of drilling and production in the mid-continent, rocky mountain, texas and gulf coast regions substantially declines near its assets, oneok partners' volumes and revenue could decline. oneok partners' ability to maintain or expand its businesses depends largely on the level of drilling and production by third parties in the mid-continent, rocky mountain, texas and gulf coast regions. drilling and production are impacted by factors beyond oneok partners' control, including: demand and prices for natural gas, ngls and crude oil; producers' finding and developing costs of reserves; producers' desire and ability to obtain necessary permits in a timely and economic manner; natural gas field characteristics and production performance; surface access and infrastructure issues; and capacity constraints on natural gas, crude oil and natural gas liquids pipelines from the producing areas and oneok partners' facilities. in addition, drilling and production may be impacted by environmental regulations governing water discharge. if the level of drilling and production in any of these regions substantially declines, oneok partners' volumes and revenue could be materially reduced. -27 - table of contents if production from the western canada sedimentary basin remains flat or declines and demand for natural gas from the western canada sedimentary basin is greater in market areas other than the midwestern united states, demand for oneok partners' interstate gas transportation services could significantly decrease. oneok partners depends on natural gas supply from the western canada sedimentary basin for some of oneok partners' interstate pipelines, primarily oneok partners' investment in northern border pipeline, that transport canadian natural gas from the western canada sedimentary basin to the midwestern u.s. market area. if demand for natural gas increases in canada or other markets not served by oneok partners' interstate pipelines and/or production remains flat or declines, demand for transportation service on oneok partners' interstate natural gas pipelines could decrease significantly, which could adversely impact oneok partners' results of operations and cash flows available for distributions. pipeline integrity programs and repairs may impose significant costs and liabilities. pursuant to a united states department of transportation rule, pipeline operators were required to develop integrity management programs for intrastate and interstate natural gas and natural gas liquids pipelines located near high consequence areas, where a leak or rupture could do the most harm. the rule also requires operators to perform ongoing assessments of pipeline integrity; identify and characterize applicable threats to pipeline segments that could impact a high consequence area; improve data collection, integration and analysis; repair and remediate the pipeline as necessary; and implement preventive and mitigating actions. the results of these testing programs could cause oneok partners to incur significant capital and operating expenditures to make repairs or take remediation, preventive or mitigating act ions that are determined to be necessary. oneok partners' regulated pipelines' transportation rates are subject to review and possible adjustment by federal and state regulators. oneok partners' regulated pipelines are subject to extensive regulation by the ferc and state regulatory agencies, which regulate most aspects of oneok partners' pipeline business, including oneok partners' transportation rates. under the natural gas act, which is applicable to interstate natural gas pipelines, and the interstate commerce act, which is applicable to crude oil and natural gas liquids pipelines, interstate transportation rates must be just and reasonable and not unduly discriminatory. action by the ferc or a state regulatory agency could adversely affect oneok partners' pipeline business' ability to establish or charge rates that would cover future increases in their costs, or even to continue to collect rates that cover current costs, including a reasonable return. oneok partners cannot assure unitholders that its pipeline systems will be able to recover all of its costs through existing or future rates. oneok partners' regulated pipeline companies have recorded certain assets that may not be recoverable from its customers. accounting policies for ferc-regulated companies permit certain assets that result from the regulated ratemaking process to be recorded on oneok partners balance sheet that could not be recorded under gaap for nonregulated entities. oneok partners considers factors such as regulatory changes and the impact of competition to determine the probability of future recovery of these assets. if oneok partners determines future recovery is no longer probable, oneok partners would be required to write off the regulatory assets at that time. oneok partners' operations are subject to federal and state laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, which may expose it to significant costs and liabilities. the risk of incurring substantial environmental costs and liabilities is inherent in oneok partners' business. oneok partners' operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into, or otherwise relating to the protection of, the environment. examples of these laws include: the clean air act and analogous state laws that impose obligations related to air emissions; the clean water act and analogous state laws that regulate discharge of waste water from oneok partners' facilities to state and federal waters; the federal cercla and analogous state laws that regulate the cleanup of hazardous substances that may have been released at properties currently or previously owned or operated by oneok partners or locations to which oneok partners has sent waste for disposal; the federal resource conservation and recovery act and analogous state laws that impose requirements for the handling and discharge of solid and hazardous waste from oneok partners' facilities; and the epa has issued a proposed rule on air quality standards, known as rice neshap, scheduled to be adopted in early 2013. -28 - table of contents various governmental authorities, including the epa, have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them. violators are subject to administrative, civil and criminal penalties, including civil fines, injunctions or both. joint and several, strict liability may be incurred without regard to fault under the cercla, resource conservation and recovery act and analogous state laws for the remediation of contaminated areas. there is an inherent risk of incurring environmental costs and liabilities in oneok partners' business due to its handling of the products it gathers, transports, processes and stores, air emissions related to its operations, historical industry operations and waste disposal practices, some of which may be material. private parties, including the owners of properties through which oneok partners' pipeline systems pass, may have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as to seek damages for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage arising from oneok partners' operations. some sites oneok partners operates are located near current or former third-party hydrocarbon storage and processing operations, and there is a risk that contamination has migrated from those sites to oneok partners' sites. in addition, increasingly strict laws, regulations and enforcement policies could significantly increase oneok partners' compliance costs and the cost of any remediation that may become necessary, some of which may be material. additional information is included under item 1, business under environmental and safety matters and in note l of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this annual report. oneok partners' insurance may not cover all environmental risks and costs or may not provide sufficient coverage in the event an environmental claim is made against oneok partners. oneok partners' business may be materially adversely affected by increased costs due to stricter pollution-control requirements or liabilities resulting from non-compliance with required operating or other regulatory permits. new environmental regulations might also materially adversely affect oneok partners' products and activities, and federal and state agencies could impose additional safety requirements, all of which could materially affect oneok partners' profitability. in the competition for customers, oneok partners may have significant levels of uncontracted or discounted transportation and storage capacity on its natural gas and natural gas liquids pipelines, processing, fractionation and storage assets. oneok partners' natural gas and natural gas liquids pipelines, processing, fractionation and storage assets compete with other pipelines, processing, fractionation and storage facilities for natural gas and ngl supplies delivered to the markets it serves. as a result of competition, at any given time oneok partners may have significant levels of uncontracted or discounted capacity on its pipelines, processing, fractionation and in its storage assets, which could have a material adverse impact on oneok partners' results of operations. oneok partners is exposed to the credit risk of its customers or counterparties, and its credit risk management may not be adequate to protect against such risk. oneok partners is subject to the risk of loss resulting from nonpayment and/or nonperformance by oneok partners' customers or counterparties. oneok partners' customers or counterparties may experience rapid deterioration of their financial condition as a result of changing market conditions or financial difficulties that could impact their creditworthiness or ability to pay oneok partners for its services. oneok partners assesses the creditworthiness of its customers or counterparties and obtains collateral as it deems appropriate. if oneok partners fails to adequately assess the creditworthiness of existing or future customers or counterparties, unanticipated deterioration in their creditworthiness and any resulting nonpayment and/or nonperformance could adversely impact oneok partners' results of operations. in addition, if any of oneok partners' customers or counterparties files for bankruptcy protection, this could have a material negative impact on oneok partners' results of operations. any reduction in oneok partners' credit ratings could materially and adversely affect its business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. oneok partners' senior unsecured long-term debt has been assigned an investment-grade rating by moody's of baa2 (stable) and by s&amp;p of bbb (stable). however, we cannot provide assurance that any of its current ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances in the future so warrant. specifically, if moody's or s&amp;p were to downgrade oneok partners' long-term debt rating, particularly below investment grade, its borrowing costs would increase, which would adversely affect its financial results, and its potential pool of investors and funding sources could decrease. ratings from credit agencies are not recommendations to buy, se ll or hold oneok partners' securities. each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. -29 - table of contents a downgrade of oneok partners' credit rating may require oneok partners to offer to repurchase certain of its senior notes or may impair its ability to access capital. oneok partners could be required to offer to repurchase certain of its senior notes due 2010 and 2011 at par value, plus any accrued and unpaid interest, if moody's or s&amp;p rates those senior notes below investment grade (baa3 for moody's and bbb- for s&amp;p) and the investment-grade rating is not reinstated within a period of 40 days; however, once the $250 million 2010 senior notes have been retired, whether by maturity, redemption or otherwise, oneok partners will no longer have any obligation to offer to repurchase the $225 million 2011 senior notes in the event its credit rating falls below investment grade. further, the indenture governing oneok partners' senior notes due 2010 and 2011 include an event of default upon acceleration of other indebtedness of $25 million or more, and the indentures gover ning oneok partners' senior notes due 2012, 2016, 2019, 2036 and 2037 include an event of default upon the acceleration of other indebtedness of $100 million or more that would be triggered by such an offer to repurchase. such an event of default would entitle the trustee or the holders of 25 percent in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding senior notes due 2010, 2011, 2012, 2016, 2019, 2036 and 2037 to declare those notes immediately due and payable in full. oneok partners may not have sufficient cash on hand to repurchase and repay any accelerated senior notes, which may cause oneok partners to borrow money under its credit facilities or seek alternative financing sources to finance the repurchases and repayment. oneok partners could also face difficulties accessing capital or its borrowing costs could increase, impacting its ability to obtain financing for acquisitions or capital expenditures, to refinance indebtedness and to fulfill its debt obligations. oneok partners has adopted certain valuation methodologies that may result in a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between the general partner and the unitholders. the irs may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of its limited partner units. when oneok partners issues additional units or engages in certain other transactions, oneok partners determines the fair market value of its assets and allocates any unrealized gain or loss attributable to its assets to the capital accounts of its unitholders and its general partner. oneok partners' methodology may be viewed as understating the value of its assets. in that case, there may be a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between certain unitholders and the general partner, which may be unfavorable to such unitholders. moreover, under oneok partners' current valuation methods, subsequent purchasers of common units may have a greater portion of their internal revenue code section 743(b) adjustment allocated to oneok partners' tangible assets and a lesser portion allocated to o neok partners' intangible assets. the irs may challenge oneok partners' valuation methods or oneok partners' allocation of the section 743(b) adjustment attributable to oneok partners' tangible and intangible assets, and allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction between the general partner and certain of oneok partners' unitholders. a successful irs challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to oneok partners' unitholders. it also could affect the amount of gain from oneok partners unitholders' sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to oneok partners unitholders' tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions. oneok partners' treatment of a purchaser of common units as having the same tax benefits as the seller could be challenged, resulting in a reduction in value of the common units. because oneok partners cannot match transferors and transferees of common units, oneok partners is required to maintain the uniformity of the economic and tax characteristics of these units in the hands of the purchasers and sellers of these units. oneok partners does so by adopting certain depreciation conventions that do not conform to all aspects of the united states treasury regulations. an irs challenge to these conventions could adversely affect the tax benefits to a unitholder of ownership of the common units and could have a negative impact on their value or result in audit adjustments to oneok partners unitholders' tax returns. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 62-65risk factors our investors should consider the following risks that could affect us and our business. although we have tried to discuss key factors, our investors need to be aware that other risks may prove to be important in the future. new risks may emerge at any time, and we cannot predict such risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect our financial performance. investors should carefully consider the following discussion of risks and the other information included or incorporated by reference in this annual report, including forward-looking statements, which are included in item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. risk factors inherent in our business market volatility and capital availability could adversely affect our business. the capital and credit markets have experienced volatility and disruption. in many cases, the capital markets have exerted downward pressure on equity values and reduced the credit capacity for certain companies. our ability to grow could be constrained if we do not have regular access to the capital and credit markets. similar or more severe levels of market disruption and volatility may have an adverse affect on us resulting from, but not limited to, disruption of our access to capital and credit markets, difficulty in obtaining financing necessary to expand facilities or acquire assets, increased financing cost and increasingly restrictive covenants. our operating results may be affected materially and adversely by unfavorable economic and market conditions. economic conditions worldwide have from time to time contributed to slowdowns in the oil and gas industry, as well as in the specific segments and markets in which we operate, resulting in reduced demand and increased price competition for our products and services. our operating results in one or more geographic regions may also be affected by uncertain or changing economic conditions within that region. volatility in commodity prices may have an impact on many of our customers, which, in turn, could have a negative impact on their ability to meet their obligations to us. if global economic and market conditions (including volatility in commodity markets), or economic conditions in the united states or other key markets, remain uncertain or persist, spread or deteriorate further, we may experience materia l impacts on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. our cash flow depends heavily on the earnings and distributions of oneok partners. our partnership interest in oneok partners is one of our largest cash-generating assets. therefore, our cash flow is heavily dependent upon the ability of oneok partners to make distributions to its partners. a significant decline in oneok partners' earnings and/or cash distributions would have a corresponding negative impact on us. for information on the risk factors inherent in the business of oneok partners, see the section below entitled risk factors related to oneok partners' business and item 1a, risk factors in the oneok partners annual report. some of our nonregulated businesses have a higher level of risk than our regulated businesses. some of our nonregulated operations, which includes oneok partners' natural gas gathering and processing business, most of its natural gas liquids business, our energy services business and the retail marketing portion of our distribution business have a higher level of risk than our regulated operations, which include the ldcs in our distribution business, oneok partners' natural gas pipelines business and a portion of its natural gas liquids business. we and oneok partners expect to continue investing in natural gas and natural gas liquids projects and other related projects, some or all of which may involve nonregulated businesses or assets. these projects could involve risks associated with operational factors, such as competition and dependence on certain suppliers and customers, and financial, econo mic and political factors, such as rapid and significant changes in commodity prices, the cost and availability of capital and counterparty risk, including the inability of a counterparty, customer or supplier to fulfill a contractual obligation. our ldcs have recorded certain assets that may not be recoverable from our customers. accounting principles that govern our ldcs permit certain assets that result from the regulatory process to be recorded on our balance sheet that could not be recorded under gaap for nonregulated entities. we consider factors such as rate orders from regulators, previous rate orders for substantially similar costs, written approval from the regulators and analysis of 18 table of contents recoverability from internal and external legal counsel to determine the probability of future recovery of these assets. if we determine future recovery is no longer probable, we would be required to write off the regulatory assets at that time. terrorist attacks aimed at our facilities could adversely affect our business. since the september 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, the united states government has issued warnings that energy assets, specifically the nation's pipeline infrastructure, may be future targets of terrorist organizations. these developments may subject our operations to increased risks. any future terrorist attack that may target our facilities, those of our customers and, in some cases, those of other pipelines, could have a material adverse effect on our business. our businesses are subject to market and credit risks. we are exposed to market and credit risks in all of our operations. to minimize the risk of commodity price fluctuations, we periodically enter into derivative transactions to hedge anticipated purchases and sales of natural gas, ngls, crude oil, fuel requirements and firm transportation commitments. interest-rate swaps are also used to manage interest-rate risk. currency forward contracts are used to mitigate unexpected changes that may occur in anticipated revenue streams of our canadian natural gas sales and purchases driven by currency rate fluctuations. however, financial derivative instrument contracts do not eliminate the risks. specifically, such risks include commodity price changes, market supply shortages, interest rate changes and counterparty default. the impac t of these variables could result in our inability to fulfill contractual obligations, significantly higher energy or fuel costs relative to corresponding sales contracts, or increased interest expense. we are subject to the risk of loss resulting from nonpayment and/or nonperformance by customers and counterparties of our energy services segment. the customers of our energy services segment are predominantly ldcs, industrial customers, natural gas producers and marketers that may experience deterioration of their financial condition as a result of changing market conditions or financial difficulties that could impact their creditworthiness or ability to pay for our services. if we fail to assess adequately the creditworthiness of existing or future customers, unanticipated deterioration in their creditworthiness and any resulting nonpayment and/or nonperformance could adversely impact results of operations for our energy services segment. in addition, if any of our energy services segment's custome rs or counterparties filed for bankruptcy protection, we may not be able to recover amounts owed, which could materially and adversely impact the results of operations for our energy services segment. increased competition could have a significant adverse financial impact on us. the natural gas and natural gas liquids industries are expected to remain highly competitive. the demand for natural gas and ngls is primarily a function of commodity prices, including prices for alternative energy sources, customer usage rates, weather, economic conditions and service costs. our ability to compete also depends on a number of other factors, including competition from other pipelines for our existing load, the efficiency, quality and reliability of the services we provide, and competition for throughput for our gathering systems, pipelines, processing plants, fractionators and storage facilities. we cannot predict when we will be subject to changes in legislation or regulation, nor can we predict the impact of these changes on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. there are no assurances that our business will be positioned to effectively compete in the future. we may not be able to successfully make additional strategic acquisitions or integrate businesses we acquire into our operations. our ability to successfully make strategic acquisitions and investments will depend on: (i) the extent to which acquisitions and investment opportunities become available; (ii) our success in bidding for the opportunities that do become available; (iii) regulatory approval, if required, of the acquisitions on favorable terms; and (iv) our access to capital, including our ability to use our equity in acquisitions or investments, and the terms upon which we obtain capital. if we are unable to make strategic investments and acquisitions, we may be unable to grow. if we are unable to successfully integrate new businesses into our operations, we could experience increased costs and losses on our investments. acquisitions that appear to be accretive may nevertheless reduce our cash from operations on a per share basis. any acquisition involves potential risks that may include, among other things: inaccurate assumptions about volumes, revenues and costs, including potential synergies; an inability to successfully integrate the businesses we acquire; 19 table of contents decrease in our liquidity as a result of our using a significant portion of our available cash or borrowing capacity to finance the acquisition; a significant increase in our interest expense or financial leverage if we incur additional debt to finance the acquisition; the assumption of unknown liabilities for which we are not indemnified, for which our indemnity is inadequate or for which our insurance policies may exclude from coverage; an inability to hire, train or retain qualified personnel to manage and operate the acquired business and assets; limitations on rights to indemnity from the seller; inaccurate assumptions about the overall costs of equity or debt; the diversion of management's and employees' attention from other business concerns; unforeseen difficulties operating in new product areas or new geographic areas; increased regulatory burdens; customer or key employee losses at an acquired business; and increased regulatory requirements. if we consummate any future acquisitions, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly, and investors will not have the opportunity to evaluate the economic, financial and other relevant information that we will consider in determining the application of our resources to future acquisitions. any reduction in our credit ratings could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. our long-term senior unsecured debt has been assigned an investment-grade rating by s&amp;p of bbb (stable) and moody's of baa2 (stable); however, we cannot provide assurance that any of our current ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances in the future so warrant. specifically, if s&amp;p or moody's were to downgrade our long-term rating, particularly below investment grade, our borrowing costs would increase, which would affect adversely our financial results, and our potential pool of investors and funding sources could decrease. further, if our short-term ratings were to fall below a-2 or prime-2, the current ratings assigned by s&amp ;p and moody's, respectively, it could limit significantly our access to the commercial paper market. any such downgrade of our long- or short-term ratings could increase significantly our cost of capital and reduce the availability of capital and, thus, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. ratings from credit agencies are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our securities. each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. a downgrade in our credit ratings below investment grade would affect negatively the operations of our energy services segment. if our credit ratings fall below investment grade, ratings triggers and/or adequate assurance clauses in many of our financial and wholesale physical contracts would be in effect. a ratings trigger or adequate assurance clause gives a counterparty the right to suspend or terminate the agreement unless margin thresholds are met. margin requirements related to the trading activities of our energy services segment may also increase as a result of market volatility without regard to our credit rating. the additional increase in capital required to support our energy services segment would impact materially and adversely our ability to compete, as well as our ability to manage actively the risk associated with existing storage and transportation contracts. our established risk management policies and procedures may not be effective and employees may violate our risk management policies. we have developed and implemented a comprehensive set of policies and procedures that involve both our senior management and the audit committee of our board of directors to assist us in managing risks associated with, among other things, the trading activities of our energy services segment. our risk policies and procedures are intended to align strategies, processes, people, information technology and business knowledge so that risk is managed throughout the organization. as conditions change and become more complex, current risk measures may fail to assess adequately the relevant risk due to changes in the market and the presence of risks previously unknown to us. additionally, if employees fail to adhere to our policies and procedures or if our policies and procedures are not effective, potentially bec ause of future conditions or risks outside of our control, we may be exposed to greater risk than we had intended. ineffective risk management policies and procedures or violation of risk management policies and procedures could have an adverse affect on our earnings, financial position or cash flows. 20 table of contents our indebtedness could impair our financial condition and our ability to fulfill our other obligations. as of december 31, 2010, we had total indebtedness for borrowed money of approximately $1.6 billion, which excludes the debt of oneok partners. our indebtedness could have significant consequences. for example, it could: make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our notes and our other indebtedness due to the increased debt-service obligations, which could, in turn, result in an event of default on such other indebtedness or our notes; impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general business purposes; diminish our ability to withstand a downturn in our business or the economy; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to debt-service payments, reducing the availability of cash for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, or general corporate purposes; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared with our competitors that have proportionately less debt. we are not prohibited under the indentures governing our senior notes from incurring additional indebtedness, but our debt agreements do subject us to certain operational limitations summarized in the next paragraph. if we incur significant additional indebtedness, it could worsen the negative consequences mentioned above and could affect adversely our ability to repay our other indebtedness. our revolving debt agreements with banks contain provisions that restrict our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to expand or pursue our business activities. for example, certain of these agreements contain provisions that, among other things, limit our ability to make loans or investments, make material changes to the nature of our business, merge, consolidate or engage in asset sales, grant liens, or make negative pledges. certain agreements also require us to maintain certain financial ratios, which limit the amount of additional indebtedness we can incur, as described in the liquidity and capital resources section of item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation. these restrictions could result in higher costs of b orrowing and impair our ability to generate additional cash. future financing agreements we may enter into may contain similar or more restrictive covenants. if we are unable to meet our debt-service obligations, we could be forced to restructure or refinance our indebtedness, seek additional equity capital or sell assets. we may be unable to obtain financing or sell assets on satisfactory terms, or at all. we are subject to comprehensive energy regulation by governmental agencies, and the recovery of our costs is dependent on regulatory action. we are subject to comprehensive regulation by several federal, state and municipal utility regulatory agencies, which significantly influences our operating environment and our ability to recover our costs from utility customers. the utility regulatory authorities in oklahoma, kansas and texas regulate many aspects of our utility operations, including customer service and the rates that we can charge customers. federal, state and local agencies also have jurisdiction over many of our other activities, including regulation by the ferc of our storage and interstate pipeline assets. the profitability of our regulated operations is dependent on our ability to pass through costs related to providing energy and other commodities to our customers by filing synchronized rate cases. the regulatory enviro nment applicable to our regulated businesses could impair our ability to recover costs historically absorbed by our customers. we are unable to predict the impact that the future regulatory activities of these agencies will have on our operating results. changes in regulations or the imposition of additional regulations could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. further, the results of our ldcs' operations could be negatively impacted if the cost recovery mechanisms authorized by our rate cases do not function as anticipated. additionally, the regulatory authorities of each state in which we operate allow ldcs to obtain weather protection. if the weather protection clause is disallowed, it would affect our business. the adoption and implementation of new statutory and regulatory requirements for derivative transactions could have an adverse impact on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business and increase the working capital requirements to conduct these activities. in july 2010, the dodd-frank act was enacted, which provides for new statutory and regulatory requirements for financial derivative transactions. certain derivative transactions will be required to be cleared on exchanges, and cash collateral will be required for these transactions. however, the dodd-frank act provides for a potential exemption from these clearing and 21 table of contents cash collateral requirements for commercial end-users and includes a number of defined terms that will be used in determining how this exemption applies to particular derivative transactions and to the parties to those transactions. additionally, the dodd-frank act calls for various regulatory agencies, including the sec and the cftc, to establish regulations for implementation of many of the provisions of the act. it also requires the cftc to establish new position trading limits. we expect to be able to continue to participate in financial markets for hedging certain risks inherent in our business, including commodity and interest-rate risks; however, the costs of doing so may increase as a result of the new legislation. we may also incur additional costs associated with our compliance with the new regulations and anticipated additional record-keeping, reporting and disclosure obligations. these requirements could adversely affect the liquidity and pricing of derivative contracts, and the anticipated increased costs of compliance by dealers and counterparties will likely be passed on to customers, which could decrease the benefits of hedging to us and could reduce our profitability and liquidity. the volatility of natural gas prices may impact negatively ldc customers' perception of natural gas. natural gas costs are passed through to the customers of our ldcs based on the actual cost of the natural gas purchased by the particular ldc. substantial fluctuations in natural gas prices can occur from year to year. sustained periods of high natural gas prices or of pronounced natural gas price volatility may impact negatively our ldc customers' perception of natural gas, which could lead to customers selecting other energy alternatives, such as electricity, and to difficulties in the rate-making process. additionally, high natural gas prices may cause customers to conserve more and may also impact adversely our accounts receivable collections, resulting in higher bad-debt expense. our business is subject to increased regulatory oversight and potential penalties. the natural gas industry historically has been heavily regulated; therefore, there is no assurance that a more stringent regulatory approach will not be pursued by the ferc, cftc and/or the united states congress in the future. in response to previous market power abuse by certain companies engaged in interstate commerce, the united states congress, in the energy policy act of 2005 (epact), developed requirements intended to ensure that the energy market is not impacted by the exercise of market power or manipulative conduct. the ferc then adopted the market manipulation rules to implement the authority granted under epact. these rules are intended to prohibit fraud and manipulation and are subject to broad interpretation. epact also gave the ferc increased penalty authority for violations of th ese rules, as well as other ferc rules. in addition to the authority granted to the ferc under epact, the cftc also has the authority to regulate market manipulation under the commodities exchange act and the dodd-frank act. demand for services of our distribution and energy services segments and for certain of oneok partners' products is highly weather sensitive and seasonal. the demand for natural gas and for certain of oneok partners' products, such as propane, is weather sensitive and seasonal, with a significant portion of revenues derived from sales to retail markets for heating during the winter months. weather conditions influence directly the volume of, among other things, natural gas and propane delivered to customers. deviations in weather from normal levels and the seasonal nature of certain of our segments' business can create large variations in earnings and short-term cash requirements. we are subject to environmental regulations that could be difficult and costly to comply with. we are subject to multiple environmental laws and regulations affecting many aspects of present and future operations, including air emissions, water quality, wastewater discharges, solid and hazardous wastes and hazardous material and substance management. these laws and regulations generally require us to obtain and comply with a wide variety of environmental registrations, licenses, permits, inspections and other approvals. failure to comply with these laws, regulations, permits and licenses may expose us to fines, penalties and/or interruptions in our operations that could be material to the results of operations. if a leak or spill of hazardous substance occurs from our lines or facilities in the process of transporting natural gas or ngls or at any facility that we own, operate or otherwise use, we c ould be held jointly and severally liable for all resulting liabilities, including investigation and clean-up costs, which could materially affect our results of operations and cash flows. in addition, emission controls required under the federal clean air act and other similar federal and state laws could require unexpected capital expenditures at our facilities. in addition, the epa issued a rule on air-quality standards, national emission standards for hazardous air pollutants for reciprocating internal combustion engines, also known as rice neshap, scheduled to be adopted in early 2013. the rule will require capital expenditures over the next three years for the purchase and installation of new emissions-control equipment. we do not expect these expenditures to have a material impact on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. we cannot assure that existing environmental regulations will not be revised or that new regulat ions will not be adopted or become 22 table of contents applicable to us. revised or additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, particularly if those costs are not fully recoverable from customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. for further discussion on this topic, see note p of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this annual report. we are subject to risks that could limit our access to capital, thereby increasing our costs and affecting adversely our results of operations. we have grown rapidly in the past as a result of acquisitions. future acquisitions may require additional capital. if we are not able to access capital at competitive rates, our strategy of enhancing the earnings potential of our existing assets, including through acquisitions of complementary assets or businesses, will be adversely affected. a number of factors could affect adversely our ability to access capital, including: (i) general economic conditions; (ii) capital market conditions; (iii) market prices for natural gas, ngls and other hydrocarbons; (iv) the overall health of the energy and related industries; (v) our ability to maintain our investment-grade credit ratings; and (vi) our capital structure. much of our business is capital intensive, and achieveme nt of our long-term growth targets is dependent, at least in part, upon our ability to access capital at rates and on terms we determine to be attractive. if our ability to access capital becomes constrained significantly, our interest costs will likely increase and our financial condition and future results of operations could be harmed significantly. energy efficiency and technological advances may affect the demand for natural gas and affect adversely our operating results. the national trend toward increased conservation and technological advances, including installation of improved insulation and the development of more efficient furnaces and other heating devices, may decrease the demand for natural gas by residential customers. more strict conservation measures in the future or technological advances in heating, conservation, energy generation or other devices could affect adversely our operations. the cost of providing pension and postretirement health care benefits to eligible employees and qualified retirees is subject to changes in pension fund values and changing demographics and may increase. we have a defined benefit pension plan for certain employees and postretirement welfare plans that provide postretirement medical and life insurance benefits to certain employees who retire with at least five years of service. the cost of providing these benefits to eligible current and former employees is subject to changes in the market value of our pension and postretirement benefit plan assets, changing demographics, including longer life expectancy of plan participants and their beneficiaries and changes in health care costs. for further discussion of our defined benefit pension plan, see note l of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this annual report. any sustained declines in equity markets and reductions in bond yields may have a material adverse effect on the value of our pension and postretirement benefit plan assets. in these circumstances, additional cash contributions to our pension plans may be required. our business could be affected adversely by strikes or work stoppages by our unionized employees. as of january 31, 2011, 728 of our 4,839 employees were represented by collective bargaining units under collective bargaining agreements. we are involved periodically in discussions with collective bargaining units representing some of our employees to negotiate or renegotiate labor agreements. we cannot predict the results of these negotiations, including whether any failure to reach new agreements will have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations or whether we will be able to reach any agreement with the collective bargaining units. any failure to reach agreement on new labor contracts might result in a work stoppage. any future work stoppage could, depending on the operations and the length of the work stoppage, have a material adverse effect on our b usiness, financial condition and results of certain operations. we may face significant costs to comply with the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions. greenhouse gas emissions originate primarily from combustion engine exhaust, heater exhaust and fugitive methane gas emissions. various federal and state legislative proposals have been introduced to regulate the emission of greenhouse gases, particularly carbon dioxide and methane, and the united states supreme court has ruled that carbon dioxide is a pollutant subject to regulation by the epa. in addition, there have been international efforts seeking legally binding reductions in emissions of greenhouse gases. 23 table of contents we believe it is possible that future governmental legislation and/or regulation may require us either to limit greenhouse gas emissions from our operations or to purchase allowances for such emissions that are actually attributable to our distribution customers or attributable to ngl customers of oneok partners. however, we cannot predict precisely what form these future regulations will take, the stringency of the regulations, or when they will become effective. several bills have been introduced in the united states congress that would require carbon dioxide emission reductions. previously considered proposals have included, among other things, limitations on the amount of greenhouse gases that can be emitted (so called caps ) together with systems of emissions allowances. this ystem could require us to reduce emissions, even though the technology is not currently available for efficient reduction, or to purchase allowances for such emissions. emissions also could be taxed independently of limits. in addition to activities on the federal level, state and regional initiatives could also lead to the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions sooner and/or independent of federal regulation. these regulations could be more stringent than any federal regulation or legislation that is adopted. future legislation and/or regulation designed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions could make some of our activities uneconomic to maintain or operate. further, we may not be able to pass on the higher costs to our customers or recover all costs related to complying with greenhouse gas regulatory requirements. our future results of operations, cash flows or financial condition could be adversely affected if such costs are not recovered through regulated rates or otherwise passed on to our customers. we continue to monitor legislative and regulatory developments in this area. although the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions may have a material impact on our operations and rates, we are unable to quantify the potential costs of the impacts at this time. we do not hedge fully against commodity price changes, time differentials or locational differentials. this could result in decreased revenues and increased costs, thereby resulting in lower margins and adversely affecting our results of operations. certain of our nonregulated and regulated businesses are exposed to market risk and the impact of market price fluctuations of natural gas, ngls and crude oil. market risk refers to the risk of loss of cash flows and future earnings arising from adverse changes in commodity prices. our energy services segment's primary exposures arise from seasonal and locational price differentials and our ability to execute hedges. our oneok partners segment's primary exposures arise from the value of the ngl and natural gas it receives in exchange for the natural gas gathering and processing services it provides; the differentials between commodity prices with respect to its keep-whole contracts and the differentials between ngl and natural gas prices and their impact on our natural gas and ngl transportatio n, fractionation and exchange throughputs; the differentials between the individual ngl products; differentials between ngl prices at different locations; the seasonal differentials impacting the volume of natural gas and ngls stored; and the fuel costs and the value of the retained fuel in-kind in oneok partners' natural gas pipelines and storage operations. our oneok partners and energy services segments are also exposed to the risk of changing prices or the cost of transportation resulting from purchasing natural gas or ngls at one location and selling it at another (referred to as basis risk). to minimize the risk from market price fluctuations of natural gas, ngls and crude oil, we use physical forward transactions and commodity derivative instruments such as futures contracts, swaps and options to manage market risk of existing or anticipated purchases and sales of natural gas, ngls and crude oil. we adhere to policies and procedures that monitor our ex posure to market risk from open positions. however, we do not fully hedge against commodity price changes, and therefore, we retain some exposure to market risk. accordingly, any adverse changes to commodity prices could result in decreased revenue and/or increased costs. our distribution segment uses storage to minimize the volatility of natural gas costs for our customers by storing natural gas in periods of low demand for consumption in peak demand periods. in addition, various natural gas supply contracts allow us the option to convert index-based purchases to fixed prices. also, we use derivative instruments to hedge the cost of anticipated natural gas purchases during the winter heating months to protect customers from upward volatility in the market price of natural gas. federal, state and local jurisdictions may challenge our tax return positions. the positions taken in our federal and state tax return filings require significant judgments, use of estimates and the interpretation and application of complex tax laws. significant judgment is also required in assessing the timing and amounts of deductible and taxable items. despite management's belief that our tax return positions are fully supportable, certain positions may be successfully challenged by federal, state and local jurisdictions. 24 table of contents although we control oneok partners, we may have conflicts of interest with oneok partners which could subject us to claims that we have breached our fiduciary duty to oneok partners and its unitholders. we are the sole general partner and own 42.8 percent of oneok partners. conflicts of interest may arise between us and oneok partners and its unitholders. in resolving these conflicts, we may favor our own interests and the interests of our affiliates over the interests of oneok partners and its unitholders as long as the resolution does not conflict with the oneok partners' partnership agreement or our fiduciary duties to oneok partners and its unitholders. we are subject to physical and financial risks associated with climate change. there is a growing belief that emissions of greenhouse gases may be linked to global climate change. climate change creates physical and financial risk. our customers' energy needs vary with weather conditions, primarily temperature and humidity. for residential customers, heating and cooling represent their largest energy use. to the extent weather conditions may be affected by climate change, customers' energy use could increase or decrease depending on the duration and magnitude of any changes. increased energy use due to weather changes may require us to invest in more pipeline and other infrastructure to serve increased demand. a decrease in energy use due to weather changes may affect our financial condition, through decreased revenues. extreme weather conditions in general require more system backup, adding to costs, and can contribute to increased system stresses, including service interruptions. weather conditions outside of our operating territory could also have an impact on our revenues. severe weather impacts our operating territories primarily through hurricanes, thunderstorms, tornadoes and snow or ice storms. to the extent the frequency of extreme weather events increases, this could increase our cost of providing service. we may not be able to pass on the higher costs to our customers or recover all the costs related to mitigating these physical risks. to the extent financial markets view climate change and emissions of greenhouse gases as a financial risk, this could affect negatively our ability to access capital markets or cause us to receive less favorable terms and conditions in future financings. our business could be affected by the potential for lawsuits against gr eenhouse gas emitters, based on links drawn between greenhouse gas emissions and climate change. risk factors related to oneok partners' business the volatility of natural gas, crude oil and ngl prices could adversely affect oneok partners' cash flow. a significant portion of oneok partners' revenues are derived from the sale of commodities that are received as payment for gathering and processing services, for the transportation and storage of natural gas, and for the sale of purity ngl products in oneok partners' natural gas liquids business. commodity prices have been volatile and are likely to continue to be so in the future. the prices oneok partners receives for its commodities are subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors beyond oneok partners' control, including, but not limited to, the following: overall domestic and global economic conditions; relatively minor changes in the supply of, and demand for, domestic and foreign energy; market uncertainty; the availability and cost of third-party transportation, natural gas processing and natural gas liquids fractionation capacity; the level of consumer product demand; geopolitical conditions impacting supply and demand for natural gas and crude oil; weather conditions; domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; the price and availability of alternative fuels; speculation in the commodity futures markets; overall domestic and global economic conditions; the price of natural gas, crude oil, ngl and liquefied natural gas imports; the effect of worldwide energy conservation measures; and the impact of new supplies, new pipelines, processing and fractionation facilities on basis differentials. these external factors and the volatile nature of the energy markets make it difficult to reliably estimate future prices of commodities and the impact commodity price fluctuations have on our customers and their need for our services. as commodity prices decline, oneok partners is paid less for its commodities, thereby reducing its cash flow. in addition, production could also decline. 25 table of contents oneok partners' use of financial instruments to hedge market risk may result in reduced income. oneok partners utilizes financial instruments to mitigate its exposure to interest-rate and commodity price fluctuations. hedging instruments that are used to reduce its exposure to interest-rate fluctuations could expose it to risk of financial loss where it has contracted for variable-rate swap instruments to hedge fixed-rate instruments and the variable rate exceeds the fixed rate. in addition, these hedging arrangements may limit the benefit oneok partners would otherwise receive if it had contracted for fixed-rate swap agreements to hedge variable-rate instruments and the variable rate falls below the fixed rate. hedging arrangements that are used to reduce oneok partners' exposure to commodity price fluctuations may limit the benefit oneok partners would otherwise receive if market prices for n atural gas, crude oil and ngls exceed the stated price in the hedge instrument for these commodities. oneok partners' inability to develop and execute growth projects and acquire new assets could result in reduced cash distributions to its unitholders and to oneok. oneok partners' primary business objectives are to generate cash flow sufficient to pay quarterly cash distributions to unitholders and to increase quarterly cash distributions over time. oneok partners' ability to maintain and grow its distributions to unitholders, including oneok, depends on the growth of its existing businesses and strategic acquisitions. accordingly, if oneok partners is unable to implement business development opportunities and finance such activities on economically acceptable terms, its future growth will be limited, which could adversely impact its and our results of operations and cash flows. growing oneok partners' business by constructing new pipelines and plants or making modifications to its existing facilities subjects oneok partners to construction risks and risks that adequate natural gas or ngl supplies will not be available upon completion of the facilities. one of the ways oneok partners intends to grow its business is through the construction of new pipelines and new gathering, processing, storage and fractionation facilities and through modifications to oneok partners' existing pipelines and existing gathering, processing, storage and fractionation facilities. the construction and modification of pipelines and gathering, processing, storage and fractionation facilities may require significant capital expenditures, which may exceed oneok partners' estimates, and involves numerous regulatory, environmental, political, legal and weather-related uncertainties. construction projects in oneok partners' industry may increase demand for labor, materials and rights of way, which, may, in turn, impact oneok partners' costs and schedule. if one ok partners undertakes these projects, it may not be able to complete them on schedule or at the budgeted cost. additionally, oneok partners' revenues may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project. for instance, if oneok partners builds a new pipeline, the construction will occur over an extended period of time, and oneok partners will not receive any material increases in revenues until after completion of the project. oneok partners may have only limited natural gas or ngl supplies committed to these facilities prior to their construction. additionally, oneok partners may construct facilities to capture anticipated future growth in production in a region in which anticipated production growth does not materialize. oneok partners may also rely on estimates of proved reserves in oneok partners' decision to construct new pipelines and facilities, which may prove to be inaccurate because there are numerous u ncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves. as a result, new facilities may not be able to attract enough natural gas or ngls to achieve oneok partners' expected investment return, which could materially adversely affect oneok partners' results of operations and financial condition. oneok partners does not own all of the land on which its pipelines and facilities are located, and it leases certain facilities and equipment, which could disrupt its operations. oneok partners does not own all of the land on which certain of its pipelines and facilities are located, and is, therefore, subject to the risk of increased costs to maintain necessary land use. oneok partners obtains the rights to construct and operate certain of its pipelines and related facilities on land owned by third parties and governmental agencies for a specific period of time. oneok partners' loss of these rights, through its inability to renew right-of-way contracts on acceptable terms or increased costs to renew such rights, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. additionally, certain natural gas processing, natural gas liquids fractionators or other facilities (or parts thereof) used by oneok partners are leased from third parties for specific periods. oneok partners' inability to renew equipment leases or otherwise maintain the right to utilize such facilities and equipment on acceptable terms, or the increased costs to maintain such rights, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. 26 table of contents oneok partners' operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions, which could materially adversely affect its business and for which oneok partners may not be adequately insured. oneok partners' operations are subject to all of the risks and hazards typically associated with the operation of natural gas and natural gas liquids gathering and transportation pipelines, storage facilities and processing and fractionation plants. operating risks include, but are not limited to, leaks, pipeline ruptures, the breakdown or failure of equipment or processes, and the performance of pipeline facilities below expected levels of capacity and efficiency. other operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions include adverse weather conditions, accidents, the collision of equipment with oneok partners' pipeline facilities (for example, this may occur if a third party were to perform excavation or construction work near oneok partners' facilities) and catastrophic events such as explosions, fires, hu rricanes, earthquakes, floods or other similar events beyond oneok partners' control. it is also possible that oneok partners' facilities could be direct targets or indirect casualties of an act of terrorism. a casualty occurrence might result in injury or loss of life, extensive property damage or environmental damage. liabilities incurred and interruptions to the operation of oneok partners' pipeline caused by such an event could reduce revenues generated by oneok partners and increase expenses, thereby impairing oneok partners' ability to meet its obligations. insurance proceeds may not be adequate to cover all liabilities or expenses incurred or revenues lost, and oneok partners is not fully insured against all risks inherent to oneok partners' business. as a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain insurance policies can increase substantially, and, in some instances, certain insurance may become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. consequently, oneok partners may not be able to renew existing insurance policies or purchase other desirable insurance on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. if oneok partners was to incur a significant liability for which oneok partners was not fully insured, it could have a material adverse effect on oneok partners' financial position and results of operations. further, the proceeds of any such insurance may not be paid in a timely manner and may be insufficient if such an event were to occur. a shortage of skilled labor may make it difficult for oneok partners to maintain labor productivity and competitive costs, which could affect operations and cash flows available for distribution. oneok partners' operations require skilled and experienced workers with proficiency in multiple tasks. in recent years, a shortage of workers trained in various skills associated with the midstream energy business has caused oneok partners to conduct certain operations without full staff, thus hiring outside resources, which decreases its productivity and increases its costs. this shortage of trained workers is the result of experienced workers reaching retirement age, combined with the difficulty of attracting new workers to the midstream energy industry. this shortage of skilled labor could continue over an extended period. if the shortage of experienced labor continues or worsens, it could have an adverse impact on oneok partners' labor productivity and costs and oneok partners&#8 217; ability to expand production in the event there is an increase in the demand for oneok partners' products and services, which could adversely affect its operations and cash flows available for distribution to unitholders. if the level of drilling and production in the mid-continent, rocky mountain, texas and gulf coast regions declines substantially near its assets, oneok partners' volumes and revenue could decline. oneok partners' ability to maintain or expand its businesses depends largely on the level of drilling and production by third parties in the mid-continent, rocky mountain, texas and gulf coast regions. drilling and production are impacted by factors beyond oneok partners' control, including: demand and prices for natural gas, ngls and crude oil; producers' finding and developing costs of reserves; producers' desire and ability to obtain necessary permits in a timely and economic manner; natural gas field characteristics and production performance; surface access and infrastructure issues; and capacity constraints on natural gas, crude oil and natural gas liquids pipelines from the producing areas and oneok partners' facilities. in addition, drilling and production may be impacted by environmental regulations governing water discharge or regulation of drilling and production technologies including, but not limited to, hydraulic fracturing. if the level of drilling and production in any of these regions substantially declines, oneok partners' volumes and revenue could be materially reduced. 27 table of contents if production from the western canada sedimentary basin remains flat or declines, and demand for natural gas from the western canada sedimentary basin is greater in market areas other than the midwestern united states, demand for oneok partners' interstate gas transportation services could significantly decrease. oneok partners depends on natural gas supply from the western canada sedimentary basin for some of oneok partners' interstate pipelines, primarily viking gas transmission and oneok partners' investment in northern border pipeline, that transport canadian natural gas from the western canada sedimentary basin to the midwestern united states market area. if demand for natural gas increases in canada or other markets not served by oneok partners' interstate pipelines and/or production remains flat or declines, demand for transportation service on oneok partners' interstate natural gas pipelines could decrease significantly, which could adversely impact oneok partners' results of operations and cash flows available for distributions. pipeline-integrity programs and repairs may impose significant costs and liabilities. pursuant to a united states department of transportation rule, pipeline operators were required to develop integrity management programs for intrastate and interstate natural gas and natural gas liquids pipelines located near high-consequence areas, where a leak or rupture could do the most harm. the rule also requires operators to perform ongoing assessments of pipeline integrity; identify and characterize applicable threats to pipeline segments that could impact a high-consequence area; improve data collection, integration and analysis; repair and remediate the pipeline as necessary; and implement preventive and mitigating actions. the results of these testing programs could cause oneok partners to incur significant capital and operating expenditures to make repairs or remediate, as well as initiate preventive or m itigating actions that are determined to be necessary. oneok partners' regulated pipelines' transportation rates are subject to review and possible adjustment by federal and state regulators. oneok partners' regulated pipelines are subject to extensive regulation by the ferc and state regulatory agencies, which regulate most aspects of oneok partners' pipeline business, including oneok partners' transportation rates. under the natural gas act, which is applicable to interstate natural gas pipelines, and the interstate commerce act, which is applicable to crude oil and natural gas liquids pipelines, interstate transportation rates must be just and reasonable and not unduly discriminatory. action by the ferc or a state regulatory agency could adversely affect oneok partners' pipeline business' ability to establish or charge rates that would cover future increases in its costs, or even to continue to collect rates that cover current costs, including a reasonable return. oneok partners cannot assure unitholders that its pipeline systems will be able to recover all of its costs through existing or future rates. oneok partners' regulated pipeline companies have recorded certain assets that may not be recoverable from its customers. accounting policies for ferc-regulated companies permit certain assets that result from the regulated ratemaking process to be recorded on oneok partners balance sheet that could not be recorded under gaap for nonregulated entities. oneok partners considers factors such as regulatory changes and the impact of competition to determine the probability of future recovery of these assets. if oneok partners determines future recovery is no longer probable, oneok partners would be required to write off the regulatory assets at that time. oneok partners' operations are subject to federal and state laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, which may expose it to significant costs and liabilities. the risk of incurring substantial environmental costs and liabilities is inherent in oneok partners' business. oneok partners' operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into, or otherwise relating to the protection of, the environment. examples of these laws include: the clean air act and analogous state laws that impose obligations related to air emissions; the clean water act and analogous state laws that regulate discharge of waste water from oneok partners' facilities to state and federal waters; the federal cercla and analogous state laws that regulate the cleanup of hazardous substances that may have been released at properties currently or previously owned or operated by oneok partners or locations to which oneok partners has sent waste for disposal; the federal resource conservation and recovery act and analogous state laws that impose requirements for the handling and discharge of solid and hazardous waste from oneok partners' facilities; and 28 table of contents the epa has issued a rule on air quality standards, known as rice neshap, that is scheduled to be adopted in early 2013. various federal and state governmental authorities, including the epa, have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them. violators are subject to administrative, civil and criminal penalties, including civil fines, injunctions or both. joint and several, strict liability may be incurred without regard to fault under the cercla, resource conservation and recovery act and analogous state laws for the remediation of contaminated areas. there is an inherent risk of incurring environmental costs and liabilities in oneok partners' business due to its handling of the products it gathers, transports, processes and stores, air emissions related to its operations, historical industry operations and waste disposal practices, some of which may be material. private parties, including the owners of properties through which oneok partners' pipeline systems pass, may have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as to seek damages for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage arising from oneok partners' operations. some sites oneok partners operates are located near current or former third-party hydrocarbon storage and processing operations, and there is a risk that contamination has migrated from those sites to oneok partners' sites. in addition, increasingly strict laws, regulations and enforcement policies could increase significantly oneok partners' compliance costs and the cost of any remediation that may become necessary, some of which may be material. additional information is included under item 1, business under environmental and safety matters and in note p of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this annual report. oneok partners' insurance may not cover all environmental risks and costs or may not provide sufficient coverage in the event an environmental claim is made against oneok partners. oneok partners' business may be materially adversely affected by increased costs due to stricter pollution-control requirements or liabilities resulting from non-compliance with required operating or other regulatory permits. new environmental regulations might also materially adversely affect oneok partners' products and activities, and federal and state agencies could impose additional safety requirements, all of which could affect materially oneok partners' profitability. in the competition for customers, oneok partners may have significant levels of uncontracted or discounted capacity on its natural gas and natural gas liquids pipelines, processing, fractionation and storage assets. oneok partners' natural gas and natural gas liquids pipelines, processing, fractionation and storage assets compete with other pipelines, processing, fractionation and storage facilities for natural gas and ngl supplies delivered to the markets it serves. as a result of competition, at any given time oneok partners may have significant levels of uncontracted or discounted capacity on its pipelines, processing, fractionation and in its storage assets, which could have a material adverse impact on oneok partners' results of operations. oneok partners is exposed to the credit risk of its customers or counterparties, and its credit risk management may not be adequate to protect against such risk. oneok partners is subject to the risk of loss resulting from nonpayment and/or nonperformance by oneok partners' customers or counterparties. oneok partners' customers or counterparties may experience rapid deterioration of their financial condition as a result of changing market conditions or financial difficulties that could impact their creditworthiness or ability to pay oneok partners for its services. oneok partners assesses the creditworthiness of its customers or counterparties and obtains collateral as it deems appropriate. if oneok partners fails to adequately assess the creditworthiness of existing or future customers or counterparties, unanticipated deterioration in their creditworthiness and any resulting nonpayment and/or nonperformance could adversely impact oneok partners' results of operations. in addition, if any of oneok partners' customers or counterparties files for bankruptcy protection, this could have a material negative impact on oneok partners' results of operations. any reduction in oneok partners' credit ratings could materially and adversely affect its business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. oneok partners' senior unsecured long-term debt has been assigned an investment-grade rating by moody's of baa2 (stable) and by s&amp;p of bbb (stable); however, we cannot provide assurance that any of its current ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances in the future so warrant. specifically, if moody's or s&amp;p were to downgrade oneok partners' long-term debt rating, particularly below investment grade, its borrowing costs would increase, which would affect adversely its financial results, and its potential pool of investors and funding sources could decrease. ratings from credit agencies are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold oneok partners' securities. each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. 29 table of contents an event of default may require oneok partners to offer to repurchase certain of its senior notes or may impair its ability to access capital. the indenture governing oneok partners' senior notes due 2011 include an event of default upon acceleration of other indebtedness of $25 million or more, and the indentures governing oneok partners' other senior notes include an event of default upon the acceleration of other indebtedness of $100 million or more. such events of default would entitle the trustee or the holders of 25 percent in aggregate principal amount of oneok partners' outstanding senior notes to declare those notes immediately due and payable in full. oneok partners may not have sufficient cash on hand to repurchase and repay any accelerated senior notes, which may cause oneok partners to borrow money under its credit facilities or seek alternative financing sources to finance the repurchases and repayment. oneok partn ers could also face difficulties accessing capital or its borrowing costs could increase, impacting its ability to obtain financing for acquisitions or capital expenditures, to refinance indebtedness and to fulfill its debt obligations. oneok partners has adopted certain valuation methodologies that may result in a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between the general partner and the unitholders. the irs may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of its limited partner units. when oneok partners issues additional units or engages in certain other transactions, oneok partners determines the fair market value of its assets and allocates any unrealized gain or loss attributable to its assets to the capital accounts of its unitholders and its general partner. oneok partners' methodology may be viewed as understating the value of its assets. in that case, there may be a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between certain unitholders and the general partner, which may be unfavorable to such unitholders. moreover, under oneok partners' current valuation methods, subsequent purchasers of common units may have a greater portion of their internal revenue code section 743(b) adjustment allocated to oneok partners' tangible assets and a lesser portion allocated to o neok partners' intangible assets. the irs may challenge oneok partners' valuation methods or oneok partners' allocation of the section 743(b) adjustment attributable to oneok partners' tangible and intangible assets, and allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction between the general partner and certain of oneok partners' unitholders. a successful irs challenge to these methods or allocations could affect adversely the amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to oneok partners' unitholders. it also could affect the amount of gain from oneok partners unitholders' sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to oneok partners unitholders' tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions. oneok partners' treatment of a purchaser of common units as having the same tax benefits as the seller could be challenged, resulting in a reduction in value of the common units. because oneok partners cannot match transferors and transferees of common units, oneok partners is required to maintain the uniformity of the economic and tax characteristics of these units in the hands of the purchasers and sellers of these units. oneok partners does so by adopting certain depreciation conventions that do not conform to all aspects of existing united states treasury regulations. a successful irs challenge to these conventions could affect adversely the tax benefits to a unitholder of ownership of the common units and could have a negative impact on their value or result in audit adjustments to oneok partners unitholders' tax returns. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 62-65risk factors our investors should consider the following risks that could affect us and our business. although we have tried to discuss key factors, our investors need to be aware that other risks may prove to be important in the future. new risks may emerge at any time, and we cannot predict such risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect our financial performance. investors should carefully consider the following discussion of risks and the other information included or incorporated by reference in this annual report, including forward-looking statements, which are included in item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. risk factors inherent in our business market volatility and capital availability could affect adversely our business. the capital and credit markets have experienced volatility and disruption in the past. in many cases during these periods, the capital markets have exerted downward pressure on equity values and reduced the credit capacity for certain companies. our ability to grow could be constrained if we do not have regular access to the capital and credit markets. similar or more severe levels of market disruption and volatility may have an adverse affect on us resulting from, but not limited to, disruption of our access to capital and credit markets, difficulty in obtaining financing necessary to expand facilities or acquire assets, increased financing cost and increasingly restrictive covenants. our operating results may be affected materially and adversely by unfavorable economic and market conditions. economic conditions worldwide have from time to time contributed to slowdowns in the oil and natural gas industry, as well as in the specific segments and markets in which we operate, resulting in reduced demand and increased price competition for our products and services. our operating results in one or more geographic regions may also be affected by uncertain or changing economic conditions within that region. volatility in commodity prices may have an impact on many of our customers, which, in turn, could have a negative impact on their ability to meet their obligations to us. if global economic and market conditions (including volatility in commodity markets), or economic conditions in the united states or other key markets, remain uncertain or persist, spread or deteriorate further, we may experience material impacts on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. our cash flow depends heavily on the earnings and distributions of oneok partners. our partnership interest in oneok partners is one of our largest cash-generating assets. therefore, our cash flow is heavily dependent upon the ability of oneok partners to make distributions to its partners. a significant decline in oneok partners' earnings and/or cash distributions would have a corresponding negative impact on us. for information on the risk factors inherent in the business of oneok partners, see the section below entitled additional risk factors related to oneok partners' business and item 1a, risk factors in the oneok partners' annual report. some of our nonregulated businesses have a higher level of risk than our regulated businesses. some of our nonregulated operations, which include oneok partners' natural gas gathering and processing business, most of its natural gas liquids business and our energy services business, have a higher level of risk than our regulated operations, which include the ldcs in our distribution business, oneok partners' natural gas pipelines business and a portion of its natural gas liquids business. we and oneok partners expect to continue investing in natural gas and natural gas liquids projects and other related projects, some or all of which may involve nonregulated businesses or assets. these projects could involve risks associated with operational factors, such as competition and dependence on certain suppliers and customers, and 19 table of contents financial, economic and political factors, such as rapid and significant changes in commodity prices, the cost and availability of capital and counterparty risk, including the inability of a counterparty, customer or supplier to fulfill a contractual obligation. our ldcs have recorded certain assets that may not be recoverable from our customers. accounting principles that govern our ldcs permit certain assets that result from the regulatory process to be recorded on our balance sheet that could not be recorded under gaap for nonregulated entities. we consider factors such as rate orders from regulators, previous rate orders for substantially similar costs, written approval from the regulators and analysis of recoverability from internal and external legal counsel to determine the probability of future recovery of these assets. if we determine future recovery is no longer probable, we would be required to write off the regulatory assets at that time. terrorist attacks aimed at our facilities could affect adversely our business. since the september 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, the united states government has issued warnings that energy assets, specifically the nation's pipeline infrastructure, may be future targets of terrorist organizations. these developments may subject our operations to increased risks. any future terrorist attack that may target our facilities, those of our customers and, in some cases, those of other pipelines, could have a material adverse effect on our business. our businesses are subject to market and credit risks. we are exposed to market and credit risks in all of our operations. to minimize the risk of commodity price fluctuations, we periodically enter into derivative transactions to hedge anticipated purchases and sales of natural gas, ngls, crude oil, fuel requirements and firm transportation commitments. interest-rate swaps are also used to manage interest-rate risk. currency forward contracts are used to mitigate unexpected changes that may occur in anticipated revenue streams of our canadian natural gas sales and purchases driven by currency rate fluctuations. however, financial derivative instrument contracts do not eliminate the risks. specifically, such risks include commodity price changes, market supply shortages, interest rate changes and counterparty default. the impact of these variables could result in our inability to fulfill contractual obligations, significantly higher energy or fuel costs relative to corresponding sales contracts, or increased interest expense. we are subject to the risk of loss resulting from nonpayment and/or nonperformance by customers and counterparties of our energy services segment. the customers of our energy services segment are predominantly ldcs, industrial customers, natural gas producers and marketers that may experience deterioration of their financial condition as a result of changing market conditions or financial difficulties that could impact their creditworthiness or ability to pay for our services. if we fail to assess adequately the creditworthiness of existing or future customers, unanticipated deterioration in their creditworthiness and any resulting nonpayment and/or nonperformance could adversely impact results of operations for our energy services segment. in addition, if any of our energy services segment's customers or counterparties filed for bankruptcy protection, we may not be able to recover amounts owed, which could impact materially and adversely the results of operations for our energy services segment. increased competition could have a significant adverse financial impact on us. the natural gas and natural gas liquids industries are expected to remain highly competitive. the demand for natural gas and ngls is primarily a function of commodity prices, including prices for alternative energy sources, customer usage rates, weather, economic conditions and service costs. our ability to compete also depends on a number of other factors, including competition from other companies for our existing customers, the efficiency, quality and reliability of the services we provide, and competition for throughput at oneok partners' gathering systems, pipelines, processing plants, fractionators and storage facilities. we cannot predict when we will be subject to changes in legislation or regulation, nor can we predict the impact of these changes on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. there are no assurances that our business will be positioned to effectively compete in the future. we may not be able to make additional strategic acquisitions. our ability to make strategic acquisitions and investments will depend on: (i) the extent to which acquisitions and investment opportunities become available; (ii) our success in bidding for the opportunities that do become available; (iii) regulatory approval, if required, of the acquisitions on favorable terms; and (iv) our access to capital, including our ability to use our equity in acquisitions or investments, and the terms upon which we obtain capital. if we are unable to make strategic investments and acquisitions, we may be unable to grow. 20 table of contents acquisitions that appear to be accretive may nevertheless reduce our cash from operations on a per-share basis. any acquisition involves potential risks that may include, among other things: inaccurate assumptions about volumes, revenues and costs, including potential synergies; an inability to integrate successfully the businesses we acquire; decrease in our liquidity as a result of our using a significant portion of our available cash or borrowing capacity to finance the acquisition; a significant increase in our interest expense or financial leverage if we incur additional debt to finance the acquisition; the assumption of unknown liabilities for which we are not indemnified, our indemnity is inadequate or our insurance policies may exclude from coverage; an inability to hire, train or retain qualified personnel to manage and operate the acquired business and assets; limitations on rights to indemnity from the seller; inaccurate assumptions about the overall costs of equity or debt; the diversion of management's and employees' attention from other business concerns; unforeseen difficulties operating in new product areas or new geographic areas; increased regulatory burdens; customer or key employee losses at an acquired business; and increased regulatory requirements. if we consummate any future acquisitions, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly, and investors will not have the opportunity to evaluate the economic, financial and other relevant information that we will consider in determining the application of our resources to future acquisitions. we may engage in acquisitions, divestitures and other strategic transactions, the success of which may impact our results of operations. we may engage in acquisitions, divestitures and other strategic transactions. if we are unable to integrate successfully businesses that we acquire with our existing business, our results of operations may be affected materially and adversely. similarly, we may from time to time divest portions of our business, which may also affect materially and adversely our results of operations. any reduction in our credit ratings could affect materially and adversely our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. our long-term senior unsecured debt has been assigned an investment-grade rating by s&amp;p of bbb (stable) and moody's of baa2 (stable); however, we cannot provide assurance that any of our current ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances in the future so warrant. specifically, if s&amp;p or moody's were to downgrade our long-term rating, particularly below investment grade, our borrowing costs would increase, which would affect adversely our financial results, and our potential pool of investors and funding sources could decrease. further, if our short-term ratings were to fall below a-2 or prime-2, the current ratings assigned by s&amp;p and moody's, respectively, it could limit significantly our access to the commercial paper market. any such downgrade of our long- or short-term ratings could increase significantly our cost of capital and reduce the availability of capital and, thus, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. ratings from credit agencies are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our securities. each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. a downgrade in our credit ratings below investment grade would affect negatively the operations of our energy services segment. if our credit ratings fall below investment grade, ratings triggers and/or adequate assurance clauses in many of our financial and wholesale physical contracts would be in effect. a ratings trigger or adequate assurance clause gives a counterparty the right to suspend or terminate the agreement unless margin thresholds are met. margin requirements related to the trading activities of our energy services segment may also increase as a result of market volatility without regard to our credit rating. the additional increase in capital required to support our energy services segment would impact materially and adversely our ability to compete, as well as our ability to manage actively the risk associated with existing storage and transportation contracts. 21 table of contents our established risk-management policies and procedures may not be effective, and employees may violate our risk management policies. we have developed and implemented a comprehensive set of policies and procedures that involve both our senior management and the audit committee of our board of directors to assist us in managing risks associated with, among other things, the marketing, trading and risk-management activities associated with our business segments. our risk policies and procedures are intended to align strategies, processes, people, information technology and business knowledge so that risk is managed throughout the organization. as conditions change and become more complex, current risk measures may fail to assess adequately the relevant risk due to changes in the market and the presence of risks previously unknown to us. additionally, if employees fail to adhere to our policies and procedures or if our policies and procedures are not effective, potentially because of future conditions or risks outside of our control, we may be exposed to greater risk than we had intended. ineffective risk-management policies and procedures or violation of risk-management policies and procedures could have an adverse affect on our earnings, financial position or cash flows. our indebtedness could impair our financial condition and our ability to fulfill our obligations. as of december 31, 2011, we had total indebtedness for borrowed money of approximately $1.8 billion, which excludes the debt of oneok partners. our indebtedness could have significant consequences. for example, it could: make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our senior notes and our other indebtedness due to the increased debt-service obligations, which could, in turn, result in an event of default on such other indebtedness or our senior notes; impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general business purposes; diminish our ability to withstand a downturn in our business or the economy; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to debt-service payments, reducing the availability of cash for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, or general corporate purposes; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared with our competitors that have proportionately less debt. we are not prohibited under the indentures governing our senior notes from incurring additional indebtedness, but our debt agreements do subject us to certain operational limitations summarized in the next paragraph. if we incur significant additional indebtedness, it could worsen the negative consequences mentioned above and could affect adversely our ability to repay our other indebtedness. our revolving debt agreements with banks contain provisions that restrict our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to expand or pursue our business activities. for example, certain of these agreements contain provisions that, among other things, limit our ability to make loans or investments, make material changes to the nature of our business, merge, consolidate or engage in asset sales, grant liens, or make negative pledges. certain agreements also require us to maintain certain financial ratios, which limit the amount of additional indebtedness we can incur, as described in the liquidity and capital resources section of item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation. these restrictions could result in higher costs of borrowing and impair our ability to generate additional cash. future financing agreements we may enter into may contain similar or more restrictive covenants. if we are unable to meet our debt-service obligations, we could be forced to restructure or refinance our indebtedness, seek additional equity capital or sell assets. we may be unable to obtain financing or sell assets on satisfactory terms, or at all. we are subject to comprehensive energy regulation by governmental agencies, and the recovery of our costs is dependent on regulatory action. we are subject to comprehensive regulation by several federal, state and municipal utility regulatory agencies, which significantly influences our operating environment and our ability to recover our costs from utility customers. the utility regulatory authorities in oklahoma, kansas and texas regulate many aspects of our utility operations, including customer service and the rates that we can charge customers. federal, state and local agencies also have jurisdiction over many of our other activities, including regulation by the ferc of our storage and interstate pipeline assets. the profitability of our regulated operations is dependent on our ability to pass through costs related to providing energy and other commodities to our customers by filing periodic rate cases. the regulatory environment applicable to our regulated businesses could impair our ability to recover costs historically absorbed by our customers. 22 table of contents we are unable to predict the impact that the future regulatory activities of these agencies will have on our operating results. changes in regulations or the imposition of additional regulations could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. further, the results of our ldcs' operations could be impacted negatively if the cost recovery mechanisms authorized by our rate cases do not function as anticipated. the adoption and implementation of new statutory and regulatory requirements for derivative transactions could have an adverse impact on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business and increase the working capital requirements to conduct these activities. in july 2010, the dodd-frank act was enacted, which provides for new statutory and regulatory requirements for certain swap transactions. certain financial transactions will be required to be cleared on exchanges, and cash collateral will be required for these transactions. however, the dodd-frank act provides for a potential exemption from these clearing and cash collateral requirements for commercial end-users and includes a number of defined terms that will be used in determining how this exemption applies to particular derivative transactions and to the parties to those transactions. additionally, the dodd-frank act calls for various regulatory agencies, including the sec and the cftc, to establish regulations for implementation of many of the provisions of the act. it also requires the cftc to establish new position trading limits. we expect to be able to continue to participate in financial markets for hedging certain risks inherent in our business, including commodity and interest-rate risks; however, the costs of doing so may increase as a result of the new legislation. we may also incur additional costs associated with our compliance with the new regulations and anticipated additional record-keeping, reporting and disclosure obligations. these requirements could affect adversely the liquidity and pricing of derivative contracts making it more difficult to execute our risk-management strategies in the future. also, the anticipated increased costs of compliance by dealers and counterparties will likely be passed on to customers, which could decrease the benefits of hedging to us and could reduce our profitability and liquidity. the volatility of natural gas prices may impact negatively ldc customers' perception of natural gas. natural gas costs are passed through to the customers of our ldcs based on the actual cost of the natural gas purchased by the particular ldc. substantial fluctuations in natural gas prices can occur from year to year. sustained periods of high natural gas prices or of pronounced natural gas price volatility may impact negatively our ldc customers' perception of natural gas, which could lead to customers selecting other energy alternatives, such as electricity, and to difficulties in the rate-making process. additionally, high natural gas prices may cause customers to conserve more and may also impact adversely our accounts receivable collections, resulting in higher bad-debt expense. our business is subject to regulatory oversight and potential penalties. the natural gas industry historically has been subject to heavy state and federal regulation that extends to many aspects of our businesses and operations, including: rates, operating terms and conditions of service; the types of services we may offer our customers; construction of new facilities; the integrity, safety and security of facilities and operations; acquisition, extension or abandonment of services or facilities; reporting and information posting requirements; maintenance of accounts and records; and relationships with affiliate companies involved in all aspects of the natural gas and energy businesses. compliance with these requirements can be costly and burdensome. future changes to laws, regulations and policies in these areas may impair our ability to compete for business or to recover costs and may increase the cost and burden of operations. we cannot guarantee that state or federal regulators will authorize any projects or acquisitions that we may propose in the future. moreover, there can be no guarantee that, if granted, any such authorizations will be made in a timely manner or will be free from potentially burdensome conditions. failure to comply with all applicable state or federal statutes, rules and regulations and orders, could bring substantial penalties and fines. for example, under the energy policy act of 2005, the ferc has civil penalty authority under the natural gas act to impose penalties for current violations of up to $1.0 million per day for each violation. 23 table of contents finally, we cannot give any assurance regarding future state or federal regulations under which we will operate or the effect such regulations could have on our business, financial condition and results of operations. demand for services of our natural gas distribution and energy services segments and for certain of oneok partners' products is highly weather sensitive and seasonal. the demand for natural gas in our natural gas distribution, energy services and oneok partners' segments and for certain of oneok partners' products, such as propane, is weather sensitive and seasonal, with a significant portion of revenues derived from sales for heating during the winter months. weather conditions influence directly the volume of, among other things, natural gas and propane delivered to customers. deviations in weather from normal levels and the seasonal nature of certain of our segments' business can create large variations in earnings and short-term cash requirements. compliance with environmental regulations that we are subject to may be difficult and costly. we are subject to multiple environmental laws and regulations affecting many aspects of present and future operations, including air emissions, water quality, wastewater discharges, solid and hazardous wastes and hazardous material and substance management. these laws and regulations generally require us to obtain and comply with a wide variety of environmental registrations, licenses, permits, inspections and other approvals. failure to comply with these laws, regulations, permits and licenses may expose us to fines, penalties and/or interruptions in our operations that could be material to our results of operations. if a leak or spill of hazardous substance occurs from our lines or facilities in the process of transporting natural gas or ngls or at any facility that we own, operate or otherwise use, we could be held jointly and severally liable for all resulting liabilities, including investigation and clean-up costs, which could affect materially our results of operations and cash flows. in addition, emission controls required under the federal clean air act and other similar federal and state laws could require unexpected capital expenditures at our facilities. in addition, the epa issued a rule on air-quality standards, national emission standards for hazardous air pollutants for reciprocating internal combustion engines, also known as rice neshap, with a compliance date in 2013. the rule will require capital expenditures over the next three years for the purchase and installation of new emissions-control equipment. we do not expect these expenditures to have a material impact on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. we cannot assure that existing environmental regulations will not be revised or that new regulations will not be adopted or become applicable to us. revised or additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, particularly if those costs are not fully recoverable from customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. for further discussion on this topic, see note q of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this annual report. we are subject to risks that could limit our access to capital, thereby increasing our costs and affecting adversely our results of operations. we have grown rapidly in the past as a result of acquisitions. future acquisitions may require additional capital. if we are not able to access capital at competitive rates, our strategy of enhancing the earnings potential of our existing assets, including through acquisitions of complementary assets or businesses, will be affected adversely. a number of factors could affect adversely our ability to access capital, including: (i) general economic conditions; (ii) capital market conditions; (iii) market prices for natural gas, ngls and other hydrocarbons; (iv) the overall health of the energy and related industries; (v) our ability to maintain our investment-grade credit ratings; and (vi) our capital structure. much of our business is capital intensive, and achievement of our long-term growth targets is dependent, at least in part, upon our ability to access capital at rates and on terms we determine to be attractive. if our ability to access capital becomes constrained significantly, our interest costs will likely increase and our financial condition and future results of operations could be harmed significantly. energy efficiency and technological advances may affect the demand for natural gas and affect adversely our operating results. the national trend toward increased conservation and technological advances, including installation of improved insulation and the development of more efficient furnaces and other heating devices, may decrease the demand for natural gas by residential customers. more strict conservation measures in the future or technological advances in heating, conservation, energy generation or other devices could affect adversely our operations. 24 table of contents the cost of providing pension and postretirement health care benefits to eligible employees and qualified retirees is subject to changes in pension fund values and changing demographics and may increase. we have a defined benefit pension plan for certain employees and postretirement welfare plans that provide postretirement medical and life insurance benefits to certain employees who retire with at least five years of service. the cost of providing these benefits to eligible current and former employees is subject to changes in the market value of our pension and postretirement benefit plan assets, changing demographics, including longer life expectancy of plan participants and their beneficiaries and changes in health care costs. for further discussion of our defined benefit pension plan, see note m of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this annual report. any sustained declines in equity markets and reductions in bond yields may have a material adverse effect on the value of our pension and postretirement benefit plan assets. in these circumstances, additional cash contributions to our pension plans may be required. our business could be affected adversely by strikes or work stoppages by our unionized employees. as of january 31, 2012, 694 of our 4,795 employees were represented by collective bargaining units under collective bargaining agreements. we are involved periodically in discussions with collective bargaining units representing some of our employees to negotiate or renegotiate labor agreements. we cannot predict the results of these negotiations, including whether any failure to reach new agreements will have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations or whether we will be able to reach any agreement with the collective bargaining units. any failure to reach agreement on new labor contracts might result in a work stoppage. any future work stoppage could, depending on the operations and the length of the work stoppage, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of certain operations. we may face significant costs to comply with the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions. greenhouse gas emissions originate primarily from combustion engine exhaust, heater exhaust and fugitive methane gas emissions. various federal and state legislative proposals have been introduced to regulate the emission of greenhouse gases, particularly carbon dioxide and methane, and the united states supreme court has ruled that carbon dioxide is a pollutant subject to regulation by the epa. in addition, there have been international efforts seeking legally binding reductions in emissions of greenhouse gases. we believe it is possible that future governmental legislation and/or regulation may require us either to limit greenhouse gas emissions from our operations or to purchase allowances for such emissions that are actually attributable to our distribution customers or attributable to ngl customers of oneok partners. however, we cannot predict precisely what form these future regulations will take, the stringency of the regulations, or when they will become effective. several legislative bills have been introduced in the united states congress that would require carbon dioxide emission reductions. previously considered proposals have included, among other things, limitations on the amount of greenhouse gases that can be emitted (so called caps ) together with systems of emissions allowances. this system could require us to reduce emissions, even though the technology is not currently available for efficient reduction, or to purchase allowances for such emissions. emissions also could be taxed independently of limits. in addition to activities on the federal level, state and regional initiatives could also lead to the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions sooner and/or independent of federal regulation. these regulations could be more stringent than any federal regulation or legislation that is adopted. future legislation and/or regulation designed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions could make some of our activities uneconomic to maintain or operate. further, we may not be able to pass on the higher costs to our customers or recover all costs related to complying with greenhouse gas regulatory requirements. our future results of operations, cash flows or financial condition could be adversely affected if such costs are not recovered through regulated rates or otherwise passed on to our customers. we continue to monitor legislative and regulatory developments in this area. although the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions may have a material impact on our operations and rates, we are unable to quantify the potential costs of the impacts at this time. 25 table of contents we do not hedge fully against commodity price changes, time differentials or locational differentials. this could result in decreased revenues and increased costs, thereby resulting in lower margins and adversely affecting our results of operations. certain of our nonregulated and regulated businesses are exposed to market risk and the impact of market price fluctuations of natural gas, ngls and crude oil. market risk refers to the risk of loss of cash flows and future earnings arising from adverse changes in commodity prices. our energy services segment's primary exposures arise from seasonal and locational price differentials and our ability to execute hedges. our oneok partners segment's primary exposures arise from the value of the ngl and natural gas it receives in exchange for the natural gas gathering and processing services it provides; the differentials between commodity prices with respect to its keep-whole contracts and the differentials between ngl and natural gas prices and their impact on our natural gas and ngl transportation, fractionation and exchange throughputs; the differentials between the individual ngl products; differentials between ngl prices at different locations; the seasonal differentials impacting the volume of natural gas and ngls stored; and the fuel costs and the value of the retained fuel in-kind in oneok partners' natural gas pipelines and storage operations. our oneok partners and energy services segments are also exposed to the risk of changing prices or the cost of transportation resulting from purchasing natural gas or ngls at one location and selling it at another (referred to as basis risk). to minimize the risk from market price fluctuations of natural gas, ngls and crude oil, we use physical forward transactions and commodity derivative instruments such as futures contracts, swaps and options to manage market risk of existing or anticipated purchases and sales of natural gas, ngls and crude oil. we adhere to policies and procedures that monitor our exposure to market risk from open positions. however, we do not hedge fully against commodity price changes, and therefore, we retain some exposure to market risk. accordingly, any adverse changes to commodity prices could result in decreased revenue and/or increased costs. our natural gas distribution segment uses storage to minimize the volatility of natural gas costs for our customers by storing natural gas in periods of low demand for consumption in peak demand periods. in addition, various natural gas supply contracts allow us the option to convert index-based purchases to fixed prices. also, we use derivative instruments to hedge the cost of anticipated natural gas purchases during the winter heating months to protect customers from upward volatility in the market price of natural gas. federal, state and local jurisdictions may challenge our tax return positions. the positions taken in our federal and state tax return filings require significant judgments, use of estimates and the interpretation and application of complex tax laws. significant judgment is also required in assessing the timing and amounts of deductible and taxable items. despite management's belief that our tax return positions are fully supportable, certain positions may be successfully challenged by federal, state and local jurisdictions. although we control oneok partners, we may have conflicts of interest with oneok partners that could subject us to claims that we have breached our fiduciary duty to oneok partners and its unitholders. we are the sole general partner and own 42.8 percent of oneok partners. conflicts of interest may arise between us and oneok partners and its unitholders. in resolving these conflicts, we may favor our own interests and the interests of our affiliates over the interests of oneok partners and its unitholders as long as the resolution does not conflict with the oneok partners' partnership agreement or our fiduciary duties to oneok partners and its unitholders. we are subject to physical and financial risks associated with climate change. there is a growing belief that emissions of greenhouse gases may be linked to global climate change. climate change creates physical and financial risk. our customers' energy needs vary with weather conditions, primarily temperature and humidity. for residential customers, heating and cooling represent their largest energy use. to the extent weather conditions may be affected by climate change, customers' energy use could increase or decrease depending on the duration and magnitude of any changes. increased energy use due to weather changes may require us to invest in more pipelines and other infrastructure to serve increased demand. a decrease in energy use due to weather changes may affect our financial condition, through decreased revenues. extreme weather conditions in general require more system backup, adding to costs, and can contribute to increased system stresses, including service interruptions. weather conditions outside of our operating territory could also have an impact on our revenues. severe weather impacts our operating territories primarily through hurricanes, thunderstorms, tornadoes and snow or ice storms. to the extent the frequency of extreme weather events increases, this could increase our cost of providing service. we may not be able to pass on the higher costs to our customers or recover all the costs related to mitigating these physical risks. to the extent financial markets view climate change and emissions of greenhouse gases as a financial risk, this could affect negatively our ability to access capital markets or cause us to receive less favorable terms and conditions in future financings. our business could be affected by the potential for lawsuits against greenhouse gas emitters, based on links drawn between greenhouse gas emissions and climate change. 26 table of contents both our and oneok partners' operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions, which could affect materially and adversely our and oneok partners' business and for which neither we nor oneok partners may be insured adequately. our and oneok partners' operations are subject to all of the risks and hazards typically associated with the operation of natural gas and natural gas liquids gathering, transportation and distribution pipelines, storage facilities and processing and fractionation plants. operating risks include, but are not limited to, leaks, pipeline ruptures, the breakdown or failure of equipment or processes, and the performance of pipeline facilities below expected levels of capacity and efficiency. other operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions include adverse weather conditions, accidents, explosions, fires, the collision of equipment with our or oneok partners' pipeline facilities (for example, this may occur if a third party were to perform excavation or construction work near our or oneok partners' facilities) and catastrophic events such as tornados, hurricanes, earthquakes, floods or other similar events beyond our or oneok partners' control. it is also possible that our or oneok partners' facilities could be direct targets or indirect casualties of an act of terrorism. a casualty occurrence might result in injury or loss of life, extensive property damage or environmental damage. liabilities incurred and interruptions to the operations of our or oneok partners' pipelines or other facilities caused by such an event could reduce revenues generated by us or oneok partners and increase expenses, thereby impairing our or oneok partners' ability to meet our respective obligations. insurance proceeds may not be adequate to cover all liabilities or expenses incurred or revenues lost, and neither we nor oneok partners are fully insured against all risks inherent in our respective businesses. as a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain insurance policies can increase substantially, and, in some instances, certain insurance may become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. consequently, neither we nor oneok partners may be able to renew existing insurance policies or purchase other desirable insurance on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. if either we or oneok partners were to incur a significant liability for which either we or oneok partners was not insured fully, it could have a material adverse effect on our or oneok partners' financial position and results of operations. further, the proceeds of any such insurance may not be paid in a timely manner and may be insufficient if such an event were to occur. our use of financial instruments to hedge market risk may result in reduced income. we utilize financial instruments to mitigate our exposure to commodity price and interest-rate fluctuations. hedging arrangements that are used to reduce our exposure to commodity price fluctuations may limit the benefit we would otherwise receive if market prices for natural gas, crude oil and ngls exceed the stated price in the hedge instrument for these commodities. hedging instruments that are used to reduce our exposure to interest-rate fluctuations could expose us to risk of financial loss where we have contracted for variable-rate swap instruments to hedge fixed-rate instruments and the variable rate exceeds the fixed rate. in addition, these hedging arrangements may limit the benefit we would otherwise receive if we had contracted for fixed-rate swap agreements to hedge variable-rate instruments and the variable rate falls below the fixed rate. a failure in our operational systems or cyber security attacks on any of our facilities, or those of third parties, may affect adversely our financial results. our businesses are dependent upon our operational systems to process a large amount of data and complex transactions. if any of our financial, operational, or other data processing systems fail or have other significant shortcomings, our financial results could be affected adversely. our financial results could also be affected adversely if an employee causes our operational systems to fail, either as a result of inadvertent error or by deliberately tampering with or manipulating our operational systems. in addition, dependence upon automated systems may further increase the risk that operational system flaws, employee tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect. due to increased technology advances, we have become more reliant on technology to help increase efficiency in our businesses. we use computer programs to help run our financial and operations sectors, and this may subject our business to increased risks. any future cyber security attacks that affect our facilities, our customers and any financial data could have a material adverse on our businesses. in addition, cyber attacks on our customer and employee data may result in a financial loss and may impact negatively our reputation. third-party systems on which we rely could also suffer operational system failure. any of these occurrences could disrupt one or more of our businesses, result in potential liability or reputational damage or otherwise have an adverse affect on our financial results. 27 table of contents increases in interest rates could affect adversely our business. we use both fixed- and variable-rate debt, and we are exposed to market risk due to the floating interest rates on our short-term borrowings. from time to time we use interest-rate derivatives to hedge interest obligations on specific debt issuances, including anticipated debt issuances. these hedges may be ineffective, and our results of operations, cash flows and financial position could be affected adversely by significant increases in interest rates above current levels. we do not own all of the land on which our pipelines and facilities are located, and we lease certain facilities and equipment, which could disrupt our operations. we do not own all of the land on which certain of our pipelines and facilities are located, and are, therefore, subject to the risk of increased costs to maintain necessary land use. we obtain the rights to construct and operate certain of our pipelines and related facilities on land owned by third parties and governmental agencies for a specific period of time. our loss of these rights, through our inability to renew right-of-way contracts on acceptable terms or increased costs to renew such rights, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. a shortage of skilled labor may make it difficult for us to maintain labor productivity and competitive costs, which could affect operations and cash flows available for distribution. our operations require skilled and experienced workers with proficiency in multiple tasks. in recent years, a shortage of workers trained in various skills associated with the midstream energy business has caused us to conduct certain operations without full staff, thus hiring outside resources, which may decrease productivity and increase costs. this shortage of trained workers is the result of experienced workers reaching retirement age, and increased competition for workers in certain areas, combined with the difficulty of attracting new workers to the midstream energy industry. this shortage of skilled labor could continue over an extended period. if the shortage of experienced labor continues or worsens, it could have an adverse impact on labor productivity and costs and our ability to expand production in the event there is an increase in the demand for our products and services, which could adversely affect operations and cash flows available for distribution to unitholders. pipeline-integrity programs and repairs may impose significant costs and liabilities. pursuant to a united states department of transportation rule, pipeline operators are required to develop integrity-management programs for intrastate and interstate natural gas and natural gas liquids pipelines that could affect high-consequence areas in the event of a release of product. as defined by applicable regulations, high-consequence areas include areas near the route of a pipeline with high population densities, facilities occupied by persons of limited mobility or indoor or outdoor areas where at least twenty people gather periodically. the rule requires operators to identify to pipeline segments that could impact a high-consequence area; improve data collection, integration and characterization of threats applicable to each segment, implement preventive and mitigating actions, perform ongoing assessments of pipeline integrity and repair and remediate as necessary. these testing programs could cause us and oneok partners to incur significant capital and operating expenditures to make repairs or remediate, as well as initiate preventive or mitigating actions that are determined to be necessary. we are subject to strict regulations at many of our facilities regarding employee safety, and failure to comply with these regulations could affect adversely financial results. the workplaces associated with our facilities are subject to the requirements of osha and comparable state statutes that regulate the protection of the health and safety of workers. the failure to comply with osha requirements or general industry standards, including keeping adequate records or occupational exposure to regulated substances could expose us to civil or criminal liability, enforcement actions, and regulatory fines and penalties and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flow. measurement adjustments on our pipeline system can be impacted materially by changes in estimation, type of commodity and other factors. natural gas and natural gas liquids measurement adjustments occur as part of the normal operating conditions associated with our assets. the quantification and resolution of measurement adjustments are complicated by several factors including: (1) the significant quantities ( i.e ., thousands) of measurement meters that we use throughout our natural gas systems; (2) varying qualities of natural gas in the streams gathered and processed and the mixed nature of ngls gathered and fractionated through oneok partners' systems; and (3) variances in measurement that are inherent in metering technologies. each of these factors may contribute to measurement adjustments that can occur on our systems, which could affect negatively our earnings and cash flows. 28 table of contents additional risk factors related to oneok partners' business the volatility of natural gas, crude oil and ngl prices could affect adversely oneok partners' cash flow. a significant portion of oneok partners' revenues are derived from the sale of commodities that are received as payment for natural gas gathering and processing services, for the transportation and storage of natural gas, and for the sale of purity ngl products in oneok partners' natural gas liquids business. commodity prices have been volatile and are likely to continue to be so in the future. the prices oneok partners receives for its commodities are subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors beyond oneok partners' control, including, but not limited to, the following: overall domestic and global economic conditions; relatively minor changes in the supply of, and demand for, domestic and foreign energy; market uncertainty; the availability and cost of third-party transportation, natural gas processing and natural gas liquids fractionation capacity; the level of consumer product demand; geopolitical conditions impacting supply and demand for natural gas, ngls and crude oil; weather conditions; domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; the price and availability of alternative fuels; speculation in the commodity futures markets; overall domestic and global economic conditions; the price of natural gas, crude oil, ngl and liquefied natural gas imports and exports; the effect of worldwide energy conservation measures; and the impact of new supplies, new pipelines, processing and fractionation facilities on location price differentials. these external factors and the volatile nature of the energy markets make it difficult to estimate reliably future prices of commodities and the impact commodity price fluctuations have on our customers and their need for our services. as commodity prices decline, oneok partners is paid less for its commodities, thereby reducing its cash flow. in addition, production could also decline. oneok partners' inability to develop and execute growth projects and acquire new assets could result in reduced cash distributions to its unitholders and to oneok. oneok partners' primary business objectives are to generate cash flow sufficient to pay quarterly cash distributions to unitholders and to increase quarterly cash distributions over time. oneok partners' ability to maintain and grow its distributions to unitholders, including oneok, depends on the growth of its existing businesses and strategic acquisitions. accordingly, if oneok partners is unable to implement business development opportunities and finance such activities on economically acceptable terms, its future growth will be limited, which could adversely impact its and our results of operations and cash flows. growing oneok partners' business by constructing new pipelines and plants or making modifications to its existing facilities subjects oneok partners to construction risks and supply risks should adequate natural gas or ngl supplies be unavailable upon completion of the facilities. one of the ways oneok partners intends to grow its business is through the construction of new pipelines and new gathering, processing, storage and fractionation facilities and through modifications to oneok partners' existing pipelines and existing gathering, processing, storage and fractionation facilities. the construction and modification of pipelines and gathering, processing, storage and fractionation facilities may require significant capital expenditures, which may exceed oneok partners' estimates, and involves numerous regulatory, environmental, political, legal and weather-related uncertainties. construction projects in oneok partners' industry may increase demand for labor, materials and rights of way, which, may, in turn, impact oneok partners' costs and schedule. if oneok partners undertakes these projects, it may not be able to complete them on schedule or at the budgeted cost. additionally, oneok partners' revenues may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project. for instance, if oneok partners builds a new pipeline, the construction will occur over an extended period of time, and oneok partners will not receive any material increases in revenues until after completion of the project. oneok partners may have only limited natural gas or ngl supplies committed to these facilities prior to their construction. additionally, oneok partners may construct facilities to capture anticipated future growth in production in a region in which anticipated production growth does not materialize. oneok partners may also rely on estimates of proved reserves in its decision to construct new pipelines and facilities, which 29 table of contents may prove to be inaccurate because there are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves. as a result, new facilities may not be able to attract enough natural gas or ngls to achieve oneok partners' expected investment return, which could affect materially and adversely oneok partners' results of operations and financial condition. if the level of drilling and production in the mid-continent, rocky mountain, texas and gulf coast regions declines substantially near its assets, oneok partners' volumes and revenue could decline. oneok partners' ability to maintain or expand its businesses depends largely on the level of drilling and production by third parties in the mid-continent, rocky mountain, texas and gulf coast regions. drilling and production are impacted by factors beyond oneok partners' control, including: demand and prices for natural gas, ngls and crude oil; producers' finding and developing costs of reserves; producers' desire and ability to obtain necessary permits in a timely and economic manner; natural gas field characteristics and production performance; surface access and infrastructure issues; and capacity constraints on natural gas, crude oil and natural gas liquids pipelines from the producing areas and oneok partners' facilities. if production from the western canada sedimentary basin remains flat or declines, and demand for natural gas from the western canada sedimentary basin is greater in market areas other than the midwestern united states, demand for oneok partners' interstate gas transportation services could decrease significantly. oneok partners depends on natural gas supply from the western canada sedimentary basin for some of oneok partners' interstate pipelines, primarily viking gas transmission and oneok partners' investment in northern border pipeline, that transport canadian natural gas from the western canada sedimentary basin to the midwestern united states market area. if demand for natural gas increases in canada or other markets not served by oneok partners' interstate pipelines and/or production remains flat or declines, demand for transportation service on oneok partners' interstate natural gas pipelines could decrease significantly, which could impact adversely oneok partners' results of operations and cash flows available for distributions. oneok partners' regulated pipelines' transportation rates are subject to review and possible adjustment by federal and state regulators. under the natural gas act, which is applicable to interstate natural gas pipelines, and the interstate commerce act, which is applicable to crude oil and natural gas liquids pipelines, oneok partners' interstate transportation rates, which are regulated by the ferc, must be just and reasonable and not unduly discriminatory. shippers may protest oneok partners' pipeline tariff filings, and the ferc and/or state regulatory agencies may investigate tariff rates. further, the ferc may order refunds of amounts collected under newly filed rates that are determined by the ferc to be in excess of a just and reasonable level. in addition, shippers may challenge by complaint the lawfulness of tariff rates that have become final and effective. the ferc and/or state regulatory agencies may also investigate tariff rates absent shipper complaint. any finding that approved rates exceed a just and reasonable level on the natural gas pipelines would take effect prospectively. in a complaint proceeding challenging natural gas liquids pipeline rates, if the ferc determines existing rates exceed a just and reasonable level, it could require the payment of reparations to complaining shippers for up to two years prior to the complaint. any such action by the ferc or a comparable action by a state regulatory agency could affect adversely oneok partners' pipeline businesses' ability to charge rates that would cover future increases in costs, or even to continue to collect rates that cover current costs and provide for a reasonable return. we can provide no assurance that oneok partners' pipeline systems will be able to recover all of their costs through existing or future rates. oneok partners' regulated pipeline companies have recorded certain assets that may not be recoverable from its customers. accounting policies for ferc-regulated companies permit certain assets that result from the regulated ratemaking process to be recorded on oneok partners' balance sheet that could not be recorded under gaap for nonregulated entities. oneok partners considers factors such as regulatory changes and the impact of competition to determine the probability of future recovery of these assets. if oneok partners determines future recovery is no longer probable, oneok partners would be required to write off the regulatory assets at that time. 30 table of contents oneok partners' operations are subject to federal and state laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, which may expose it to significant costs and liabilities. the risk of incurring substantial environmental costs and liabilities is inherent in oneok partners' business. oneok partners' operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into, or otherwise relating to the protection of, the environment. examples of these laws include: the clean air act and analogous state laws that impose obligations related to air emissions; the clean water act and analogous state laws that regulate discharge of waste water from oneok partners' facilities to state and federal waters; the federal cercla and analogous state laws that regulate the cleanup of hazardous substances that may have been released at properties currently or previously owned or operated by oneok partners or locations to which oneok partners has sent waste for disposal; the federal resource conservation and recovery act and analogous state laws that impose requirements for the handling and discharge of solid and hazardous waste from oneok partners' facilities; and the epa has issued a rule on air-quality standards, known as rice neshap, with a compliance date in 2013. various federal and state governmental authorities, including the epa, have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them. violators are subject to administrative, civil and criminal penalties, including civil fines, injunctions or both. joint and several, strict liability may be incurred without regard to fault under the cercla, resource conservation and recovery act and analogous state laws for the remediation of contaminated areas. there is an inherent risk of incurring environmental costs and liabilities in oneok partners' business due to its handling of the products it gathers, transports, processes and stores, air emissions related to its operations, past industry operations and waste disposal practices, some of which may be material. private parties, including the owners of properties through which oneok partners' pipeline systems pass, may have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as to seek damages for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage arising from oneok partners' operations. some sites oneok partners operates are located near current or former third-party hydrocarbon storage and processing operations, and there is a risk that contamination has migrated from those sites to oneok partners' sites. in addition, increasingly strict laws, regulations and enforcement policies could increase significantly oneok partners' compliance costs and the cost of any remediation that may become necessary, some of which may be material. additional information is included under item 1, business under environmental and safety matters and in note q of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this annual report. oneok partners' insurance may not cover all environmental risks and costs or may not provide sufficient coverage in the event an environmental claim is made against oneok partners. oneok partners' business may be affected materially and adversely by increased costs due to stricter pollution-control requirements or liabilities resulting from noncompliance with required operating or other regulatory permits. new environmental regulations might also materially adversely affect oneok partners' products and activities, and federal and state agencies could impose additional safety requirements, all of which could affect materially oneok partners' profitability. in the competition for customers, oneok partners may have significant levels of uncontracted or discounted capacity on its natural gas and natural gas liquids pipelines, processing, fractionation and storage assets. oneok partners' natural gas and natural gas liquids pipelines, processing, fractionation and storage assets compete with other pipelines, processing, fractionation and storage facilities for natural gas and ngl supplies delivered to the markets it serves. as a result of competition, at any given time oneok partners may have significant levels of uncontracted or discounted capacity on its pipelines, processing, fractionation and in its storage assets, which could have a material adverse impact on oneok partners' results of operations. oneok partners is exposed to the credit risk of its customers or counterparties, and its credit risk management may not be adequate to protect against such risk. oneok partners is subject to the risk of loss resulting from nonpayment and/or nonperformance by oneok partners' customers or counterparties. oneok partners' customers or counterparties may experience rapid deterioration of their financial condition as a result of changing market conditions or financial difficulties that could impact their creditworthiness or ability to pay oneok partners for its services. oneok partners assesses the creditworthiness of its customers or counterparties and obtains collateral as it deems appropriate. if oneok partners fails to assess adequately the creditworthiness of existing or future customers or counterparties, unanticipated deterioration in their creditworthiness and any resulting nonpayment and/or nonperformance could adversely impact oneok partners' results of operations. in 31 table of contents addition, if any of oneok partners' customers or counterparties files for bankruptcy protection, this could have a material negative impact on oneok partners' results of operations. any reduction in oneok partners' credit ratings could affect materially and adversely its business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. oneok partners' senior unsecured long-term debt has been assigned an investment-grade rating by moody's of baa2 (stable) and by s&amp;p of bbb (stable); however, we cannot provide assurance that any of its current ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances in the future so warrant. specifically, if moody's or s&amp;p were to downgrade oneok partners' long-term debt rating, particularly below investment grade, its borrowing costs would increase, which would affect adversely its financial results, and its potential pool of investors and funding sources could decrease. ratings from credit agencies are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold oneok partners' securities. each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. an event of default may require oneok partners to offer to repurchase certain of its senior notes or may impair its ability to access capital. the indentures governing oneok partners' senior notes include an event of default upon the acceleration of other indebtedness of $100 million or more. such events of default would entitle the trustee or the holders of 25 percent in aggregate principal amount of oneok partners' outstanding senior notes to declare those senior notes immediately due and payable in full. oneok partners may not have sufficient cash on hand to repurchase and repay any accelerated senior notes, which may cause oneok partners to borrow money under its credit facilities or seek alternative financing sources to finance the repurchases and repayment. oneok partners could also face difficulties accessing capital or its borrowing costs could increase, impacting its ability to obtain financing for acquisitions or capital expenditures, to refinance indebtedness and to fulfill its debt obligations. oneok partners has adopted certain valuation methodologies that may result in a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between the general partner and the unitholders. the irs may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of its limited partner units. when oneok partners issues additional units or engages in certain other transactions, oneok partners determines the fair market value of its assets and allocates any unrealized gain or loss attributable to its assets to the capital accounts of its unitholders and its general partner. oneok partners' methodology may be viewed as understating the value of its assets. in that case, there may be a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between certain unitholders and the general partner, which may be unfavorable to such unitholders. moreover, under oneok partners' current valuation methods, subsequent purchasers of common units may have a greater portion of their internal revenue code section 743(b) adjustment allocated to oneok partners' tangible assets and a lesser portion allocated to oneok partners' intangible assets. the irs may challenge oneok partners' valuation methods or oneok partners' allocation of the section 743(b) adjustment attributable to oneok partners' tangible and intangible assets, and allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction between the general partner and certain of oneok partners' unitholders. a successful irs challenge to these methods or allocations could affect adversely the amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to oneok partners' unitholders. it also could affect the amount of gain from oneok partners unitholders' sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to oneok partners unitholders' tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions. oneok partners' treatment of a purchaser of common units as having the same tax benefits as the seller could be challenged, resulting in a reduction in value of the common units. because oneok partners cannot match transferors and transferees of common units, oneok partners is required to maintain the uniformity of the economic and tax characteristics of these units in the hands of the purchasers and sellers of these units. oneok partners does so by adopting certain depreciation conventions that do not conform to all aspects of existing united states treasury regulations. a successful irs challenge to these conventions could affect adversely the tax benefits to a unitholder of ownership of the common units and could have a negative impact on their value or result in audit adjustments to oneok partners unitholders' tax returns. 32 table of contents increased regulation of exploration and production activities, including hydraulic fracturing, could result in reductions or delays in drilling and completing new oil and natural gas wells, which could impact adversely oneok partners' revenues by decreasing the volumes of unprocessed natural gas transported on its or its joint ventures natural gas pipelines. the natural gas industry is relying increasingly on natural gas supplies from unconventional sources, such as shale, tight sands and coal-bed methane gas. natural gas extracted from these sources frequently requires hydraulic fracturing, which involves the pressurized injection of water, sand, and chemicals into the geologic formation to stimulate natural gas production. recently, there have been initiatives at the federal and state levels to regulate or otherwise restrict the use of hydraulic fracturing, and several states have adopted regulations that impose more stringent permitting, disclosure and well-completion requirements on hydraulic fracturing operations. legislation or regulations placing restrictions on hydraulic fracturing activities could impose operational delays, increased operating costs and additional regulatory burdens on exploration and production operators, which could reduce their production of unprocessed natural gas and, in turn, adversely affect oneok partners' revenues and results of operations by decreasing the volumes of unprocessed natural gas gathered, treated, processed and transported on oneok partners' or its joint ventures' natural gas pipelines, several of which gather unprocessed natural gas from areas where the use of hydraulic fracturing is prevalent. continued development of new supply sources could impact demand. the discovery of nontraditional natural gas production areas nearer to certain of the market areas that we serve may compete with natural gas originating in production areas connected to our systems. for example, the marcellus shale in pennsylvania, new york, west virginia and ohio, may cause natural gas in supply areas connected to our systems to be diverted to markets other than our traditional market areas and may affect capacity utilization adversely on our pipeline systems and our ability to renew or replace existing contracts at rates sufficient to maintain current revenues and cash flows. in addition, supply volumes from these nontraditional natural gas production areas may compete with and displace volumes from the mid-continent, rocky mountains and canadian supply sources in certain of our markets. the displacement of natural gas originating in supply areas connected to our pipeline systems by these new supply sources that are closer to the end-use markets could result in lower transportation revenues, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. an impairment of goodwill, long-lived assets, including intangible assets, and equity-method investments could reduce our earnings. goodwill is recorded when the purchase price of a business exceeds the fair market value of the tangible and separately measurable intangible net assets. gaap require us to test goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives for impairment on an annual basis or when events or circumstances occur indicating that goodwill might be impaired. long-lived assets, including intangible assets with finite useful lives, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. for the investments we account for under the equity method, the impairment test considers whether the fair value of the equity investment as a whole, not the underlying net assets, has declined and whether that decline is other than temporary. if we determine that an impairment is indicated, we would be required to take an immediate noncash charge to earnings with a correlative effect on equity and balance sheet leverage as measured by debt to total capitalization. a court may use fraudulent conveyance considerations to avoid or subordinate oneok partners intermediate limited partnership's guarantee of certain of oneok partners' senior notes. various applicable fraudulent conveyance laws have been enacted for the protection of creditors. a court may use fraudulent conveyance laws to subordinate or avoid the guarantee of certain of oneok partners' senior notes issued by oneok partners intermediate limited partnership. it is also possible that under certain circumstances, a court could hold that the direct obligations of the intermediate partnership could be superior to the obligations under that guarantee. a court could avoid or subordinate the intermediate partnership's guarantee of certain of oneok partners' senior notes in favor of the intermediate partnership's other debts or liabilities to the extent that the court determined either of the following were true at the time the intermediate partnership issued the guarantee: the intermediate partnership incurred the guarantee with the intent to hinder, delay or defraud any of its present or future creditors or the intermediate partnership contemplated insolvency with a design to favor one or more creditors to the total or partial exclusion of others; or the intermediate partnership did not receive fair consideration or reasonable equivalent value for issuing the guarantee and, at the time it issued the guarantee, the intermediate partnership: - was insolvent or rendered insolvent by reason of the issuance of the guarantee; 33 table of contents - was engaged or about to engage in a business or transaction for which its remaining assets constituted unreasonably small capital; or - intended to incur, or believed that it would incur, debts beyond its ability to pay such debts as they matured. the measure of insolvency for purposes of the foregoing will vary depending upon the law of the relevant jurisdiction. generally, however, an entity would be considered insolvent for purposes of the foregoing if: the sum of its debts, including contingent liabilities, were greater than the fair saleable value of all of its assets at a fair valuation; the present fair saleable value of its assets was less than the amount that would be required to pay its probable liability on its existing debts, including contingent liabilities, as they become absolute and mature; or it could not pay its debts as they become due. among other things, a legal challenge of the intermediate partnership's guarantee of certain of oneok partners' senior notes on fraudulent conveyance grounds may focus on the benefits, if any, realized by the intermediate partnership as a result of oneok partners' issuance of such senior notes. to the extent the intermediate partnership's guarantee of certain of oneok partners' senior notes is avoided as a result of fraudulent conveyance or held unenforceable for any other reason, the holders of such senior notes would cease to have any claim in respect of the guarantee. oneok partners may be unable to cause its joint ventures to take or not to take certain actions unless some or all of its joint-venture participants agree. oneok partners participates in several joint ventures. due to the nature of some of these arrangements, each participant in these joint ventures has made substantial investments in the joint venture and, accordingly, has required that the relevant charter documents contain certain features designed to provide each participant with the opportunity to participate in the management of the joint venture and to protect its investment, as well as any other assets which may be substantially dependent on or otherwise affected by the activities of that joint venture. these participation and protective features customarily include a corporate governance structure that requires at least a majority-in-interest vote to authorize many basic activities and requires a greater voting interest (sometimes up to 100 percent) to authorize more significant activities. examples of these more significant activities are large expenditures or contractual commitments, the construction or acquisition of assets, borrowing money or otherwise raising capital, transactions with affiliates of a joint-venture participant, litigation and transactions not in the ordinary course of business, among others. thus, without the concurrence of joint-venture participants with enough voting interests, oneok partners may be unable to cause any of its joint ventures to take or not to take certain actions, even though those actions may be in the best interest of oneok partners or the particular joint venture. moreover, any joint-venture owner generally may sell, transfer or otherwise modify its ownership interest in a joint venture, whether in a transaction involving third parties or the other joint-venture owners. any such transaction could result in oneok partners being required to partner with different or additional parties. oneok partners' operating cash flow is derived partially from cash distributions it receives from its unconsolidated affiliates. oneok partners' operating cash flow is derived partially from cash distributions it receives from its unconsolidated affiliates, as discussed in note o of the notes to consolidated financial statements. the amount of cash that oneok partners' unconsolidated affiliates can distribute principally depends upon the amount of cash flow these affiliates generate from their respective operations, which may fluctuate from quarter to quarter. oneok partners does not have any direct control over the cash distribution policies of its unconsolidated affiliates. this lack of control may contribute to oneok partners' not having sufficient available cash each quarter to continue paying distributions at its current levels. additionally, the amount of cash that oneok partners has available for cash distribution depends primarily upon its cash flow, including cash flow from financial reserves and working capital borrowings, and is not solely a function of profitability, which will be affected by noncash items such as depreciation, amortization and provisions for asset impairments. as a result, oneok partners may be able to make cash distributions during periods when it records losses and may not be able to make cash distributions during periods when it records net income. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 68-71 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk policy and oversight - we control the scope of risk management, marketing and trading operations through a comprehensive set of policies and procedures involving senior levels of management. the audit committee of our board of directors has oversight responsibilities for our risk-management limits and policies. our risk oversight committee, comprised of corporate and business-segment officers, oversees all activities related to commodity price and credit risk management, and marketing and trading activities. the committee also monitors risk metrics including value-at-risk (var) and mark-to-market losses. we have a risk control group that is assigned responsibility for establishing and enforcing the policies and procedures and monitoring certain risk metrics. key risk control activities include risk measurement and monitoring, validation of transactions, portfolio valuation, var and other risk metrics. our exposure to market risk discussed below includes forward-looking statements and represents an estimate of possible changes in future earnings that would occur assuming hypothetical future movements in interest rates or commodity prices. our views on market risk are not necessarily indicative of actual results that may occur and do not represent the maximum possible gains and losses that may occur since actual gains and losses will differ from those estimated based on actual fluctuations in interest rates or commodity prices and the timing of transactions. commodity price risk we are exposed to commodity price risk and the impact of market price fluctuations of natural gas, ngls and crude oil. commodity price risk refers to the risk of loss in cash flows and future earnings arising from adverse changes in energy prices. to minimize the risk from market price fluctuations of natural gas, ngls and crude oil, we use commodity derivative instruments such as futures, physical forward contracts, swaps and options to manage commodity price risk associated with existing or anticipated purchase and sale agreements, existing physical natural gas in storage and basis risk. oneok partners oneok partners is exposed to commodity price risk as a result of receiving commodities in exchange for its natural gas gathering and processing services. to a lesser extent, oneok partners is exposed to the relative price differential between ngls and natural gas, or the gross processing spread, with respect to its keep-whole contracts. oneok partners is also exposed to the risk of location price differentials and the cost of third-party transportation to various market locations. as part of oneok partners' hedging strategy, oneok partners uses commodity fixed-price physical forwards and derivative contracts, including nymex-based futures and over-the-counter swaps, to minimize earnings volatility in its natural gas gathering and processing business related to natural gas, ngl and condensate price fluctuations. oneok partners reduces its gross processing spread exposure through a combination of physical and financial hedges. oneok partners utilizes a portion of its percent-of-proceeds equity natural gas as an offset, or natural hedge, to an equivalent portion of its keep-whole shrink requirements. this has the effect of converting oneok partners' gross processing spread risk to ngl commodity price risk, and oneok partners then uses financial instruments to hedge the sale of ngls. as of december 31, 2011, oneok partners had $33.7 million of commodity-related derivative assets and $3.8 million of commodity-related derivative liabilities, excluding the impact of netting. the following tables set forth oneok partners' hedging information for the periods indicated, as of february 20, 2012 : year ending december 31, 2012 volumes hedged (a) average price percentage hedged ngls (bbl/d) 8,544 $ 1.24 / gallon 72 % condensate (bbl/d) 1,818 $ 2.43 / gallon 73 % total (bbl/d) 10,362 $ 1.45 / gallon 72 % natural gas (mmbtu/d) 44,344 $ 4.13 / mmbtu 73 % (a) - hedged with fixed-price swaps. year ending december 31, 2013 volumes hedged (a) average price percentage hedged ngls (bbl/d) 367 $ 2.55 / gallon 2 % condensate (bbl/d) 649 $ 2.55 / gallon 23 % total (bbl/d) 1,016 $ 2.55 / gallon 4 % natural gas (mmbtu/d) 50,137 $ 3.85 / mmbtu 75 % (a) - hedged with fixed-price swaps. 68 table of contents oneok partners expects its commodity price risk in its gathering and processing business to increase in the future as volumes increase under pop contracts with our customers. oneok partners' commodity price risk is estimated as a hypothetical change in the price of ngls, crude oil and natural gas, excluding the effects of hedging, and assuming normal operating conditions. oneok partners' condensate sales are based on the price of crude oil. oneok partners estimates the following: a $0.01 per gallon change in the composite price of ngls would change annual net margin by approximately $1.7 million; a $1.00 per barrel change in the price of crude oil would change annual net margin by approximately $1.3 million; and a $0.10 per mmbtu change in the price of natural gas would change annual net margin by approximately $2.2 million. oneok partners is also exposed to location price differential risk primarily as a result of ngls in storage, the relative values of the various ngl products to each other, the relative value of ngls to natural gas and the relative value of ngl purchases at one location and sales at another location. oneok partners utilizes fixed-price physical forward contracts to reduce earnings volatility related to ngl price fluctuations in the storage and optimization activities of its natural gas liquids business. oneok partners has not entered into any financial instruments with respect to its natural gas liquids business's marketing activities. in addition, oneok partners is exposed to commodity price risk as its natural gas interstate and intrastate pipelines retain natural gas from its customers for operations or as part of its fee for services provided. when the amount of natural gas consumed in operations by these pipelines differs from the amount provided by its customers, the pipelines must buy or sell natural gas, or store or use natural gas from inventory, which exposes oneok partners to commodity price risk. at december 31, 2011, there were no hedges in place with respect to natural gas price risk from oneok partners' natural gas pipeline business. natural gas distribution our natural gas distribution segment uses derivative instruments to hedge the cost of anticipated natural gas purchases during the winter heating months to protect its customers from upward volatility in the market price of natural gas. gains or losses associated with these derivative instruments are included in, and recoverable through, the monthly purchased-gas cost-adjustment mechanism. energy services our energy services segment is exposed to commodity price risk, location risk and price volatility arising from natural gas in storage, peaking natural gas load requirement contracts, asset management contracts and index-based purchases and sales of natural gas at various market locations. we attempt to mitigate our exposure to commodity price risk through the use of derivative instruments, which, under certain circumstances, are designated as cash flow or fair value hedges. we are also exposed to commodity price risk from fixed-price purchases and sales of natural gas, which we hedge with derivative instruments. both the fixed-price purchases and sales and related derivatives are recorded at fair value. fair value component of the energy marketing and risk management assets and liabilities - the following table sets forth the fair value component of the energy marketing and risk management assets and liabilities, excluding $80.7 million and $101.1 million of net assets at december 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, from derivative instruments declared as either fair value or cash flow hedges for the periods indicated: fair value component of energy marketing and risk management assets and liabilities (thousands of dollars) net fair value of derivatives outstanding at january 1, 2010 $ 2,725 derivatives reclassified or otherwise settled during the period (7,494 ) fair value of new derivatives entered into during the period 31,817 other changes in fair value (18,607 ) net fair value of derivatives outstanding at december 31, 2010 8,441 derivatives reclassified or otherwise settled during the period (11,378 ) fair value of new derivatives entered into during the period 70,141 other changes in fair value (54,595 ) net fair value of derivatives outstanding at december 31, 2011 (a) $ 12,609 (a) - the maturities of derivatives are based on injection and withdrawal periods from april through march, which is consistent with our business strategy. the maturities are as follows: $0.8 million matures through march 2012 and $11.8 million matures through march 2015. 69 table of contents the change in the net fair value of derivatives outstanding includes the effect of settled energy contracts and current period changes resulting primarily from newly originated transactions and the impact of market movements on the fair value of energy marketing and risk management assets and liabilities. for further discussion of fair value measurements and trading activities and assumptions used in our trading activities, see the estimates and critical accounting policies section of item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation. also, see notes c and d of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this annual report. var disclosure of commodity price risk - we measure commodity price risk in our energy services segment using a var methodology, which estimates the expected maximum loss of our portfolio over a specified time horizon within a given confidence interval. our var calculations are based on the monte carlo approach. the quantification of commodity price risk using var provides a consistent measure of risk across diverse energy markets and products with different risk factors in order to set overall risk tolerance and to determine risk thresholds. the use of this methodology requires a number of key assumptions, including the selection of a confidence level and the holding period to liquidation. historical data is used to estimate our var with more weight given to recent data, which is considered a more relevant predictor of immediate future commodity market movements. other assumptions include a distribution of prices and historical data to calculate volatility and price correlations. we rely on var to determine the potential reduction in the portfolio values arising from changes in market conditions over a defined period. while management believes that the referenced assumptions and approximations are reasonable, no uniform industry methodology exists for estimating var. different assumptions and approximations could produce materially different var estimates. our var exposure represents an estimate of potential losses that would be recognized due to adverse commodity price movements in our energy services segment's portfolio of derivative financial instruments, physical commodity contracts, leased transport, storage capacity contracts and natural gas in storage. a one-day time horizon and a 95-percent confidence level are used in our var data. actual future gains and losses will differ from those estimated by the var calculation based on actual fluctuations in commodity prices, operating exposures and timing thereof, and the changes in our derivative financial instruments, physical contracts and natural gas in storage. var information should be evaluated in light of these assumptions and the methodology's other limitations. the potential impact on our future earnings, as measured by var, was $2.7 million and $2.9 million at december 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. the following table sets forth the average, high and low var calculations for the periods indicated: years ended december 31, value-at-risk 2011 2010 (millions of dollars) average $ 3.0 $ 5.5 high $ 6.6 $ 9.6 low $ 1.2 $ 2.3 our var calculation includes derivatives, executory storage and transportation agreements and their related hedges. the variations in the var data are reflective of market volatility and changes in our portfolio during the year. the decrease in average var for 2011, compared with 2010, was due primarily to lower average commodity prices and decreased price volatility in 2011. to the extent open commodity positions exist, fluctuating commodity prices can impact our financial results and financial position either favorably or unfavorably. as a result, we cannot predict with precision the impact risk-management decisions may have on our business, operating results or financial position. interest-rate risk general - we are subject to the risk of interest-rate fluctuation in the normal course of business. we manage interest-rate risk through the use of fixed-rate debt, floating-rate debt and, at times, interest-rate swaps. fixed-rate swaps may be used to reduce our risk of increased interest costs during periods of rising interest rates. floating-rate swaps may be used to convert the fixed rates of long-term borrowings into short-term variable rates. at december 31, 2011, the interest rate on all of oneok's and oneok partners' long-term debt was fixed, and oneok and oneok partners had forward-starting interest-rate swaps that have been designated as cash flow hedges of the variability of interest payments on a portion of a forecasted debt issuance that may result from changes in the benchmark interest rate before the debt is issued. 70 table of contents counterparty credit risk oneok and oneok partners assess the creditworthiness of their counterparties on an ongoing basis and require security, including prepayments and other forms of collateral, when appropriate. 71 table of contents this page intentionally left blank. 72 table of contentsrisk factors 21 risk factors our investors should consider the following risks that could affect us and our business. although we have tried to discuss key factors, our investors need to be aware that other risks may prove to be important in the future. new risks may emerge at any time, and we cannot predict such risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect our financial performance. investors should carefully consider the following discussion of risks and the other information included or incorporated by reference in this annual report, including forward-looking statements, which are included in item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. risk factors inherent in our business market volatility and capital availability could affect adversely our business. the capital and global credit markets have experienced volatility and disruption in the past. in many cases during these periods, the capital markets have exerted downward pressure on equity values and reduced the credit capacity for certain companies. our ability to grow could be constrained if we do not have regular access to the capital and global credit markets. similar or more severe levels of global market disruption and volatility may have an adverse affect on us resulting from, but not limited to, disruption of our access to capital and credit markets, difficulty in obtaining financing necessary to expand facilities or acquire assets, increased financing cost and increasingly restrictive covenants. our operating results may be affected materially and adversely by unfavorable economic and market conditions. economic conditions worldwide have from time to time contributed to slowdowns in the oil and natural gas industry, as well as in the specific segments and markets in which we operate, resulting in reduced demand and increased price competition for our products and services. our operating results in one or more geographic regions may also be affected by uncertain or changing economic conditions within that region. volatility in commodity prices may have an impact on many of our customers, which, in turn, could have a negative impact on their ability to meet their obligations to us. if global economic and market conditions (including volatility in commodity markets), or economic conditions in the united states or other key markets, remain uncertain or persist, spread or deteriorate further, we may experience material impacts on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. our cash flow depends heavily on the earnings and distributions of oneok partners. our partnership interest in oneok partners is one of our largest cash-generating assets. therefore, our cash flow is heavily dependent upon the ability of oneok partners to make distributions to its partners. a significant decline in oneok partners' earnings and/or cash distributions could have a corresponding negative impact on us. for information on the risk factors inherent in the business of oneok partners, see the section below entitled additional risk factors related to oneok partners' business and item 1a, risk factors in the oneok partners' annual report. some of our nonregulated businesses have a higher level of risk than our regulated businesses. some of our nonregulated operations, which include oneok partners' natural gas gathering and processing business, most of its natural gas liquids business and our energy services business, have a higher level of risk than our regulated operations, which include the ldcs in our natural gas distribution business, oneok partners' natural gas pipelines business and a portion of its natural gas liquids business. we and oneok partners expect to continue investing in natural gas and natural gas liquids projects and other related projects, some or all of which may involve nonregulated businesses or assets. these projects could involve risks associated with operational factors, such as competition and dependence on certain suppliers and customers, and financial, economic and political factors, such as rapid and significant changes in commodity prices, the cost and availability of capital and counterparty risk, including the inability of a counterparty, customer or supplier to fulfill a contractual obligation. our ldcs have recorded certain assets that may not be recoverable from our customers. accounting principles that govern our ldcs permit certain assets that result from the regulatory process to be recorded on our balance sheet that could not be recorded under gaap for nonregulated entities. we consider factors such as rate orders from regulators, previous rate orders for substantially similar costs, written approval from the regulators and analysis of recoverability from internal and external legal counsel to determine the probability of future recovery of these assets. if we determine future recovery is no longer probable, we would be required to write off the regulatory assets at that time. 21 terrorist attacks aimed at our facilities could affect adversely our business. since the terrorist attacks on september 11, 2001, the united states government has issued warnings that energy assets, specifically the nation's pipeline infrastructure, may be future targets of terrorist organizations. these developments may subject our operations to increased risks. any future terrorist attack that targets our facilities, those of our customers and, in some cases, those of other pipelines, could have a material adverse effect on our business. our businesses are subject to market and credit risks. we are exposed to market and credit risks in all of our operations. to minimize the risk of commodity price fluctuations, we periodically enter into derivative transactions to hedge anticipated purchases and sales of natural gas, ngls, crude oil, fuel requirements and firm transportation commitments. interest-rate swaps are also used to manage interest-rate risk. currency forward contracts are used to mitigate unexpected changes that may occur in anticipated revenue streams of our canadian natural gas sales and purchases driven by currency rate fluctuations. however, financial derivative instrument contracts do not eliminate the risks. specifically, such risks include commodity price changes, market supply shortages, interest-rate changes and counterparty default. the impact of these variables could result in our inability to fulfill contractual obligations, significantly higher energy or fuel costs relative to corresponding sales contracts, or increased interest expense. we are subject to the risk of loss resulting from nonpayment and/or nonperformance by customers and counterparties of our energy services segment. the customers of our energy services segment are predominantly ldcs, industrial customers, natural gas producers and marketers that may experience deterioration of their financial condition as a result of changing market conditions or financial difficulties that could impact their creditworthiness or ability to pay for our services. if we fail to assess adequately the creditworthiness of existing or future customers, unanticipated deterioration in their creditworthiness and any resulting nonpayment and/or nonperformance could adversely impact results of operations for our energy services segment. in addition, if any of our energy services segment's customers or counterparties filed for bankruptcy protection, we may not be able to recover amounts owed, which could impact materially and adversely the results of operations for our energy services segment. increased competition could have a significant adverse financial impact on us. the natural gas and natural gas liquids industries are expected to remain highly competitive. the demand for natural gas and ngls is primarily a function of commodity prices, including prices for alternative energy sources, customer usage rates, weather, economic conditions and service costs. our ability to compete also depends on a number of other factors, including competition from other companies for our existing customers, the efficiency, quality and reliability of the services we provide, and competition for throughput at oneok partners' gathering systems, pipelines, processing plants, fractionators and storage facilities. we cannot predict when we will be subject to changes in legislation or regulation, nor can we predict the impact of these changes on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. there are no assurances that our business will be positioned to effectively compete in the future. we may not be able to make additional strategic acquisitions or investments. our ability to make strategic acquisitions and investments will depend on: the extent to which acquisitions and investment opportunities become available; our success in bidding for the opportunities that do become available; regulatory approval, if required, of the acquisitions or investments on favorable terms; and our access to capital, including our ability to use our equity in acquisitions or investments, and the terms upon which we obtain capital. if we are unable to make strategic investments and acquisitions, we may be unable to grow. acquisitions that appear to be accretive may nevertheless reduce our cash from operations on a per-share basis. any acquisition involves potential risks that may include, among other things: inaccurate assumptions about volumes, revenues and costs, including potential synergies; an inability to integrate successfully the businesses we acquire; 22 decrease in our liquidity as a result of our using a significant portion of our available cash or borrowing capacity to finance the acquisition; a significant increase in our interest expense or financial leverage if we incur additional debt to finance the acquisition; the assumption of unknown liabilities for which we are not indemnified, our indemnity is inadequate or our insurance policies may exclude from coverage; an inability to hire, train or retain qualified personnel to manage and operate the acquired business and assets; limitations on rights to indemnity from the seller; inaccurate assumptions about the overall costs of equity or debt; the diversion of management's and employees' attention from other business concerns; unforeseen difficulties operating in new product areas or new geographic areas; increased regulatory burdens; customer or key employee losses at an acquired business; and increased regulatory requirements. if we consummate any future acquisitions, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly, and investors will not have the opportunity to evaluate the economic, financial and other relevant information that we will consider in determining the application of our resources to future acquisitions. we may engage in acquisitions, divestitures and other strategic transactions, the success of which may impact our results of operations. we may engage in acquisitions, divestitures and other strategic transactions. if we are unable to integrate successfully businesses that we acquire with our existing business, our results of operations may be affected materially and adversely. similarly, we may from time to time divest portions of our business, which may also affect materially and adversely our results of operations. any reduction in our credit ratings could affect materially and adversely our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. our long-term senior unsecured debt has been assigned an investment-grade rating by s&amp;p of bbb (stable) and moody's of baa2 (stable); however, we cannot assure that any of our current ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances in the future so warrant. specifically, if s&amp;p or moody's were to downgrade our long-term rating, particularly below investment grade, our borrowing costs would increase, which would affect adversely our financial results, and our potential pool of investors and funding sources could decrease. further, if our short-term ratings were to fall below a-2 or prime-2, the current ratings assigned by s&amp;p and moody's, respectively, it could limit significantly our access to the commercial paper market. any such downgrade of our long- or short-term ratings could increase significantly our cost of capital and reduce the availability of capital and, thus, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. ratings from credit agencies are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our securities. each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. a downgrade in our credit ratings below investment grade would affect negatively the operations of our energy services segment. if our credit ratings fall below investment grade, ratings triggers and/or adequate assurance clauses in many of our financial and wholesale physical contracts would be in effect. a ratings trigger or adequate assurance clause gives a counterparty the right to suspend or terminate the agreement unless margin thresholds are met. margin requirements related to the trading activities of our energy services segment may also increase as a result of market volatility without regard to our credit rating. the additional increase in capital required to support our energy services segment would impact materially and adversely our ability to compete, as well as our ability to manage actively the risk associated with existing storage and transportation contracts. our established risk-management policies and procedures may not be effective, and employees may violate our risk-management policies. we have developed and implemented a set of policies and procedures that involve both our senior management and the audit committee of our board of directors to assist us in managing risks associated with, among other things, the marketing, trading and risk-management activities associated with our business segments. our risk policies and procedures are intended to align strategies, processes, people, information technology and business knowledge so that risk is managed throughout the organization. as conditions change and become more complex, current risk measures may fail to assess adequately the relevant risk due to changes in the market and the presence of risks previously unknown to us. additionally, if employees fail to adhere 23 to our policies and procedures or if our policies and procedures are not effective, potentially because of future conditions or risks outside of our control, we may be exposed to greater risk than we had intended. ineffective risk-management policies and procedures or violation of risk-management policies and procedures could have an adverse affect on our earnings, financial position or cash flows. our indebtedness could impair our financial condition and our ability to fulfill our obligations. as of december 31, 2012 , we had total indebtedness for borrowed money of approximately $1.7 billion, which excludes the debt of oneok partners. our indebtedness could have significant consequences. for example, it could: make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our senior notes and our other indebtedness due to the increased debt-service obligations, which could, in turn, result in an event of default on such other indebtedness or our senior notes; impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general business purposes; diminish our ability to withstand a downturn in our business or the economy; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to debt-service payments, reducing the availability of cash for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, or general corporate purposes; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared with our competitors that have proportionately less debt. we are not prohibited under the indentures governing our senior notes from incurring additional indebtedness, but our debt agreements do subject us to certain operational limitations summarized in the next paragraph. if we incur significant additional indebtedness, it could worsen the negative consequences mentioned above and could affect adversely our ability to repay our other indebtedness. our revolving debt agreements with banks contain provisions that restrict our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to expand or pursue our business activities. for example, certain of these agreements contain provisions that, among other things, limit our ability to make loans or investments, make material changes to the nature of our business, merge, consolidate or engage in asset sales, grant liens or make negative pledges. certain agreements also require us to maintain certain financial ratios, which limit the amount of additional indebtedness we can incur, as described in the liquidity and capital resources section of item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation. these restrictions could result in higher costs of borrowing and impair our ability to generate additional cash. future financing agreements we may enter into may contain similar or more restrictive covenants. if we are unable to meet our debt-service obligations, we could be forced to restructure or refinance our indebtedness, seek additional equity capital or sell assets. we may be unable to obtain financing or sell assets on satisfactory terms, or at all. we are subject to comprehensive energy regulation by governmental agencies, and the recovery of our costs is dependent on regulatory action. we are subject to comprehensive regulation by several federal, state and municipal utility regulatory agencies, which significantly influences our operating environment and our ability to recover our costs from utility customers. the utility regulatory authorities in oklahoma, kansas and texas regulate many aspects of our utility operations, including customer service and the rates that we can charge customers. federal, state and local agencies also have jurisdiction over many of our other activities, including regulation by the ferc of our storage and interstate pipeline assets. the profitability of our regulated operations is dependent on our ability to pass through costs related to providing energy and other commodities to our customers by filing periodic rate cases. the regulatory environment applicable to our regulated businesses could impair our ability to recover costs historically absorbed by our customers. we are unable to predict the impact that the future regulatory activities of these agencies will have on our operating results. changes in regulations or the imposition of additional regulations could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. further, the results of our ldcs' operations could be impacted negatively if the cost-recovery mechanisms authorized by our rate cases do not function as anticipated. 24 the adoption and implementation of new statutory and regulatory requirements for derivative transactions could have an adverse impact on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business and increase the working capital requirements to conduct these activities. in july 2010, the dodd-frank act was enacted, which provides for new statutory and regulatory requirements for certain swap transactions. certain financial transactions will be required to be cleared on exchanges, and cash collateral will be required for these transactions. however, the dodd-frank act provides for a potential exemption from these clearing and cash collateral requirements for commercial end-users and includes a number of defined terms that will be used in determining how this exemption applies to particular derivative transactions and to the parties to those transactions. additionally, the dodd-frank act calls for various regulatory agencies, including the sec and the cftc, to establish regulations for implementation of many of the provisions of the act. the sec and cftc have proposed regulations for implementation of many provisions of the dodd-frank act. the cftc has issued final regulations for many provisions of the dodd-frank act that have varying effective dates for compliance, but others remain outstanding. based on our assessment of the regulations issued to date and those proposed, we expect to be able to continue to participate in financial markets for hedging certain risks inherent in our business, including commodity and interest-rate risks; however, the costs of doing so may increase as a result of the new legislation. we may also incur additional costs associated with our compliance with the new regulations and anticipated additional record-keeping, reporting and disclosure obligations. these requirements could affect adversely the liquidity and pricing of derivative contracts making it more difficult to execute our risk-management strategies in the future. also, the anticipated increased costs of compliance by dealers and counterparties will likely be passed on to customers, which could decrease the benefits of hedging to us and could reduce our profitability and liquidity. the volatility of natural gas prices may impact negatively ldc customers' perception of natural gas. natural gas costs are passed through to the customers of our ldcs based on the actual cost of the natural gas purchased by the particular ldc. substantial fluctuations in natural gas prices can occur from year to year. sustained periods of high natural gas prices or of pronounced natural gas price volatility may impact negatively our ldc customers' perception of natural gas, which could lead to customers selecting other energy alternatives, such as electricity, and to difficulties in the rate-making process. additionally, high natural gas prices may cause customers to conserve more and may also impact adversely our accounts receivable collections, resulting in higher bad-debt expense. our business is subject to regulatory oversight and potential penalties. the natural gas industry historically has been subject to heavy state and federal regulation that extends to many aspects of our businesses and operations, including: rates, operating terms and conditions of service; the types of services we may offer our customers; construction of new facilities; the integrity, safety and security of facilities and operations; acquisition, extension or abandonment of services or facilities; reporting and information posting requirements; maintenance of accounts and records; and relationships with affiliate companies involved in all aspects of the natural gas and energy businesses. compliance with these requirements can be costly and burdensome. future changes to laws, regulations and policies in these areas may impair our ability to compete for business or to recover costs and may increase the cost and burden of operations. we cannot guarantee that state or federal regulators will authorize any projects or acquisitions that we may propose in the future. moreover, there can be no guarantee that, if granted, any such authorizations will be made in a timely manner or will be free from potentially burdensome conditions. failure to comply with all applicable state or federal statutes, rules and regulations and orders, could bring substantial penalties and fines. for example, under the energy policy act of 2005, the ferc has civil penalty authority under the natural gas act to impose penalties for current violations of up to $1 million per day for each violation. finally, we cannot give any assurance regarding future state or federal regulations under which we will operate or the effect such regulations could have on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 25 demand for services of our natural gas distribution and energy services segments and for certain of oneok partners' products is highly weather sensitive and seasonal. the demand for natural gas in our natural gas distribution, energy services and oneok partners segments and for certain of oneok partners' products, such as propane, is weather sensitive and seasonal, with a significant portion of revenues derived from sales for heating during the winter months. weather conditions influence directly the volume of, among other things, natural gas and propane delivered to customers. deviations in weather from normal levels and the seasonal nature of certain of our segments' business can create large variations in earnings and short-term cash requirements. compliance with environmental regulations that we are subject to may be difficult and costly. we are subject to multiple environmental laws and regulations affecting many aspects of present and future operations, including air emissions, water quality, wastewater discharges, solid and hazardous wastes and hazardous material and substance management. these laws and regulations generally require us to obtain and comply with a wide variety of environmental registrations, licenses, permits, inspections and other approvals. failure to comply with these laws, regulations, permits and licenses may expose us to fines, penalties and/or interruptions in our operations that could be material to our results of operations. if a leak or spill of hazardous substance occurs from our lines or facilities in the process of transporting natural gas or ngls or at any facility that we own, operate or otherwise use, we could be held jointly and severally liable for all resulting liabilities, including investigation and clean-up costs, which could affect materially our results of operations and cash flows. in addition, emission controls required under the federal clean air act and other similar federal and state laws could require unexpected capital expenditures at our facilities. in addition, the epa issued a rule on air-quality standards, national emission standards for hazardous air pollutants for reciprocating internal combustion engines, also known as rice neshap, with a compliance date in 2013. the rule will require capital expenditures over the next three years for the purchase and installation of new emissions-control equipment. we do not expect these expenditures to have a material impact on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. we cannot assure that existing environmental regulations will not be revised or that new regulations will not be adopted or become applicable to us. revised or additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, particularly if those costs are not fully recoverable from customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. for further discussion on this topic, see note q of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this annual report. we are subject to risks that could limit our access to capital, thereby increasing our costs and affecting adversely our results of operations. we have grown rapidly in the past as a result of acquisitions. future acquisitions may require additional capital. if we are unable to access capital at competitive rates, our strategy of enhancing the earnings potential of our existing assets, including through acquisitions of complementary assets or businesses, will be affected adversely. a number of factors could affect adversely our ability to access capital, including: (i) general economic conditions; (ii) capital market conditions; (iii) market prices for natural gas, ngls and other hydrocarbons; (iv) the overall health of the energy and related industries; (v) our ability to maintain our investment-grade credit ratings; and (vi) our capital structure. much of our business is capital intensive, and achievement of our long-term growth targets is dependent, at least in part, upon our ability to access capital at rates and on terms we determine to be attractive. if our ability to access capital becomes constrained significantly, our interest costs will likely increase and our financial condition and future results of operations could be harmed significantly. energy efficiency and technological advances may affect the demand for natural gas and affect adversely our operating results. the national trend toward increased conservation and technological advances, including installation of improved insulation and the development of more efficient furnaces and other heating devices, may decrease the demand for natural gas by residential customers. more strict conservation measures in the future or technological advances in heating, conservation, energy generation or other devices could affect adversely our operations. the cost of providing pension and postretirement health care benefits to eligible employees and qualified retirees is subject to changes in pension fund values and changing demographics and may increase. we have a defined benefit pension plan for certain employees and postretirement welfare plans that provide postretirement medical and life insurance benefits to certain employees who retire with at least five years of service. the cost of providing these benefits to eligible current and former employees is subject to changes in the market value of our pension and postretirement benefit plan assets, changing demographics, including longer life expectancy of plan participants and their 26 beneficiaries and changes in health care costs. for further discussion of our defined benefit pension plan, see note m of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this annual report. any sustained declines in equity markets and reductions in bond yields may have a material adverse effect on the value of our pension and postretirement benefit plan assets. in these circumstances, additional cash contributions to our pension plans may be required. our business could be affected adversely by strikes or work stoppages by our unionized employees. as of january 31, 2013, 705 of our 4,859 employees were represented by collective bargaining units under collective bargaining agreements. we are involved periodically in discussions with collective bargaining units representing some of our employees to negotiate or renegotiate labor agreements. we cannot predict the results of these negotiations, including whether any failure to reach new agreements will have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations or whether we will be able to reach any agreement with the collective bargaining units. any failure to reach agreement on new labor contracts might result in a work stoppage. any future work stoppage could, depending on the operations and the length of the work stoppage, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of certain operations. we may face significant costs to comply with the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions. greenhouse gas emissions originate primarily from combustion engine exhaust, heater exhaust and fugitive methane gas emissions. various federal and state legislative proposals have been introduced to regulate the emission of greenhouse gases, particularly carbon dioxide and methane, and the united states supreme court has ruled that carbon dioxide is a pollutant subject to regulation by the epa. in addition, there have been international efforts seeking legally binding reductions in emissions of greenhouse gases. we believe it is possible that future governmental legislation and/or regulation may require us either to limit greenhouse gas emissions from our operations or to purchase allowances for such emissions that are actually attributable to our distribution customers or attributable to ngl customers of oneok partners. however, we cannot predict precisely what form these future regulations will take, the stringency of the regulations, or when they will become effective. several legislative bills have been introduced in the united states congress that would require carbon dioxide emission reductions. previously considered proposals have included, among other things, limitations on the amount of greenhouse gases that can be emitted (so called caps ) together with systems of emissions allowances. this system could require us to reduce emissions, even though the technology is not currently available for efficient reduction, or to purchase allowances for such emissions. emissions also could be taxed independently of limits. in addition to activities on the federal level, state and regional initiatives could also lead to the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions sooner and/or independent of federal regulation. these regulations could be more stringent than any federal regulation or legislation that is adopted. future legislation and/or regulation designed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions could make some of our activities uneconomic to maintain or operate. further, we may not be able to pass on the higher costs to our customers or recover all costs related to complying with greenhouse gas regulatory requirements. our future results of operations, cash flows or financial condition could be adversely affected if such costs are not recovered through regulated rates or otherwise passed on to our customers. we continue to monitor legislative and regulatory developments in this area. although the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions may have a material impact on our operations and rates, we are unable to quantify the potential costs of the impacts at this time. we may not be able to pass on the higher costs to our customers or recover all costs related to complying with greenhouse gas emission regulatory requirements, which could cause material adverse effects on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we do not hedge fully against commodity price changes, time differentials or locational differentials. this could result in decreased revenues and increased costs, thereby resulting in lower margins and adversely affecting our results of operations. certain of our nonregulated and regulated businesses are exposed to market risk and the impact of market price fluctuations of natural gas, ngls and crude oil. market risk refers to the risk of loss of cash flows and future earnings arising from adverse 27 changes in commodity prices. our energy services segment's primary exposures arise from seasonal and location price differentials and our ability to execute hedges. our oneok partners segment's primary exposures arise from: the value of the ngls and natural gas it receives in exchange for the natural gas gathering and processing services it provides; the differentials between ngl and natural gas prices associated with its keep-whole contracts and the differentials between the individual ngl products with respect to oneok partners' natural gas liquids transportation and fractionation agreements; the differentials between the individual ngl products; the ngl price differentials at different locations; the seasonal price differentials of natural gas and ngls related to storage operations; the fuel costs and the value of the retained fuel in-kind in oneok partners' natural gas pipelines and storage operations; and the differential between ethane and natural gas prices. our oneok partners and energy services segments also are exposed to the risk of changing prices or the cost of transportation resulting from purchasing natural gas or ngls at one location and selling it at another (referred to as basis risk). to minimize the risk from market price fluctuations of natural gas, ngls and crude oil, we use physical forward transactions and commodity financial derivative instruments such as futures contracts, swaps and options to manage market risk of existing or anticipated purchases and sales of natural gas, ngls and crude oil. we adhere to policies and procedures that monitor our exposure to market risk from open positions. however, we do not hedge fully against commodity price changes, and therefore, we retain some exposure to market risk. accordingly, any adverse changes to commodity prices could result in decreased revenue and/or increased costs. our natural gas distribution segment uses storage to minimize the volatility of natural gas costs for our customers by storing natural gas in periods of low demand for consumption in peak-demand periods. in addition, various natural gas supply contracts allow us the option to convert index-based purchases to fixed prices. also, we use derivative instruments to hedge the cost of anticipated natural gas purchases during the winter heating months to protect customers from upward volatility in the market price of natural gas. federal, state and local jurisdictions may challenge our tax return positions. the positions taken in our federal and state tax return filings require significant judgments, use of estimates and the interpretation and application of complex tax laws. significant judgment is also required in assessing the timing and amounts of deductible and taxable items. despite management's belief that our tax return positions are fully supportable, certain positions may be successfully challenged by federal, state and local jurisdictions. although we control oneok partners, we may have conflicts of interest with oneok partners that could subject us to claims that we have breached our fiduciary duty to oneok partners and its unitholders. we are the sole general partner and own 43.4 percent of oneok partners. conflicts of interest may arise between us and oneok partners and its unitholders. in resolving these conflicts, we may favor our own interests and the interests of our affiliates over the interests of oneok partners and its unitholders as long as the resolution does not conflict with the oneok partners' partnership agreement or our fiduciary duties to oneok partners and its unitholders. we are subject to physical and financial risks associated with climate change. there is a growing belief that emissions of greenhouse gases may be linked to global climate change. climate change creates physical and financial risk. our customers' energy needs vary with weather conditions, primarily temperature and humidity. for residential customers, heating and cooling represent their largest energy use. to the extent weather conditions may be affected by climate change, customers' energy use could increase or decrease depending on the duration and magnitude of any changes. increased energy use due to weather changes may require us to invest in more pipelines and other infrastructure to serve increased demand. a decrease in energy use due to weather changes may affect our financial condition through decreased revenues. extreme weather conditions in general require more system backup, adding to costs, and can contribute to increased system stresses, including service interruptions. weather conditions outside of our operating territory could also have an impact on our revenues. severe weather impacts our operating territories primarily through hurricanes, thunderstorms, tornados and snow or ice storms. to the extent the frequency of extreme weather events increases, this could increase our cost of providing service. we may not be able to pass on the higher costs to our customers or recover all the costs related to mitigating these physical risks. to the extent financial markets view climate change and emissions of greenhouse gases as a 28 financial risk, this could affect negatively our ability to access capital markets or cause us to receive less favorable terms and conditions in future financings. our business could be affected by the potential for lawsuits against greenhouse gas emitters, based on links drawn between greenhouse gas emissions and climate change. both our and oneok partners' operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions that could affect materially and adversely our and oneok partners' business and for which neither we nor oneok partners may be insured adequately. our and oneok partners' operations are subject to all of the risks and hazards typically associated with the operation of natural gas and natural gas liquids gathering, transportation and distribution pipelines, storage facilities and processing and fractionation plants. operating risks include but are not limited to leaks, pipeline ruptures, the breakdown or failure of equipment or processes, and the performance of pipeline facilities below expected levels of capacity and efficiency. other operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions include adverse weather conditions, accidents, explosions, fires, the collision of equipment with our or oneok partners' pipeline facilities (for example, this may occur if a third party were to perform excavation or construction work near our or oneok partners' facilities) and catastrophic events such as tornados, hurricanes, earthquakes, floods or other similar events beyond our or oneok partners' control. it is also possible that our or oneok partners' facilities could be direct targets or indirect casualties of an act of terrorism. a casualty occurrence might result in injury or loss of life, extensive property damage or environmental damage. liabilities incurred and interruptions to the operations of our or oneok partners' pipelines or other facilities caused by such an event could reduce revenues generated by us or oneok partners and increase expenses, thereby impairing our or oneok partners' ability to meet our respective obligations. insurance proceeds may not be adequate to cover all liabilities or expenses incurred or revenues lost, and neither we nor oneok partners are fully insured against all risks inherent in our respective businesses. as a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain insurance policies can increase substantially, and, in some instances, certain insurance may become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. consequently, neither we nor oneok partners may be able to renew existing insurance policies or purchase other desirable insurance on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. if either we or oneok partners were to incur a significant liability for which either we or oneok partners was not insured fully, it could have a material adverse effect on our or oneok partners' financial position and results of operations. further, the proceeds of any such insurance may not be paid in a timely manner and may be insufficient if such an event were to occur. our use of financial instruments and physical forward transactions to hedge market risk may result in reduced income. we utilize financial instruments and physical forward transactions to mitigate our exposure to commodity price and interest-rate fluctuations. hedging arrangements that are used to reduce our exposure to commodity price fluctuations limit the benefit we would otherwise receive if market prices for natural gas, crude oil and ngls exceed the stated price in the hedge instrument for these commodities. hedging instruments that are used to reduce our exposure to interest-rate fluctuations could expose us to risk of financial loss where we have contracted for variable-rate swap instruments to hedge fixed-rate instruments and the variable rate exceeds the fixed rate. in addition, these hedging arrangements may limit the benefit we would otherwise receive if we had contracted for fixed-rate swap agreements to hedge variable-rate instruments and the variable rate falls below the fixed rate. an impairment of goodwill, long-lived assets, including intangible assets, and equity-method investments could reduce our earnings. goodwill is recorded when the purchase price of a business exceeds the fair market value of the tangible and separately measurable intangible net assets. gaap requires us to test goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives for impairment on an annual basis or when events or circumstances occur indicating that goodwill might be impaired. long-lived assets, including intangible assets with finite useful lives, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. for the investments oneok partners accounts for under the equity method, the impairment test considers whether the fair value of the equity investment as a whole, not the underlying net assets, has declined and whether that decline is other than temporary. for example, if natural gas production continues to decline in the powder river basin, oneok partners could be unable to recover the carrying value of its assets and equity investments in this area. if oneok partners determines that an impairment is indicated, it would be required to take an immediate noncash charge to earnings with a correlative effect on our equity and balance sheet leverage as measured by consolidated debt to total capitalization. 29 a failure in our operational systems or cyber security attacks on any of our facilities, or those of third parties, may affect adversely our financial results. our businesses are dependent upon our operational systems to process a large amount of data and complex transactions. if any of our financial, operational or other data processing systems fail or have other significant shortcomings, our financial results could be affected adversely. our financial results could also be affected adversely if an employee causes our operational systems to fail, either as a result of inadvertent error or by deliberately tampering with or manipulating our operational systems. in addition, dependence upon automated systems may further increase the risk that operational system flaws, employee tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect. due to increased technology advances, we have become more reliant on technology to help increase efficiency in our businesses. we use computer programs to help run our financial and operations organizations, and this may subject our business to increased risks. any future cyber security attacks that affect our facilities, our customers and any financial data could have a material adverse on our businesses. in addition, cyber attacks on our customer and employee data may result in a financial loss and may impact negatively our reputation. third-party systems on which we rely could also suffer operational system failure. any of these occurrences could disrupt one or more of our businesses, result in potential liability or reputational damage or otherwise have an adverse affect on our financial results. changes in interest rates could affect adversely our business. we use both fixed- and variable-rate debt, and we are exposed to market risk due to the floating interest rates on our short-term borrowings. from time to time we use interest-rate derivatives to hedge interest obligations on specific debt issuances, including anticipated debt issuances. these hedges may be ineffective, and our results of operations, cash flows and financial position could be affected adversely by significant fluctuations or increases or decreases in interest rates from current levels. we do not own all of the land on which our pipelines and facilities are located, and we lease certain facilities and equipment, which could disrupt our operations. we do not own all of the land on which certain of our pipelines and facilities are located and are, therefore, subject to the risk of increased costs to maintain necessary land use. we obtain the rights to construct and operate certain of our pipelines and related facilities on land owned by third parties and governmental agencies for a specific period of time. our loss of these rights, through our inability to renew right-of-way contracts on acceptable terms or increased costs to renew such rights, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. a shortage of skilled labor may make it difficult for us to maintain labor productivity and competitive costs, which could affect operations and cash flows available for distribution. our operations require skilled and experienced workers with proficiency in multiple tasks. in recent years, a shortage of workers trained in various skills associated with the midstream energy business has caused us to conduct certain operations without full staff, thus hiring outside resources, which may decrease productivity and increase costs. this shortage of trained workers is the result of experienced workers reaching retirement age and increased competition for workers in certain areas, combined with the difficulty of attracting new workers to the midstream energy industry. this shortage of skilled labor could continue over an extended period. if the shortage of experienced labor continues or worsens, it could have an adverse impact on labor productivity and costs and our ability to expand production in the event there is an increase in the demand for our products and services, which could affect adversely our operations and cash flows available for distribution to unitholders. pipeline-integrity programs and repairs may impose significant costs and liabilities. pursuant to a dot rule, pipeline operators are required to develop integrity-management programs for intrastate and interstate natural gas and natural gas liquids pipelines that could affect high-consequence areas in the event of a release of product. as defined by applicable regulations, high-consequence areas include areas near the route of a pipeline with high-population densities, facilities occupied by persons of limited mobility or indoor or outdoor areas where at least 20 people gather periodically. the rule requires operators to identify pipeline segments that could impact a high-consequence area; improve data collection, integration and characterization of threats applicable to each segment; implement preventive and mitigating actions; perform ongoing assessments of pipeline integrity; and repair and remediate as necessary. these testing programs could cause us and oneok partners to incur significant capital and operating expenditures to make repairs or remediate, as well as initiate preventive or mitigating actions that are determined to be necessary. 30 we are subject to strict regulations at many of our facilities regarding employee safety, and failure to comply with these regulations could affect adversely financial results. the workplaces associated with our facilities are subject to the requirements of osha and comparable state statutes that regulate the protection of the health and safety of workers. the failure to comply with osha requirements or general industry standards, including keeping adequate records or occupational exposure to regulated substances could expose us to civil or criminal liability, enforcement actions, and regulatory fines and penalties and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flow. measurement adjustments on our pipeline system can be impacted materially by changes in estimation, type of commodity and other factors. natural gas and natural gas liquids measurement adjustments occur as part of the normal operating conditions associated with our assets. the quantification and resolution of measurement adjustments are complicated by several factors including: (1) the significant number ( i.e ., thousands) of meters that we use throughout our natural gas and natural gas liquids systems; (2) varying qualities of natural gas in the streams gathered and processed and the mixed nature of ngls gathered and fractionated through oneok partners' systems; and (3) variances in measurement that are inherent in metering technologies. each of these factors may contribute to measurement adjustments that can occur on our systems, which could affect negatively our earnings and cash flows. additional risk factors related to oneok partners' business the volatility of natural gas, crude oil and ngl prices could affect adversely oneok partners' cash flow. a significant portion of oneok partners' revenues are derived from the sale of commodities that are received as payment for natural gas gathering and processing services, for the transportation and storage of natural gas, and for the sale of ngls and ngl products in oneok partners' natural gas liquids business. commodity prices have been volatile and are likely to continue to be so in the future. the prices oneok partners receives for its commodities are subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors beyond oneok partners' control, including, but not limited to, the following: overall domestic and global economic conditions; relatively minor changes in the supply of, and demand for, domestic and foreign energy; market uncertainty; the availability and cost of third-party transportation, natural gas processing and natural gas liquids fractionation capacity; the level of consumer product demand; ethane rejection; geopolitical conditions impacting supply and demand for natural gas, ngls and crude oil; weather conditions; domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; the price and availability of alternative fuels; speculation in the commodity futures markets; overall domestic and global economic conditions; the price of natural gas, crude oil, ngl and liquefied natural gas imports and exports; the effect of worldwide energy conservation measures; and the impact of new supplies, new pipelines, processing and fractionation facilities on location price differentials. these external factors and the volatile nature of the energy markets make it difficult to estimate reliably future prices of commodities and the impact commodity price fluctuations have on our customers and their need for our services. as commodity prices decline, oneok partners is paid less for its commodities, thereby reducing its cash flow. ngl volumes could decline if it becomes uneconomical for natural gas processors to recover the ethane component of the natural gas stream as a separate product. in addition, crude-oil and natural gas production could also decline due to lower prices. oneok partners' inability to develop and execute growth projects and acquire new assets could result in reduced cash distributions to its unitholders and to oneok. oneok partners' primary business objectives are to generate cash flow sufficient to pay quarterly cash distributions to unitholders and to increase quarterly cash distributions over time. oneok partners' ability to maintain and grow its 31 distributions to unitholders, including oneok, depends on the growth of its existing businesses and strategic acquisitions. accordingly, if oneok partners is unable to implement business development opportunities and finance such activities on economically acceptable terms, its future growth will be limited, which could impact adversely its and our results of operations and cash flows. growing oneok partners' business by constructing new pipelines and plants or making modifications to its existing facilities subjects oneok partners to construction and supply risks should adequate natural gas or ngl supply be unavailable upon completion of the facilities. one of the ways oneok partners intends to grow its business is through the construction of new pipelines and new gathering, processing, storage and fractionation facilities and through modifications to oneok partners' existing pipelines and existing gathering, processing, storage and fractionation facilities. the construction and modification of pipelines and gathering, processing, storage and fractionation facilities may require significant capital expenditures, which may exceed oneok partners' estimates, and involves numerous regulatory, environmental, political, legal and weather-related uncertainties. construction projects in oneok partners' industry may increase demand for labor, materials and rights of way, which, may, in turn, impact oneok partners' costs and schedule. if oneok partners undertakes these projects, it may not be able to complete them on schedule or at the budgeted cost. additionally, oneok partners' revenues may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project. for instance, if oneok partners builds a new pipeline, the construction will occur over an extended period of time, and oneok partners will not receive any material increases in revenues until after completion of the project. oneok partners may have only limited natural gas or ngl supply committed to these facilities prior to their construction. additionally, oneok partners may construct facilities to capture anticipated future growth in production in a region in which anticipated production growth does not materialize. oneok partners may also rely on estimates of proved reserves in its decision to construct new pipelines and facilities, which may prove to be inaccurate because there are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves. as a result, new facilities may not be able to attract enough natural gas or ngls to achieve oneok partners' expected investment return, which could affect materially and adversely oneok partners' results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. if the level of drilling and production in the mid-continent, rocky mountain, texas and gulf coast regions declines substantially near its assets, oneok partners' volumes and revenue could decline. oneok partners' ability to maintain or expand its businesses depends largely on the level of drilling and production by third parties in the mid-continent, rocky mountain, texas and gulf coast regions. drilling and production are impacted by factors beyond oneok partners' control, including: demand and prices for natural gas, ngls and crude oil; producers' finding and developing costs of reserves; producers' desire and ability to obtain necessary permits in a timely and economic manner; natural gas field characteristics and production performance; surface access and infrastructure issues; and capacity constraints on natural gas, crude oil and natural gas liquids infrastructure from the producing areas and oneok partners' facilities. if production from the western canada sedimentary basin remains flat or declines, and demand for natural gas from the western canada sedimentary basin is greater in market areas other than the midwestern united states, demand for oneok partners' interstate gas transportation services could decrease significantly. oneok partners depends on natural gas supply from the western canada sedimentary basin for some of oneok partners' interstate pipelines, primarily viking gas transmission and oneok partners' investment in northern border pipeline, that transport canadian natural gas from the western canada sedimentary basin to the midwestern united states market area. if demand for natural gas increases in canada or other markets not served by oneok partners' interstate pipelines and/or production remains flat or declines, demand for transportation service on oneok partners' interstate natural gas pipelines could decrease significantly, which could impact adversely oneok partners' results of operations and cash flows. oneok partners' regulated pipelines' transportation rates are subject to review and possible adjustment by federal and state regulators. under the natural gas act, which is applicable to interstate natural gas pipelines, and the interstate commerce act, which is applicable to crude oil and natural gas liquids pipelines, oneok partners' interstate transportation rates, which are regulated by the ferc, must be just and reasonable and not unduly discriminatory. 32 shippers may protest oneok partners' pipeline tariff filings, and the ferc and/or state regulatory agencies may investigate tariff rates. further, the ferc may order refunds of amounts collected under newly filed rates that are determined by the ferc to be in excess of a just and reasonable level. in addition, shippers may challenge by complaint the lawfulness of tariff rates that have become final and effective. the ferc and/or state regulatory agencies also may investigate tariff rates absent shipper complaint. any finding that approved rates exceed a just and reasonable level on the natural gas pipelines would take effect prospectively. in a complaint proceeding challenging natural gas liquids pipeline rates, if the ferc determines existing rates exceed a just and reasonable level, it could require the payment of reparations to complaining shippers for up to two years prior to the complaint. any such action by the ferc or a comparable action by a state regulatory agency could affect adversely oneok partners' pipeline businesses' ability to charge rates that would cover future increases in costs, or even to continue to collect rates that cover current costs and provide for a reasonable return. we can provide no assurance that oneok partners' pipeline systems will be able to recover all of their costs through existing or future rates. oneok partners' regulated pipeline companies have recorded certain assets that may not be recoverable from its customers. accounting policies for ferc-regulated companies permit certain assets that result from the regulated ratemaking process to be recorded on oneok partners' balance sheet that could not be recorded under gaap for nonregulated entities. oneok partners considers factors such as regulatory changes and the impact of competition to determine the probability of future recovery of these assets. if oneok partners determines future recovery is no longer probable, oneok partners would be required to write off the regulatory assets at that time. oneok partners' operations are subject to federal and state laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, which may expose it to significant costs and liabilities. the risk of incurring substantial environmental costs and liabilities is inherent in oneok partners' business. oneok partners' operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into, or otherwise relating to the protection of, the environment. examples of these laws include: the clean air act and analogous state laws that impose obligations related to air emissions; the clean water act and analogous state laws that regulate discharge of waste water from oneok partners' facilities to state and federal waters; the federal cercla and analogous state laws that regulate the cleanup of hazardous substances that may have been released at properties currently or previously owned or operated by oneok partners or locations to which oneok partners has sent waste for disposal; the federal resource conservation and recovery act and analogous state laws that impose requirements for the handling and discharge of solid and hazardous waste from oneok partners' facilities; and an epa-issued rule on air-quality standards, known as rice neshap. various federal and state governmental authorities, including the epa, have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them. violators are subject to administrative, civil and criminal penalties, including civil fines, injunctions or both. joint and several, strict liability may be incurred without regard to fault under the cercla, resource conservation and recovery act and analogous state laws for the remediation of contaminated areas. there is an inherent risk of incurring environmental costs and liabilities in oneok partners' business due to its handling of the products it gathers, transports, processes and stores, air emissions related to its operations, past industry operations and waste disposal practices, some of which may be material. private parties, including the owners of properties through which oneok partners' pipeline systems pass, may have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as to seek damages for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage arising from oneok partners' operations. some sites oneok partners operates are located near current or former third-party hydrocarbon storage and processing operations, and there is a risk that contamination has migrated from those sites to oneok partners' sites. in addition, increasingly strict laws, regulations and enforcement policies could increase significantly oneok partners' compliance costs and the cost of any remediation that may become necessary, some of which may be material. additional information is included under item 1, business under environmental and safety matters and in note q of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this annual report. oneok partners' insurance may not cover all environmental risks and costs or may not provide sufficient coverage in the event an environmental claim is made against oneok partners. oneok partners' business may be affected materially and adversely by increased costs due to stricter pollution-control requirements or liabilities resulting from noncompliance with 33 required operating or other regulatory permits. new environmental regulations might also materially and adversely affect oneok partners' products and activities, and federal and state agencies could impose additional safety requirements, all of which could affect materially oneok partners' profitability. in the competition for customers, oneok partners may have significant levels of uncontracted or discounted capacity on its natural gas and natural gas liquids pipelines, processing, fractionation and storage assets. oneok partners' natural gas and natural gas liquids pipelines, processing, fractionation and storage assets compete with other pipelines, processing, fractionation and storage facilities for natural gas and ngl supplies delivered to the markets it serves. as a result of competition, at any given time oneok partners may have significant levels of uncontracted or discounted capacity on its pipelines, processing, fractionation and in its storage assets, which could have a material adverse impact on oneok partners' results of operations. oneok partners is exposed to the credit risk of its customers or counterparties, and its credit risk management may not be adequate to protect against such risk. oneok partners is subject to the risk of loss resulting from nonpayment and/or nonperformance by oneok partners' customers or counterparties. oneok partners' customers or counterparties may experience rapid deterioration of their financial condition as a result of changing market conditions or financial difficulties that could impact their creditworthiness or ability to pay oneok partners for its services. oneok partners assesses the creditworthiness of its customers or counterparties and obtains collateral as it deems appropriate. if oneok partners fails to assess adequately the creditworthiness of existing or future customers or counterparties, unanticipated deterioration in their creditworthiness and any resulting nonpayment and/or nonperformance could adversely impact oneok partners' results of operations. in addition, if any of oneok partners' customers or counterparties files for bankruptcy protection, this could have a material negative impact on oneok partners' results of operations. any reduction in oneok partners' credit ratings could affect materially and adversely its business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. oneok partners' senior unsecured long-term debt has been assigned an investment-grade rating by moody's of baa2 (stable) and by s&amp;p of bbb (stable); however, we cannot provide assurance that any of its current ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances in the future so warrant. specifically, if moody's or s&amp;p were to downgrade oneok partners' long-term debt rating, particularly below investment grade, its borrowing costs would increase, which would affect adversely its financial results, and its potential pool of investors and funding sources could decrease. ratings from credit agencies are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold oneok partners' securities. each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. an event of default may require oneok partners to offer to repurchase certain of its senior notes or may impair its ability to access capital. the indentures governing oneok partners' senior notes include an event of default upon the acceleration of other indebtedness of $100 million or more. such events of default would entitle the trustee or the holders of 25 percent in aggregate principal amount of oneok partners' outstanding senior notes to declare those senior notes immediately due and payable in full. oneok partners may not have sufficient cash on hand to repurchase and repay any accelerated senior notes, which may cause oneok partners to borrow money under its credit facilities or seek alternative financing sources to finance the repurchases and repayment. oneok partners could also face difficulties accessing capital or its borrowing costs could increase, impacting its ability to obtain financing for acquisitions or capital expenditures, to refinance indebtedness and to fulfill its debt obligations. oneok partners' indebtedness could impair its financial condition and ability to fulfill its obligations. as of december 31, 2012, oneok partners had total indebtedness of approximately $4.8 billion. its indebtedness could have significant consequences. for example, it could: make it more difficult to satisfy its obligations with respect to its senior notes and other indebtedness, which could in turn result in an event of default on such other indebtedness or its senior notes; impair its ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general business purposes; 34 diminish its ability to withstand a downturn in its business or the economy; require it to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to debt-service payments, thereby reducing the availability of cash for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, distributions to partners and general partnership purposes; limit its flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in its business and the industry in which it operates; and place it at a competitive disadvantage compared with its competitors that have proportionately less debt. oneok partners is not prohibited under the indentures governing its senior notes from incurring additional indebtedness, but its debt agreements do subject it to certain operational limitations summarized in the next paragraph. oneok partners' incurrence of significant additional indebtedness would exacerbate the negative consequences mentioned above and could affect adversely its ability to repay its senior notes and other indebtedness. oneok partners' debt agreements contain provisions that restrict its ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to expand or pursue its business activities. for example, certain of these agreements contain provisions that, among other things, limit its ability to make loans or investments, make material changes to the nature of its business, merge, consolidate or engage in asset sales, grant liens or make negative pledges. certain agreements also require it to maintain certain financial ratios, which limit the amount of additional indebtedness it can incur. for example, the oneok partners credit agreement contains a legal covenant requiring it to maintain a ratio of indebtedness to adjusted ebitda (ebitda, as defined in the oneok partners credit agreement, adjusted for all noncash charges and increased for projected ebitda from certain lender-approved capital expansion projects) of no more than 5.0 to 1. these restrictions could result in higher costs of borrowing and impair its ability to generate additional cash. future financing agreements oneok partners may enter into may contain similar or more restrictive covenants. if oneok partners is unable to meet its debt-service obligations, it could be forced to restructure or refinance its indebtedness, seek additional equity capital or sell assets. it may be unable to obtain financing, raise equity or sell assets on satisfactory terms, or at all. borrowings under the oneok partners credit agreement and its senior notes are nonrecourse to oneok, and oneok does not guarantee the debt, commercial paper or other similar commitments of oneok partners. oneok partners has adopted certain valuation methodologies that may result in a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between the general partner and the unitholders. the irs may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of its limited partner units. when oneok partners issues additional units or engages in certain other transactions, oneok partners determines the fair market value of its assets and allocates any unrealized gain or loss attributable to its assets to the capital accounts of its unitholders and its general partner. oneok partners' methodology may be viewed as understating the value of its assets. in that case, there may be a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between certain unitholders and the general partner, which may be unfavorable to such unitholders. moreover, under oneok partners' current valuation methods, subsequent purchasers of common units may have a greater portion of their internal revenue code section 743(b) adjustment allocated to oneok partners' tangible assets and a lesser portion allocated to oneok partners' intangible assets. the irs may challenge oneok partners' valuation methods or oneok partners' allocation of the section 743(b) adjustment attributable to oneok partners' tangible and intangible assets, and allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction between the general partner and certain of oneok partners' unitholders. a successful irs challenge to these methods or allocations could affect adversely the amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to oneok partners' unitholders. it also could affect the amount of gain from oneok partners unitholders' sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to oneok partners unitholders' tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions. oneok partners' treatment of a purchaser of common units as having the same tax benefits as the seller could be challenged, resulting in a reduction in value of the common units. because oneok partners cannot match transferors and transferees of common units, oneok partners is required to maintain the uniformity of the economic and tax characteristics of these units in the hands of the purchasers and sellers of these units. oneok partners does so by adopting certain depreciation conventions that do not conform to all aspects of existing united states treasury regulations. a successful irs challenge to these conventions could affect adversely the tax benefits to a 35 unitholder of ownership of the common units and could have a negative impact on their value or result in audit adjustments to oneok partners unitholders' tax returns. increased regulation of exploration and production activities, including hydraulic fracturing, could result in reductions or delays in drilling and completing new oil and natural gas wells, which could impact adversely oneok partners' revenues by decreasing the volumes of unprocessed natural gas and ngls transported on its or its joint ventures natural gas and natural gas liquids pipelines. the natural gas industry is relying increasingly on natural gas supplies from unconventional sources, such as shale, tight sands and coal-bed methane gas. natural gas extracted from these sources frequently requires hydraulic fracturing, which involves the pressurized injection of water, sand, and chemicals into the geologic formation to stimulate natural gas production. recently, there have been initiatives at the federal and state levels to regulate or otherwise restrict the use of hydraulic fracturing, and several states have adopted regulations that impose more stringent permitting, disclosure and well-completion requirements on hydraulic fracturing operations. legislation or regulations placing restrictions on hydraulic fracturing activities could impose operational delays, increased operating costs and additional regulatory burdens on exploration and production operators, which could reduce their production of unprocessed natural gas and, in turn, adversely affect oneok partners' revenues and results of operations by decreasing the volumes of unprocessed natural gas and ngls gathered, treated, processed, fractionated and transported on oneok partners' or its joint ventures' natural gas and natural gas liquids pipelines, several of which gather unprocessed natural gas and ngls from areas where the use of hydraulic fracturing is prevalent. continued development of new supply sources could impact demand. the discovery of unconventional natural gas production areas closer to certain market areas that oneok partners serves may compete with natural gas originating in production areas connected to oneok partners' systems. for example, the marcellus shale in pennsylvania, new york, west virginia and ohio may cause natural gas in supply areas connected to oneok partners' systems to be diverted to markets other than its traditional market areas and may affect capacity utilization adversely on oneok partners' pipeline systems and oneok partners' ability to renew or replace existing contracts at rates sufficient to maintain current revenues and cash flows. in addition, supply volumes from these nonconventional natural gas production areas may compete with and displace volumes from the mid-continent, rocky mountains and canadian supply sources in certain of oneok partners' markets. the displacement of natural gas originating in supply areas connected to oneok partners' pipeline systems by these new supply sources that are closer to the end-use markets could result in lower transportation revenues, which could have a material adverse impact on oneok partners' business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. a court may use fraudulent conveyance considerations to avoid or subordinate oneok partners intermediate limited partnership's guarantee of certain of oneok partners' senior notes. various applicable fraudulent conveyance laws have been enacted for the protection of creditors. a court may use fraudulent conveyance laws to subordinate or avoid the guarantee of certain of oneok partners' senior notes issued by oneok partners intermediate limited partnership. it is also possible that under certain circumstances, a court could hold that the direct obligations of the intermediate partnership could be superior to the obligations under that guarantee. a court could avoid or subordinate the intermediate partnership's guarantee of certain of oneok partners' senior notes in favor of the intermediate partnership's other debts or liabilities to the extent that the court determined either of the following were true at the time the intermediate partnership issued the guarantee: the intermediate partnership incurred the guarantee with the intent to hinder, delay or defraud any of its present or future creditors or the intermediate partnership contemplated insolvency with a design to favor one or more creditors to the total or partial exclusion of others; or the intermediate partnership did not receive fair consideration or reasonable equivalent value for issuing the guarantee and, at the time it issued the guarantee, the intermediate partnership: was insolvent or rendered insolvent by reason of the issuance of the guarantee; was engaged or about to engage in a business or transaction for which its remaining assets constituted unreasonably small capital; or intended to incur, or believed that it would incur, debts beyond its ability to pay such debts as they matured. 36 the measure of insolvency for purposes of the foregoing will vary depending upon the law of the relevant jurisdiction. generally, however, an entity would be considered insolvent for purposes of the foregoing if: the sum of its debts, including contingent liabilities, were greater than the fair saleable value of all of its assets at a fair valuation; the present fair saleable value of its assets was less than the amount that would be required to pay its probable liability on its existing debts, including contingent liabilities, as they become absolute and mature; or it could not pay its debts as they become due. among other things, a legal challenge of the intermediate partnership's guarantee of certain of oneok partners' senior notes on fraudulent conveyance grounds may focus on the benefits, if any, realized by the intermediate partnership as a result of oneok partners' issuance of such senior notes. to the extent the intermediate partnership's guarantee of certain of oneok partners' senior notes is avoided as a result of fraudulent conveyance or held unenforceable for any other reason, the holders of such senior notes would cease to have any claim in respect of the guarantee. oneok partners may be unable to cause its joint ventures to take or not to take certain actions unless some or all of its joint-venture participants agree. oneok partners participates in several joint ventures. due to the nature of some of these arrangements, each participant in these joint ventures has made substantial investments in the joint venture and, accordingly, has required that the relevant charter documents contain certain features designed to provide each participant with the opportunity to participate in the management of the joint venture and to protect its investment, as well as any other assets which may be substantially dependent on or otherwise affected by the activities of that joint venture. these participation and protective features customarily include a corporate governance structure that requires at least a majority-in-interest vote to authorize many basic activities and requires a greater voting interest (sometimes up to 100 percent) to authorize more significant activities. examples of these more significant activities are large expenditures or contractual commitments, the construction or acquisition of assets, borrowing money or otherwise raising capital, transactions with affiliates of a joint-venture participant, litigation and transactions not in the ordinary course of business, among others. thus, without the concurrence of joint-venture participants with enough voting interests, oneok partners may be unable to cause any of its joint ventures to take or not to take certain actions, even though those actions may be in the best interest of oneok partners or the particular joint venture. moreover, any joint-venture owner generally may sell, transfer or otherwise modify its ownership interest in a joint venture, whether in a transaction involving third parties or the other joint-venture owners. any such transaction could result in oneok partners being required to partner with different or additional parties. oneok partners' operating cash flow is derived partially from cash distributions it receives from its unconsolidated affiliates. oneok partners' operating cash flow is derived partially from cash distributions it receives from its unconsolidated affiliates, as discussed in note o of the notes to consolidated financial statements. the amount of cash that oneok partners' unconsolidated affiliates can distribute principally depends upon the amount of cash flow these affiliates generate from their respective operations, which may fluctuate from quarter to quarter. oneok partners does not have any direct control over the cash distribution policies of its unconsolidated affiliates. this lack of control may contribute to oneok partners' not having sufficient available cash each quarter to continue paying distributions at its current levels. additionally, the amount of cash that oneok partners has available for cash distribution depends primarily upon its cash flow, including cash flow from financial reserves and working capital borrowings, and is not solely a function of profitability, which will be affected by noncash items such as depreciation, amortization and provisions for asset impairments. as a result, oneok partners may be able to make cash distributions during periods when it records losses and may not be able to make cash distributions during periods when it records net income. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 74 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk policy and oversight - we control the scope of risk management, marketing and trading operations through a comprehensive set of policies and procedures involving senior levels of management. the audit committee of our board of directors has oversight responsibilities for our risk-management limits and policies. our risk oversight committee, comprised of corporate and business-segment officers, oversees all activities related to commodity, price and credit risk management, marketing and trading activities and interest rate risk. the committee also monitors risk metrics including value-at-risk (var), position limits and mark-to-market losses. we have a risk-control group that is assigned responsibility for establishing and enforcing the policies and procedures and monitoring certain risk metrics. key risk-control activities include risk measurement and monitoring, validation of transactions, portfolio valuation, var and other risk metrics. our exposure to market risk discussed below includes forward-looking statements and represents an estimate of possible changes in future earnings that could occur assuming hypothetical future movements in commodity prices or interest rates. our views on market risk are not necessarily indicative of actual results that may occur and do not represent the maximum possible gains and losses that may occur since actual gains and losses will differ from those estimated based on actual fluctuations in interest rates or commodity prices and the timing of transactions. commodity price risk we are exposed to commodity-price risk and the impact of market price fluctuations of natural gas, ngls and crude oil. commodity-price risk refers to the risk of loss in cash flows and future earnings arising from adverse changes in energy prices, including the impact on seasonal and location price differentials. to minimize the risk from market price fluctuations of natural gas, ngls and crude oil, we use commodity derivative instruments such as futures, physical forward contracts, swaps and options to manage commodity-price risk associated with existing or anticipated purchase and sale agreements, existing physical natural gas or natural gas liquids in storage and location price differentials. oneok partners oneok partners is exposed to commodity-price risk as a result of receiving commodities in exchange for its natural gas gathering and processing services. to a lesser extent, oneok partners is exposed to the relative price differential between ngls and natural gas, or the gross processing spread, with respect to its keep-whole contracts. oneok partners is also exposed to the risk of location price differentials and the cost of third-party transportation to various market locations. as part of oneok partners' hedging strategy, oneok partners uses commodity fixed-price physical forwards and derivative contracts, including nymex-based futures and over-the-counter swaps, to minimize earnings volatility in its natural gas gathering and processing business related to natural gas, ngl and condensate price fluctuations. oneok partners reduces its gross processing spread exposure through a combination of physical and financial hedges. oneok partners utilizes a portion of its percent-of-proceeds equity natural gas as an offset, or natural hedge, to an equivalent portion of its keep-whole shrink requirements. this has the effect of converting oneok partners' gross processing spread risk to ngl commodity-price risk, and oneok partners then uses financial instruments and physical-forward contracts to hedge the sale of ngls. 74 as of december 31, 2012 , oneok partners had $17.6 million of commodity-related derivative assets and $2.5 million of commodity-related derivative liabilities, excluding the impact of netting. the following tables set forth oneok partners' hedging information for the periods indicated: year ending december 31, 2013 volumes hedges average price percentage hedged ngls (bbl/d) 6,439 $ 1.19 / gallon 45% condensate (bbl/d) 2,038 $ 2.43 / gallon 83% total (bbl/d) 8,477 $ 1.49 / gallon 51% natural gas (mmbtu/d) 60,014 $ 3.79 / mmbtu 79% year ending december 31, 2014 volumes hedges average price percentage hedged condensate (bbl/d) 868 $ 2.22 / gallon 33% natural gas (mmbtu/d) 36,726 $ 4.11 / mmbtu 48% oneok partners expects its commodity-price risk in its gathering and processing business to increase in the future as volumes increase under pop contracts with our customers. oneok partners' commodity-price risk is estimated as a hypothetical change in the price of ngls, crude oil and natural gas, excluding the effects of hedging, and assuming normal operating conditions. oneok partners' condensate sales are based on the price of crude oil. oneok partners estimates the following: a $0.01 per gallon change in the composite price of ngls would change annual net margin by approximately $2.1 million ; a $1.00 per barrel change in the price of crude oil would change annual net margin by approximately $1.1 million ; and a $0.10 per mmbtu change in the price of natural gas would change annual net margin by approximately $2.8 million . oneok partners is also exposed to location price differential risk primarily as a result of ngls in storage, the relative values of the various ngl products to each other, the relative value of ngls to natural gas and the relative value of ngl purchases at one location and sales at another location. oneok partners utilizes physical-forward contracts to reduce earnings volatility related to ngl price fluctuations in the storage and optimization activities of its natural gas liquids business. oneok partners has not entered into any financial instruments with respect to its natural gas liquids business' marketing activities. in addition, oneok partners is exposed to commodity-price risk as its natural gas interstate and intrastate pipelines retain natural gas from its customers for operations or as part of its fee for services provided. when the amount of natural gas consumed in operations by these pipelines differs from the amount provided by its customers, the pipelines must buy or sell natural gas, or store or use natural gas from inventory, which exposes oneok partners to commodity-price risk depending on the regulatory treatment for this activity. to the extent that commodity price risk in its natural gas pipelines business is not mitigated by fuel cost-recovery mechanisms, oneok partners utilizes physical-forward contracts to reduce the impact of price fluctuations related to natural gas. at december 31, 2012 , there were no hedges in place with respect to natural gas price risk from oneok partners' natural gas pipeline business. natural gas distribution our natural gas distribution segment uses derivative instruments to hedge the cost of anticipated natural gas purchases during the winter heating months to protect its customers from upward volatility in the market price of natural gas. gains or losses associated with these derivative instruments are included in, and recoverable through, the monthly purchased-gas cost-adjustment mechanism. energy services our energy services segment is exposed to commodity-price risk, seasonal and location-price risk and price volatility arising from natural gas in storage, peaking natural gas load requirement contracts, asset management contracts and index-based purchases and sales of natural gas at various market locations. we attempt to mitigate our exposure to commodity price risk through the use of derivative instruments, which, under certain circumstances, are designated as cash flow or fair value 75 hedges. we are also exposed to commodity price risk from fixed-price purchases and sales of natural gas, which we hedge with derivative instruments. both the fixed-price purchases and sales and related derivatives are recorded at fair value. fair value component of the energy marketing and risk-management assets and liabilities - the following table sets forth the fair value component of the energy marketing and risk management assets and liabilities, excluding $27.4 million and $80.7 million of net assets at december 31, 2012 and 2011 , respectively, from derivative instruments declared as either fair value or cash flow hedges for the periods indicated: fair value component of energy marketing and risk management assets and liabilities (thousands of dollars) net fair value of derivatives outstanding at january 1, 2011 $ 8,441 derivatives reclassified or otherwise settled during the period (11,378 ) fair value of new derivatives entered into during the period 70,141 other changes in fair value (54,595 ) net fair value of derivatives outstanding at december 31, 2011 12,609 derivatives reclassified or otherwise settled during the period (15,074 ) fair value of new derivatives entered into during the period 178 other changes in fair value 7,320 net fair value of derivatives outstanding at december 31, 2012 (a) $ 5,033 (a) - the maturities of derivatives are based on injection and withdrawal periods from april through march, which is consistent with our business strategy. the maturities are as follows: $2.6 million matures through march 2013 and $2.4 million matures through march 2015. the change in the net fair value of derivatives outstanding includes the effect of settled energy contracts and current period changes resulting primarily from newly originated transactions and the impact of market movements on the fair value of energy marketing and risk management assets and liabilities. for further discussion of fair value measurements and trading activities and assumptions used in our trading activities, see the estimates and critical accounting policies section of item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation. also, see notes c and d of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this annual report. var disclosure of commodity price risk - we measure commodity-price risk in our energy services segment using a var methodology, which estimates the expected maximum loss of our portfolio over a specified time horizon within a given confidence interval. our var calculations are based on the monte carlo approach. the quantification of commodity-price risk using var provides a consistent measure of risk across diverse energy markets and products with different risk factors in order to set overall risk tolerance and to determine risk thresholds. the use of this methodology requires a number of key assumptions, including the selection of a confidence level and the holding period to liquidation. historical data is used to estimate our var with more weight given to recent data, which is considered a more relevant predictor of immediate future commodity market movements. other assumptions include a distribution of prices and historical data to calculate volatility and price correlations. we rely on var to determine the potential reduction in the portfolio values arising from changes in market conditions over a defined period. while management believes that the referenced assumptions and approximations are reasonable, no uniform industry methodology exists for estimating var. different assumptions and approximations could produce materially different var estimates. our var exposure represents an estimate of potential losses that would be recognized due to adverse commodity-price movements in our energy services segment's portfolio of derivative financial instruments, physical commodity contracts, leased transport, storage capacity contracts and natural gas in storage. a one-day time horizon and a 95-percent confidence level are used in our var data. actual future gains and losses will differ from those estimated by the var calculation based on actual fluctuations in commodity prices, operating exposures and timing thereof, and the changes in our derivative financial instruments, physical contracts and natural gas in storage. var information should be evaluated in light of these assumptions and the methodology's other limitations. 76 the potential impact on our future earnings, as measured by var, was $1.5 million and $2.7 million at december 31, 2012 and 2011 , respectively. the following table sets forth the average, high and low var calculations for the periods indicated: years ended december 31, value-at-risk 2012 2011 (millions of dollars) average $ 2.6 $ 3.0 high $ 4.0 $ 6.6 low $ 1.4 $ 1.2 our var calculation includes derivatives, executory storage and transportation agreements and their related hedges. the variations in the var data are reflective of market volatility and changes in our portfolio during the year. the decrease in average var for 2012, compared with 2011, was due primarily to a reduction in volume of leased storage and transportation capacity. to the extent open commodity positions exist, fluctuating commodity prices can impact our financial results and financial position either favorably or unfavorably. as a result, we cannot predict with precision the impact risk-management decisions may have on our business, operating results or financial position. interest-rate risk general - we are subject to the risk of interest-rate fluctuation in the normal course of business. we manage interest-rate risk through the use of fixed-rate debt, floating-rate debt and, at times, interest-rate swaps. fixed-rate swaps may be used to reduce our risk of increased interest costs during periods of rising interest rates. floating-rate swaps may be used to convert the fixed rates of long-term borrowings into short-term variable rates. at december 31, 2012 , the interest rate on all of oneok's and oneok partners' long-term debt was fixed, and oneok partners had forward-starting interest-rate swaps that have been designated as cash flow hedges of the variability of interest payments on a portion of a forecasted debt issuance that may result from changes in the benchmark interest rate before the debt is issued. counterparty credit risk oneok and oneok partners assess the creditworthiness of their counterparties on an ongoing basis and require security, including prepayments and other forms of collateral, when appropriate. 77 this page intentionally left blank. 78risk factors 20 risk factors our investors should consider the following risks that could affect us and our business. although we have tried to discuss key factors, our investors need to be aware that other risks may prove to be important in the future. new risks may emerge at any 20 table of contents time, and we cannot predict such risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect our financial performance. investors should carefully consider the following discussion of risks and the other information included or incorporated by reference in this annual report, including forward-looking statements, which are included in item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. risk factors inherent in our business market volatility and capital availability could affect adversely our business. the capital and global credit markets have experienced volatility and disruption in the past. in many cases during these periods, the capital markets have exerted downward pressure on equity values and reduced the credit capacity for certain companies. our ability to grow could be constrained if we do not have regular access to the capital and global credit markets. similar or more severe levels of global market disruption and volatility may have an adverse affect on us resulting from, but not limited to, disruption of our access to capital and credit markets, difficulty in obtaining financing necessary to expand facilities or acquire assets, increased financing cost and increasingly restrictive covenants. our operating results may be affected materially and adversely by unfavorable economic and market conditions. economic conditions worldwide have from time to time contributed to slowdowns in the oil and natural gas industry, as well as in the specific segments and markets in which we operate, resulting in reduced demand and increased price competition for our products and services. our operating results in one or more geographic regions may also be affected by uncertain or changing economic conditions within that region. volatility in commodity prices may have an impact on many of our customers, which, in turn, could have a negative impact on their ability to meet their obligations to us. if global economic and market conditions (including volatility in commodity markets), or economic conditions in the united states or other key markets, remain uncertain or persist, spread or deteriorate further, we may experience material impacts on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. our cash flow depends heavily on the earnings and distributions of oneok partners. our partnership interest in oneok partners is our largest cash-generating source. therefore, our cash flow is heavily dependent upon the ability of oneok partners to make distributions to its partners. a significant decline in oneok partners' earnings and/or cash distributions could have a corresponding negative impact on us. for information on the risk factors inherent in the business of oneok partners, see the section below entitled additional risk factors related to oneok partners' business and item 1a, risk factors in the oneok partners' annual report. some of our nonregulated businesses have a higher level of risk than our regulated businesses. some of our nonregulated operations, which include oneok partners' natural gas gathering and processing business, most of its natural gas liquids business and our energy services business, have a higher level of risk than our regulated operations, which include oneok partners' natural gas pipelines business and a portion of its natural gas liquids business. we and oneok partners expect to continue investing in natural gas and natural gas liquids projects and other related projects, some or all of which may involve nonregulated businesses or assets. these projects could involve risks associated with operational factors, such as competition and dependence on certain suppliers and customers, and financial, economic and political factors, such as rapid and significant changes in commodity prices, the cost and availability of capital and counterparty risk, including the inability of a counterparty, customer or supplier to fulfill a contractual obligation. terrorist attacks directed at our facilities could affect adversely our business. since the terrorist attacks on september 11, 2001, the united states government has issued warnings that energy assets, specifically the nation's pipeline infrastructure, may be future targets of terrorist organizations. these developments may subject our operations to increased risks. any future terrorist attack that targets our facilities, those of our customers and, in some cases, those of other pipelines, could have a material adverse effect on our business. our businesses are subject to market and credit risks. we are exposed to market and credit risks in all of our operations. to minimize the risk of commodity price fluctuations, we periodically enter into derivative transactions to hedge anticipated purchases and sales of natural gas, ngls, crude oil, fuel requirements and firm transportation commitments. interest-rate swaps are also used to manage interest-rate risk. however, financial derivative instrument contracts do not eliminate the risks. specifically, such risks include commodity price changes, 21 table of contents market supply shortages, interest-rate changes and counterparty default. the impact of these variables could result in our inability to fulfill contractual obligations, significantly higher energy or fuel costs relative to corresponding sales contracts, or increased interest expense. we are subject to the risk of loss resulting from nonpayment and/or nonperformance by customers and counterparties of our energy services segment. the customers of our energy services segment are predominantly ldcs, industrial customers, natural gas producers and marketers that may experience deterioration of their financial condition as a result of changing market conditions or financial difficulties that could impact their creditworthiness or ability to pay for our services. during the wind down process, if we fail to assess adequately the creditworthiness of existing or future customers, unanticipated deterioration in their creditworthiness and any resulting nonpayment and/or nonperformance could affect adversely results of operations for our energy services segment. in addition, if any of our energy services segment's customers or counterparties filed for bankruptcy protection, we may not be able to recover amounts owed, which could impact materially and adversely the results of operations for our energy services segment. we may not be able to make additional strategic acquisitions or investments. our ability to make strategic acquisitions and investments will depend on: the extent to which acquisitions and investment opportunities become available; our success in bidding for the opportunities that do become available; regulatory approval, if required, of the acquisitions or investments on favorable terms; and our access to capital, including our ability to use our equity in acquisitions or investments, and the terms upon which we obtain capital. if we are unable to make strategic investments and acquisitions, we may be unable to grow. acquisitions that appear to be accretive may nevertheless reduce our cash from operations on a per-share basis. any acquisition involves potential risks that may include, among other things: inaccurate assumptions about volumes, revenues and costs, including potential synergies; an inability to integrate successfully the businesses we acquire; decrease in our liquidity as a result of our using a significant portion of our available cash or borrowing capacity to finance the acquisition; a significant increase in our interest expense or financial leverage if we incur additional debt to finance the acquisition; the assumption of unknown liabilities for which we are not indemnified, our indemnity is inadequate or our insurance policies may exclude from coverage; an inability to hire, train or retain qualified personnel to manage and operate the acquired business and assets; limitations on rights to indemnity from the seller; inaccurate assumptions about the overall costs of equity or debt; the diversion of management's and employees' attention from other business concerns; unforeseen difficulties operating in new product areas or new geographic areas; increased regulatory burdens; customer or key employee losses at an acquired business; and increased regulatory requirements. if we consummate any future acquisitions, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly, and investors will not have the opportunity to evaluate the economic, financial and other relevant information that we will consider in determining the application of our resources to future acquisitions. we may engage in acquisitions, divestitures and other strategic transactions, the success of which may impact our results of operations. we may engage in acquisitions, divestitures and other strategic transactions. if we are unable to integrate successfully businesses that we acquire with our existing business, our results of operations may be affected materially and adversely. similarly, we may from time to time divest portions of our business, which may also affect materially and adversely our results of operations. our established risk-management policies and procedures may not be effective, and employees may violate our risk-management policies. 22 table of contents we have developed and implemented a set of policies and procedures that involve both our senior management and the audit committee of our board of directors to assist us in managing risks associated with, among other things, the marketing, trading and risk-management activities associated with our business segments. our risk policies and procedures are intended to align strategies, processes, people, information technology and business knowledge so that risk is managed throughout the organization. as conditions change and become more complex, current risk measures may fail to assess adequately the relevant risk due to changes in the market and the presence of risks previously unknown to us. additionally, if employees fail to adhere to our policies and procedures or if our policies and procedures are not effective, potentially because of future conditions or risks outside of our control, we may be exposed to greater risk than we had intended. ineffective risk-management policies and procedures or violation of risk-management policies and procedures could have an adverse affect on our earnings, financial position or cash flows. our indebtedness could impair our financial condition and our ability to fulfill our obligations. as of december 31, 2013 , we had total indebtedness for borrowed money of approximately $1.7 billion , which excludes the debt of oneok partners. our indebtedness could have significant consequences. for example, it could: make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our senior notes and our other indebtedness due to the increased debt-service obligations, which could, in turn, result in an event of default on such other indebtedness or our senior notes; impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general business purposes; diminish our ability to withstand a downturn in our business or the economy; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to debt-service payments, reducing the availability of cash for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, or general corporate purposes; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared with our competitors that have proportionately less debt. we are not prohibited under the indentures governing our senior notes from incurring additional indebtedness, but our debt agreements do subject us to certain operational limitations summarized in the next paragraph. if we incur significant additional indebtedness, it could worsen the negative consequences mentioned above and could affect adversely our ability to repay our other indebtedness. our revolving debt agreements with banks contain provisions that restrict our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to expand or pursue our business activities. for example, certain of these agreements contain provisions that, among other things, limit our ability to make loans or investments, make material changes to the nature of our business, merge, consolidate or engage in asset sales, grant liens or make negative pledges. certain agreements also require us to maintain certain financial ratios, which limit the amount of additional indebtedness we can incur, as described in the liquidity and capital resources section of item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation. these restrictions could result in higher costs of borrowing and impair our ability to generate additional cash. future financing agreements we may enter into may contain similar or more restrictive covenants. if we are unable to meet our debt-service obligations, we could be forced to restructure or refinance our indebtedness, seek additional equity capital or sell assets. we may be unable to obtain financing or sell assets on satisfactory terms, or at all. we are subject to risks that could limit our access to capital, thereby increasing our costs and affecting adversely our results of operations. we have grown rapidly in the past as a result of acquisitions. future acquisitions may require additional capital. if we are unable to access capital at competitive rates, our strategy of enhancing the earnings potential of our existing assets, including through acquisitions of complementary assets or businesses, will be affected adversely. a number of factors could affect adversely our ability to access capital, including: (i) general economic conditions; (ii) capital market conditions; (iii) market prices for natural gas, ngls and other hydrocarbons; (iv) the overall health of the energy and related industries; (v) our ability to maintain our investment-grade credit ratings; and (vi) our capital structure. much of our business is capital intensive, and achievement of our long-term growth targets is dependent, at least in part, upon our ability to access capital at rates and on terms we determine to be attractive. if our ability to access capital becomes constrained significantly, our interest costs will likely increase and our financial condition and future results of operations could be harmed significantly. 23 table of contents the cost of providing pension and postretirement health care benefits to eligible employees and qualified retirees is subject to changes in pension fund values and changing demographics and may increase. we have a defined benefit pension plan for certain employees and postretirement welfare plans that provide postretirement medical and life insurance benefits to certain employees who retire with at least five years of service. the cost of providing these benefits to eligible current and former employees is subject to changes in the market value of our pension and postretirement benefit plan assets, changing demographics, including longer life expectancy of plan participants and their beneficiaries and changes in health care costs. for further discussion of our defined benefit pension plan, see note n of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this annual report. any sustained declines in equity markets and reductions in bond yields may have a material adverse effect on the value of our pension and postretirement benefit plan assets. in these circumstances, additional cash contributions to our pension plans may be required. federal, state and local jurisdictions may challenge our tax return positions. the positions taken in our federal and state tax return filings require significant judgments, use of estimates and the interpretation and application of complex tax laws. significant judgment is also required in assessing the timing and amounts of deductible and taxable items. despite management's belief that our tax return positions are fully supportable, certain positions may be successfully challenged by federal, state and local jurisdictions. the separation of one gas could result in substantial tax liability. we have received a private letter ruling from the irs substantially to the effect that, for u.s. federal income tax purposes, the separation and certain related transactions qualify under sections 355 and/or 368 of the u.s. internal revenue code of 1986, as amended. if the factual assumptions or representations made in the request for the private letter ruling prove to have been inaccurate or incomplete in any material respect, then we will not be able to rely on the ruling. furthermore, the irs does not rule on whether a distribution such as the separation satisfies certain requirements necessary to obtain tax-free treatment under section 355 of the code. the private letter ruling was based on representations by us that those requirements were satisfied, and any inaccuracy in those representations could invalidate the ruling. in connection with the separation, we obtained an opinion of outside legal and tax counsel, substantially to the effect that, for u.s. federal income tax purposes, the separation and certain related transactions qualify under sections 355 and 368 of the code. the opinion relies on, among other things, the continuing validity of the private letter ruling and various assumptions and representations as to factual matters made by us which, if inaccurate or incomplete in any material respect, would jeopardize the conclusions reached by such counsel in its opinion. the opinion will not be binding on the irs or the courts, and there can be no assurance that the irs or the courts would not challenge the conclusions stated in the opinion or that any such challenge would not prevail. although we control oneok partners, we may have conflicts of interest with oneok partners that could subject us to claims that we have breached our fiduciary duty to oneok partners and its unitholders. we are the sole general partner and own 41.2 percent of oneok partners. conflicts of interest may arise between us and oneok partners and its unitholders. in resolving these conflicts, we may favor our own interests and the interests of our affiliates over the interests of oneok partners and its unitholders as long as the resolution does not conflict with the oneok partners' partnership agreement or our fiduciary duties to oneok partners and its unitholders. our use of financial instruments to hedge interest-rate risk may result in reduced income. we utilize financial instruments to mitigate our exposure to interest-rate fluctuations. hedging instruments that are used to reduce our exposure to interest-rate fluctuations could expose us to risk of financial loss where we have contracted for variable-rate swap instruments to hedge fixed-rate instruments and the variable rate exceeds the fixed rate. in addition, these hedging arrangements may limit the benefit we would otherwise receive if we had contracted for fixed-rate swap agreements to hedge variable-rate instruments and the variable rate falls below the fixed rate. an impairment of goodwill, long-lived assets, including intangible assets, and equity-method investments could reduce our earnings. goodwill is recorded when the purchase price of a business exceeds the fair market value of the tangible and separately measurable intangible net assets. gaap requires us to test goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives for impairment on an annual basis or when events or circumstances occur indicating that goodwill might be impaired. long-lived 24 table of contents assets, including intangible assets with finite useful lives, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. for the investments oneok partners accounts for under the equity method, the impairment test considers whether the fair value of the equity investment as a whole, not the underlying net assets, has declined and whether that decline is other than temporary. for example, if natural gas production continues to decline in areas of the powder river basin where coal-bed methane, or dry natural gas, is produced, oneok partners could be unable to recover the carrying value of its assets and equity investments in these areas. if oneok partners determines that an impairment is indicated, it would be required to take an immediate noncash charge to earnings with a correlative effect on our equity and balance sheet leverage as measured by consolidated debt to total capitalization. a failure in our operational systems or cyber security attacks on any of our facilities, or those of third parties, may affect adversely our financial results. our businesses are dependent upon our operational systems to process a large amount of data and complex transactions. if any of our financial, operational or other data processing systems fail or have other significant shortcomings, our financial results could be affected adversely. our financial results could also be affected adversely if an employee causes our operational systems to fail, either as a result of inadvertent error or by deliberately tampering with or manipulating our operational systems. in addition, dependence upon automated systems may further increase the risk that operational system flaws, employee tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect. due to increased technology advances, we have become more reliant on technology to help increase efficiency in our businesses. we use computer programs to help run our financial and operations organizations, and this may subject our business to increased risks. any future cyber security attacks that affect our facilities, our customers and any financial data could have a material adverse on our businesses. in addition, cyber attacks on our customer and employee data may result in a financial loss and may impact negatively our reputation. third-party systems on which we rely could also suffer operational system failure. any of these occurrences could disrupt one or more of our businesses, result in potential liability or reputational damage or otherwise have an adverse affect on our financial results. cyber-attacks against us or others in our industry could result in additional regulations. current efforts by the federal government, such as the improving critical infrastructure cybersecurity executive order, and any potential future regulations could lead to increased regulatory compliance costs, insurance coverage cost or capital expenditures. we cannot predict the potential impact to our business or the energy industry resulting from additional regulations. changes in interest rates could affect adversely our business. we use both fixed- and variable-rate debt, and we are exposed to market risk due to the floating interest rates on our short-term borrowings. from time to time, we use interest-rate derivatives to hedge interest obligations on specific debt issuances, including anticipated debt issuances. these hedges may be ineffective, and our results of operations, cash flows and financial position could be affected adversely by significant fluctuations or increases or decreases in interest rates from current levels. a shortage of skilled labor may make it difficult for us to maintain labor productivity and competitive costs, which could affect operations and cash flows available for distribution. our operations require skilled and experienced workers with proficiency in multiple tasks. in recent years, a shortage of workers trained in various skills associated with the midstream energy business has caused us to conduct certain operations without full staff, thus hiring outside resources, which may decrease productivity and increase costs. this shortage of trained workers is the result of experienced workers reaching retirement age and increased competition for workers in certain areas, combined with the difficulty of attracting new workers to the midstream energy industry. this shortage of skilled labor could continue over an extended period. if the shortage of experienced labor continues or worsens, it could have an adverse impact on labor productivity and costs and our ability to expand production in the event there is an increase in the demand for our products and services, which could affect adversely our operations and cash flows available for distribution to unitholders. we are subject to strict regulations at many of our facilities regarding employee safety, and failure to comply with these regulations could affect adversely financial results. the workplaces associated with our facilities are subject to the requirements of osha and comparable state statutes that regulate the protection of the health and safety of workers. the failure to comply with osha requirements or general industry standards, including keeping adequate records or occupational exposure to regulated substances could expose us to civil or 25 table of contents criminal liability, enforcement actions, and regulatory fines and penalties and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. additional risk factors related to oneok partners' business the volatility of natural gas, crude oil and ngl prices could affect adversely oneok partners' cash flows. a significant portion of oneok partners' revenues are derived from the sale of commodities that are received as payment for natural gas gathering and processing services, for the transportation and storage of natural gas, and for the sale of ngls and ngl products in oneok partners' natural gas liquids business. commodity prices have been volatile and are likely to continue to be so in the future. the prices oneok partners receives for its commodities are subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors beyond oneok partners' control, including, but not limited to, the following: overall domestic and global economic conditions; relatively minor changes in the supply of, and demand for, domestic and foreign energy; market uncertainty; the availability and cost of third-party transportation, natural gas processing and natural gas liquids fractionation capacity; the level of consumer product demand and storage inventory levels; ethane rejection; geopolitical conditions impacting supply and demand for natural gas, ngls and crude oil; weather conditions; domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; the price and availability of alternative fuels; speculation in the commodity futures markets; overall domestic and global economic conditions; the price of natural gas, crude oil, ngl and liquefied natural gas imports and exports; the effect of worldwide energy-conservation measures; and the impact of new supplies, new pipelines, processing and fractionation facilities on location price differentials. these external factors and the volatile nature of the energy markets make it difficult to estimate reliably future prices of commodities and the impact commodity price fluctuations have on oneok partners' customers and their need for its services. as commodity prices decline, oneok partners is paid less for its commodities, thereby reducing its cash flow. ngl volumes could decline if it becomes uneconomical for natural gas processors to recover the ethane component of the natural gas stream as a separate product. in addition, crude-oil and natural gas production could also decline due to lower prices. measurement adjustments on oneok partners' pipeline system can be affected materially by changes in estimation, type of commodity and other factors. natural gas and natural gas liquids measurement adjustments occur as part of the normal operating conditions associated with oneok partners' assets. the quantification and resolution of measurement adjustments are complicated by several factors including: (1) the significant number ( i.e ., thousands) of meters that oneok partners uses throughout its natural gas and natural gas liquids systems; (2) varying qualities of natural gas in the streams gathered and processed and the mixed nature of ngls gathered and fractionated through oneok partners' systems; and (3) variances in measurement that are inherent in metering technologies. each of these factors may contribute to measurement adjustments that can occur on oneok partners' systems, which could affect negatively its earnings and cash flows. increased competition could have a significant adverse financial impact on oneok partners. the natural gas and natural gas liquids industries are expected to remain highly competitive. the demand for natural gas and ngls is primarily a function of commodity prices, including prices for alternative energy sources, customer usage rates, weather, economic conditions and service costs. oneok partners' ability to compete also depends on a number of other factors, including competition from other companies for its existing customers, the efficiency, quality and reliability of the services it provides, and competition for throughput at oneok partners' gathering systems, pipelines, processing plants, fractionators and storage facilities. oneok partners cannot predict when it will be subject to changes in legislation or regulation, nor can it predict the impact of these changes on its financial position, results of operations or cash flows. there are no assurances that oneok partners' business will be positioned to effectively compete in the future. 26 table of contents oneok partners does not hedge fully against commodity price changes, time differentials or locational differentials. this could result in decreased revenues and increased costs, thereby resulting in lower margins and adversely affecting its results of operations. certain of oneok partners' nonregulated and regulated businesses are exposed to market risk and the impact of market price fluctuations of natural gas, ngls and crude oil. market risk refers to the risk of loss of cash flows and future earnings arising from adverse changes in commodity prices. oneok partners' primary exposures arise from: the value of the ngls and natural gas it receives in exchange for the natural gas gathering and processing services it provides; the differentials between ngl and natural gas prices associated with its keep-whole contracts and the differentials between the individual ngl products with respect to oneok partners' natural gas liquids transportation and fractionation agreements; the price differentials between the individual ngl products; the ngl price differentials at different locations; the seasonal price differentials of natural gas and ngls related to storage operations; the fuel costs and the value of the retained fuel in-kind in oneok partners' natural gas pipelines and storage operations; and the differential between ethane and natural gas prices. oneok partners also is exposed to the risk of changing prices or the cost of transportation resulting from purchasing natural gas or ngls at one location and selling it at another (referred to as basis risk). to minimize the risk from market price fluctuations of natural gas, ngls and crude oil, oneok partners uses physical forward transactions and commodity financial derivative instruments such as futures contracts, swaps and options to manage market risk of existing or anticipated purchases and sales of natural gas, ngls and crude oil. oneok partners adheres to policies and procedures that monitor its exposure to market risk from open positions. however, it do not hedge fully against commodity price changes, and therefore, it retains some exposure to market risk. accordingly, any adverse changes to commodity prices could result in decreased revenue and/or increased costs. oneok partners' use of financial instruments and physical forward transactions to hedge market risk may result in reduced income. oneok partners utilizes financial instruments and physical forward transactions to mitigate its exposure to interest rate and commodity price fluctuations. hedging instruments that are used to reduce oneok partners' exposure to interest-rate fluctuations could expose it to risk of financial loss where it has contracted for variable-rate swap instruments to hedge fixed-rate instruments and the variable rate exceeds the fixed rate. in addition, these hedging arrangements may limit the benefit oneok partners would otherwise receive if it had contracted for fixed-rate swap agreements to hedge variable-rate instruments and the variable rate falls below the fixed rate. hedging arrangements that are used to reduce oneok partners' exposure to commodity price fluctuations limit the benefit it would otherwise receive if market prices for natural gas, crude oil and ngls exceed the stated price in the hedge instrument for these commodities. the adoption and implementation of new statutory and regulatory requirements for derivative transactions could have an adverse impact on oneok partners' ability to hedge risks associated with its business and increase the working capital requirements to conduct these activities. in july 2010, the dodd-frank act was enacted, which provides new statutory and regulatory requirements for certain swap transactions. certain financial transactions will be required to be cleared on exchanges, and cash collateral will be required for these transactions. however, the dodd-frank act provides for a potential exemption from these clearing and cash collateral requirements for commercial end-users and includes a number of defined terms that will be used in determining how this exemption applies to particular derivative transactions and to the parties to those transactions. additionally, the dodd-frank act calls for various regulatory agencies, including the sec and the cftc, to establish regulations for implementation of many of the provisions of the act. the dodd-frank act represents a far-reaching overhaul of the framework for regulation of united states financial markets. the cftc has issued final regulations for most of the provisions of the dodd-frank act, and oneok partners has implemented measures to comply with the regulations that are applicable to its businesses. oneok partners expects to continue to participate in financial markets for hedging certain risks inherent in its business, including commodity-price and 27 table of contents interest-rate risks. oneok partners continues to monitor proposed regulations and the impact the regulations may have on its business and risk-management strategies in the future. oneok partners' inability to develop and execute growth projects and acquire new assets could result in reduced cash distributions to its unitholders and to oneok. oneok partners' primary business objectives are to generate cash flow sufficient to pay quarterly cash distributions to unitholders and to increase these distributions over time. oneok partners' ability to maintain and grow its distributions to unitholders, including oneok, depends on the growth of its existing businesses and strategic acquisitions. accordingly, if oneok partners is unable to implement business development opportunities and finance such activities on economically acceptable terms, its future growth will be limited, which could impact adversely its and our results of operations and cash flows. growing oneok partners' business by constructing new pipelines and plants or making modifications to its existing facilities subjects oneok partners to construction and supply risks should adequate natural gas or ngl supply be unavailable upon completion of the facilities. one of the ways oneok partners intends to grow its business is through the construction of new pipelines and new gathering, processing, storage and fractionation facilities and through modifications to oneok partners' existing pipelines and existing gathering, processing, storage and fractionation facilities. the construction and modification of pipelines and gathering, processing, storage and fractionation facilities may require significant capital expenditures, which may exceed oneok partners' estimates, and involve numerous regulatory, environmental, political, legal and weather-related uncertainties. construction projects in oneok partners' industry may increase demand for labor, materials and rights of way, which may, in turn, impact oneok partners' costs and schedule. if oneok partners undertakes these projects, it may not be able to complete them on schedule or at the budgeted cost. additionally, oneok partners' revenues may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project. for instance, if oneok partners builds a new pipeline, the construction will occur over an extended period of time, and oneok partners will not receive any material increases in revenues until after completion of the project. oneok partners may have only limited natural gas or ngl supply committed to these facilities prior to their construction. additionally, oneok partners may construct facilities to capture anticipated future growth in production in a region in which anticipated production growth does not materialize. oneok partners may also rely on estimates of proved reserves in its decision to construct new pipelines and facilities, which may prove to be inaccurate because there are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves. as a result, new facilities may not be able to attract enough natural gas or ngls to achieve oneok partners' expected investment return, which could affect materially and adversely oneok partners' results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. if the level of drilling and production in the mid-continent, rocky mountain, texas and gulf coast regions declines substantially near its assets, oneok partners' volumes and revenue could decline. oneok partners' ability to maintain or expand its businesses depends largely on the level of drilling and production by third parties in the mid-continent, rocky mountain, texas and gulf coast regions. drilling and production are impacted by factors beyond oneok partners' control, including: demand and prices for natural gas, ngls and crude oil; producers' finding and developing costs of reserves; producers' desire and ability to obtain necessary permits in a timely and economic manner; natural gas field characteristics and production performance; surface access and infrastructure issues; and capacity constraints on natural gas, crude oil and natural gas liquids infrastructure from the producing areas and oneok partners' facilities. if production from the western canada sedimentary basin remains flat or declines, and demand for natural gas from the western canada sedimentary basin is greater in market areas other than the midwestern united states, demand for oneok partners' interstate gas transportation services could decrease significantly. oneok partners depends on natural gas supply from the western canada sedimentary basin for some of oneok partners' interstate pipelines, primarily viking gas transmission and oneok partners' investment in northern border pipeline, that transport canadian natural gas from the western canada sedimentary basin to the midwestern united states market area. if demand for natural gas increases in canada or other markets not served by oneok partners' interstate pipelines and/or 28 table of contents production remains flat or declines, demand for transportation service on oneok partners' interstate natural gas pipelines could decrease significantly, which could impact adversely oneok partners' results of operations and cash flows. oneok partners' operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions that could affect materially and adversely oneok partners' business and for which neither we nor oneok partners may be insured adequately. oneok partners' operations are subject to all of the risks and hazards typically associated with the operation of natural gas and natural gas liquids gathering, transportation and distribution pipelines, storage facilities and processing and fractionation plants. operating risks include but are not limited to leaks, pipeline ruptures, the breakdown or failure of equipment or processes, and the performance of pipeline facilities below expected levels of capacity and efficiency. other operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions include adverse weather conditions, accidents, explosions, fires, the collision of equipment with oneok partners' pipeline facilities (for example, this may occur if a third party were to perform excavation or construction work near oneok partners' facilities) and catastrophic events such as tornados, hurricanes, earthquakes, floods or other similar events beyond oneok partners' control. it is also possible that oneok partners' facilities could be direct targets or indirect casualties of an act of terrorism. a casualty occurrence might result in injury or loss of life, extensive property damage or environmental damage. liabilities incurred and interruptions to the operations of oneok partners' pipelines or other facilities caused by such an event could reduce revenues generated by oneok partners and increase expenses, thereby impairing our or oneok partners' ability to meet our respective obligations. insurance proceeds may not be adequate to cover all liabilities or expenses incurred or revenues lost, and neither we nor oneok partners are fully insured against all risks inherent in our respective businesses. as a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain insurance policies can increase substantially, and, in some instances, certain insurance may become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. consequently, neither we nor oneok partners may be able to renew existing insurance policies or purchase other desirable insurance on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. if either we or oneok partners were to incur a significant liability for which either we or oneok partners was not insured fully, it could have a material adverse effect on our or oneok partners' financial position and results of operations. further, the proceeds of any such insurance may not be paid in a timely manner and may be insufficient if such an event were to occur. oneok partners does not own all of the land on which its pipelines and facilities are located, and it leases certain facilities and equipment, which could disrupt its operations. oneok partners does not own all of the land on which certain of its pipelines and facilities are located and are, therefore, subject to the risk of increased costs to maintain necessary land use. oneok partners obtains the rights to construct and operate certain of its pipelines and related facilities on land owned by third parties and governmental agencies for a specific period of time. loss of these rights, through its inability to renew right-of-way contracts on acceptable terms or increased costs to renew such rights, could have a material adverse effect on oneok partners' financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. pipeline-integrity programs and repairs may impose significant costs and liabilities. pursuant to a dot rule, pipeline operators are required to develop pipeline integrity-management programs for intrastate and interstate natural gas and natural gas liquids pipelines that could affect high-consequence areas in the event of a release of product. as defined by applicable regulations, high-consequence areas include areas near the route of a pipeline with high-population densities, facilities occupied by persons of limited mobility or indoor or outdoor areas where at least 20 people gather periodically. the rule requires operators to identify pipeline segments that could impact a high-consequence area; improve data collection, integration and characterization of threats applicable to each segment; implement preventive and mitigating actions; perform ongoing assessments of pipeline integrity; and repair and remediate as necessary. these testing programs could cause us and oneok partners to incur significant capital and operating expenditures to make repairs or remediate, as well as initiate preventive or mitigating actions that are determined to be necessary. oneok partners is subject to comprehensive energy regulation by governmental agencies, and the recovery of its costs are dependent on regulatory action. federal, state and local agencies have jurisdiction over many of oneok partners' activities, including regulation by the ferc of its storage and interstate pipeline assets. the profitability of oneok partners' regulated operations is dependent on its ability to pass through costs related to providing energy and other commodities to its customers by filing periodic rate 29 table of contents cases. the regulatory environment applicable to oneok partners' regulated businesses could impair its ability to recover costs historically absorbed by its customers. oneok partners is unable to predict the impact that the future regulatory activities of these agencies will have on its operating results. changes in regulations or the imposition of additional regulations could have an adverse impact on oneok partners' business, financial condition and results of operations. oneok partners' regulated pipelines' transportation rates are subject to review and possible adjustment by federal and state regulators. under the natural gas act, which is applicable to interstate natural gas pipelines, and the interstate commerce act, which is applicable to crude oil and natural gas liquids pipelines, oneok partners' interstate transportation rates, which are regulated by the ferc, must be just and reasonable and not unduly discriminatory. shippers may protest oneok partners' pipeline tariff filings, and the ferc and/or state regulatory agencies may investigate tariff rates. further, the ferc may order refunds of amounts collected under newly filed rates that are determined by the ferc to be in excess of a just and reasonable level. in addition, shippers may challenge by complaint the lawfulness of tariff rates that have become final and effective. the ferc and/or state regulatory agencies also may investigate tariff rates absent shipper complaint. any finding that approved rates exceed a just and reasonable level on the natural gas pipelines would take effect prospectively. in a complaint proceeding challenging natural gas liquids pipeline rates, if the ferc determines existing rates exceed a just and reasonable level, it could require the payment of reparations to complaining shippers for up to two years prior to the complaint. any such action by the ferc or a comparable action by a state regulatory agency could affect adversely oneok partners' pipeline businesses' ability to charge rates that would cover future increases in costs, or even to continue to collect rates that cover current costs and provide for a reasonable return. we can provide no assurance that oneok partners' pipeline systems will be able to recover all of their costs through existing or future rates. oneok partners' regulated pipeline companies have recorded certain assets that may not be recoverable from its customers. accounting policies for ferc-regulated companies permit certain assets that result from the regulated ratemaking process to be recorded on oneok partners' balance sheet that could not be recorded under gaap for nonregulated entities. oneok partners considers factors such as regulatory changes and the impact of competition to determine the probability of future recovery of these assets. if oneok partners determines future recovery is no longer probable, oneok partners would be required to write off the regulatory assets at that time. compliance with environmental regulations that oneok partners is subject to may be difficult and costly. oneok partners is subject to multiple environmental laws and regulations affecting many aspects of present and future operations, including air emissions, water quality, wastewater discharges, solid and hazardous wastes, and hazardous material and substance management. these laws and regulations require oneok partners to obtain and comply with a wide variety of environmental registrations, licenses, permits, inspections and other approvals. failure to comply with these laws, regulations, permits and licenses may expose oneok partners to fines, penalties and/or interruptions in its operations that could be material to its results of operations. if a leak or spill of hazardous substance occurs from oneok partners' pipelines or gathering lines or facilities in the process of transporting natural gas or ngls or at any facility that oneok partners owns, operates or otherwise uses, oneok partners could be held jointly and severally liable for all resulting liabilities, including investigation and clean-up costs, which could affect materially its results of operations and cash flows. in addition, emission controls required under the federal clean air act and other similar federal and state laws could require unexpected capital expenditures at oneok partners' facilities. in addition, the epa issued a rule on air-quality standards, national emission standards for hazardous air pollutants for reciprocating internal combustion engines, also known as rice neshap, with a compliance date in 2013. the rule will require capital expenditures over the next three years for the purchase and installation of new emissions-control equipment. oneok partners does not expect these expenditures to have a material impact on its results of operations, financial position or cash flows. oneok partners cannot assure that existing environmental regulations will not be revised or that new regulations will not be adopted or become applicable to it. revised or additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, particularly if those costs are not fully recoverable from customers, could have a material adverse effect on oneok partners' business, financial condition and results of operations. for further discussion on this topic, see note r of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this annual report. 30 table of contents oneok partners' operations are subject to federal and state laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, which may expose it to significant costs and liabilities. the risk of incurring substantial environmental costs and liabilities is inherent in oneok partners' business. oneok partners' operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into, or otherwise relating to the protection of, the environment. examples of these laws include: the clean air act and analogous state laws that impose obligations related to air emissions; the clean water act and analogous state laws that regulate discharge of waste water from oneok partners' facilities to state and federal waters; the federal cercla and analogous state laws that regulate the cleanup of hazardous substances that may have been released at properties currently or previously owned or operated by oneok partners or locations to which oneok partners has sent waste for disposal; the federal resource conservation and recovery act and analogous state laws that impose requirements for the handling and discharge of solid and hazardous waste from oneok partners' facilities; and an epa-issued rule on air-quality standards, known as rice neshap. various federal and state governmental authorities, including the epa, have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them. violators are subject to administrative, civil and criminal penalties, including civil fines, injunctions or both. joint and several, strict liability may be incurred without regard to fault under the cercla, resource conservation and recovery act and analogous state laws for the remediation of contaminated areas. there is an inherent risk of incurring environmental costs and liabilities in oneok partners' business due to its handling of the products it gathers, transports, processes and stores, air emissions related to its operations, past industry operations and waste disposal practices, some of which may be material. private parties, including the owners of properties through which oneok partners' pipeline systems pass, may have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as to seek damages for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage arising from oneok partners' operations. some sites oneok partners operates are located near current or former third-party hydrocarbon storage and processing operations, and there is a risk that contamination has migrated from those sites to oneok partners' sites. in addition, increasingly strict laws, regulations and enforcement policies could increase significantly oneok partners' compliance costs and the cost of any remediation that may become necessary, some of which may be material. additional information is included under item 1, business under environmental and safety matters and in note r of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this annual report. oneok partners' insurance may not cover all environmental risks and costs or may not provide sufficient coverage in the event an environmental claim is made against oneok partners. oneok partners' business may be affected materially and adversely by increased costs due to stricter pollution-control requirements or liabilities resulting from noncompliance with required operating or other regulatory permits. new environmental regulations might also materially and adversely affect oneok partners' products and activities, and federal and state agencies could impose additional safety requirements, all of which could affect materially oneok partners' profitability. oneok partners may face significant costs to comply with the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions. greenhouse gas emissions originate primarily from combustion engine exhaust, heater exhaust and fugitive methane gas emissions. various federal and state legislative proposals have been introduced to regulate the emission of greenhouse gases, particularly carbon dioxide and methane, and the united states supreme court has ruled that carbon dioxide is a pollutant subject to regulation by the epa. in addition, there have been international efforts seeking legally binding reductions in emissions of greenhouse gases. oneok partners believes it is possible that future governmental legislation and/or regulation may require it either to limit greenhouse gas emissions from its operations or to purchase allowances for such emissions that are actually attributable to its ngl customers. however, it cannot predict precisely what form these future regulations will take, the stringency of the regulations, or when they will become effective. several legislative bills have been introduced in the united states congress that would require carbon dioxide emission reductions. previously considered proposals have included, among other things, limitations on the amount of greenhouse gases that can be emitted (so called caps ) together with systems of emissions allowances. this system could require oneok partners to reduce emissions, even though the technology is not currently available for efficient reduction, or to purchase allowances for such emissions. emissions also could be taxed independently of limits. 31 table of contents in addition to activities on the federal level, state and regional initiatives could also lead to the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions sooner and/or independent of federal regulation. these regulations could be more stringent than any federal regulation or legislation that is adopted. future legislation and/or regulation designed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions could make some of its activities uneconomic to maintain or operate. further, oneok partners may not be able to pass on the higher costs to its customers or recover all costs related to complying with greenhouse gas regulatory requirements. its future results of operations, cash flows or financial condition could be adversely affected if such costs are not recovered through regulated rates or otherwise passed on to its customers. oneok partners continues to monitor legislative and regulatory developments in this area. although the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions may have a material impact on its operations and rates, it is unable to quantify the potential costs of the impacts at this time. oneok partners may not be able to pass on the higher costs to its customers or recover all costs related to complying with greenhouse gas emission regulatory requirements, which could cause material adverse effects on its and our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. oneok partners is subject to physical and financial risks associated with climate change. there is a growing belief that emissions of greenhouse gases may be linked to global climate change. climate change creates physical and financial risk. oneok partners' customers' energy needs vary with weather conditions, primarily temperature and humidity. for residential customers, heating and cooling represent their largest energy use. to the extent weather conditions may be affected by climate change, customers' energy use could increase or decrease depending on the duration and magnitude of any changes. increased energy use due to weather changes may require oneok partners to invest in more pipelines and other infrastructure to serve increased demand. a decrease in energy use due to weather changes may affect its financial condition through decreased revenues. extreme weather conditions in general require more system backup, adding to costs, and can contribute to increased system stresses, including service interruptions. weather conditions outside of oneok partners' operating territory could also have an impact on its revenues. severe weather impacts its operating territories primarily through hurricanes, thunderstorms, tornados and snow or ice storms. to the extent the frequency of extreme weather events increases, this could increase its cost of providing service. oneok partners may not be able to pass on the higher costs to its customers or recover all the costs related to mitigating these physical risks. to the extent financial markets view climate change and emissions of greenhouse gases as a financial risk, this could affect negatively its ability to access capital markets or cause oneok partners to receive less favorable terms and conditions in future financings. its business could be affected by the potential for lawsuits against greenhouse gas emitters, based on links drawn between greenhouse gas emissions and climate change. oneok partners' business is subject to regulatory oversight and potential penalties. the natural gas industry historically has been subject to heavy state and federal regulation that extends to many aspects of oneok partners' businesses and operations, including: rates, operating terms and conditions of service; the types of services oneok partners may offer it customers; construction of new facilities; the integrity, safety and security of facilities and operations; acquisition, extension or abandonment of services or facilities; reporting and information posting requirements; maintenance of accounts and records; and relationships with affiliate companies involved in all aspects of the natural gas and energy businesses. compliance with these requirements can be costly and burdensome. future changes to laws, regulations and policies in these areas may impair oneok partners' ability to compete for business or to recover costs and may increase the cost and burden of operations. oneok partners cannot guarantee that state or federal regulators will authorize any projects or acquisitions that it may propose in the future. moreover, oneok partners cannot guarantee that, if granted, any such authorizations will be made in a timely manner or will be free from potentially burdensome conditions. 32 table of contents failure to comply with all applicable state or federal statutes, rules and regulations and orders, could bring substantial penalties and fines. for example, under the energy policy act of 2005, the ferc has civil penalty authority under the natural gas act to impose penalties for current violations of up to $1 million per day for each violation. finally, oneok partners cannot give any assurance regarding future state or federal regulations under which it will operate or the effect such regulations could have on its business, financial condition and results of operations. demand for natural gas and for certain of oneok partners' products and services is highly weather sensitive and seasonal. the demand for natural gas in our oneok partners segment and for certain of oneok partners' products, such as propane, is weather sensitive and seasonal, with a portion of revenues derived from sales for heating during the winter months. weather conditions influence directly the volume of, among other things, natural gas and propane delivered to customers. deviations in weather from normal levels and the seasonal nature of certain of oneok partners' businesses can create variations in earnings and short-term cash requirements. energy efficiency and technological advances may affect the demand for natural gas and affect adversely oneok partners' operating results. the national trend toward increased energy conservation and technological advances, including installation of improved insulation and the development of more efficient furnaces and other heating devices, may decrease the demand for natural gas by residential customers. more strict energy-conservation measures in the future or technological advances in heating, conservation, energy generation or other devices could affect adversely oneok partners' results of operations and cash flows. in the competition for customers, oneok partners may have significant levels of uncontracted or discounted capacity on its natural gas and natural gas liquids pipelines, processing, fractionation and storage assets. oneok partners' natural gas and natural gas liquids pipelines, processing, fractionation and storage assets compete with other pipelines, processing, fractionation and storage facilities for natural gas and ngl supplies delivered to the markets it serves. as a result of competition, at any given time oneok partners may have significant levels of uncontracted or discounted capacity on its pipelines, processing, fractionation and in its storage assets, which could have a material adverse impact on oneok partners' results of operations and cash flows. oneok partners is exposed to the credit risk of its customers or counterparties, and its credit risk management may not be adequate to protect against such risk. oneok partners is subject to the risk of loss resulting from nonpayment and/or nonperformance by oneok partners' customers or counterparties. oneok partners' customers or counterparties may experience rapid deterioration of their financial condition as a result of changing market conditions or financial difficulties that could impact their creditworthiness or ability to pay oneok partners for its services. oneok partners assesses the creditworthiness of its customers or counterparties and obtains collateral as it deems appropriate. if oneok partners fails to assess adequately the creditworthiness of existing or future customers or counterparties, unanticipated deterioration in their creditworthiness and any resulting nonpayment and/or nonperformance could adversely impact oneok partners' results of operations. in addition, if any of oneok partners' customers or counterparties files for bankruptcy protection, this could have a material negative impact on oneok partners' results of operations and cash flows. any reduction in oneok partners' credit ratings could affect materially and adversely its business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. oneok partners' senior unsecured long-term debt has been assigned an investment-grade rating by moody's of baa2 (stable) and by s&amp;p of bbb (stable) as of february 3, 2014; however, we cannot provide assurance that any of its current ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances in the future so warrant. specifically, if moody's or s&amp;p were to downgrade oneok partners' long-term debt rating, particularly below investment grade, its borrowing costs would increase, which would affect adversely its financial results, and its potential pool of investors and funding sources could decrease. ratings from credit agencies are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold oneok partners' debt securities. each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. 33 table of contents an event of default may require oneok partners to offer to repurchase certain of its senior notes or may impair its ability to access capital. the indentures governing oneok partners' senior notes include an event of default upon the acceleration of other indebtedness of $100 million or more. such events of default would entitle the trustee or the holders of 25 percent in aggregate principal amount of oneok partners' outstanding senior notes to declare those senior notes immediately due and payable in full. oneok partners may not have sufficient cash on hand to repurchase and repay any accelerated senior notes, which may cause oneok partners to borrow money under its credit facilities or seek alternative financing sources to finance the repurchases and repayment. oneok partners could also face difficulties accessing capital or its borrowing costs could increase, impacting its ability to obtain financing for acquisitions or capital expenditures, to refinance indebtedness and to fulfill its debt obligations. oneok partners' indebtedness could impair its financial condition and ability to fulfill its obligations. as of december 31, 2013, oneok partners had total indebtedness of approximately $6.1 billion . its indebtedness could have significant consequences. for example, it could: make it more difficult to satisfy its obligations with respect to its senior notes and other indebtedness, which could in turn result in an event of default on such other indebtedness or its senior notes; impair its ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general business purposes; diminish its ability to withstand a downturn in its business or the economy; require it to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to debt-service payments, thereby reducing the availability of cash for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, distributions to partners and general partnership purposes; limit its flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in its business and the industry in which it operates; and place it at a competitive disadvantage compared with its competitors that have proportionately less debt. oneok partners is not prohibited under the indentures governing its senior notes from incurring additional indebtedness, but its debt agreements do subject it to certain operational limitations summarized in the next paragraph. oneok partners' incurrence of significant additional indebtedness would exacerbate the negative consequences mentioned above and could affect adversely its ability to repay its senior notes and other indebtedness. oneok partners' debt agreements contain provisions that restrict its ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to expand or pursue its business activities. for example, certain of these agreements contain provisions that, among other things, limit its ability to make loans or investments, make material changes to the nature of its business, merge, consolidate or engage in asset sales, grant liens or make negative pledges. certain agreements also require it to maintain certain financial ratios, which limit the amount of additional indebtedness it can incur. for example, the oneok partners credit agreement contains a legal covenant requiring it to maintain a ratio of indebtedness to adjusted ebitda (ebitda, as defined in the oneok partners credit agreement, adjusted for all noncash charges and increased for projected ebitda from certain lender-approved capital expansion projects) of no more than 5.0 to 1. if oneok partners consummates one or more acquisitions in which the aggregate purchase price is $25 million or more, the allowable ratio of indebtedness to adjusted ebitda will increase to 5.5 to 1 for the quarter of the acquisition and the two following quarters. as a result of oneok partners completing the sage creek acquisition on september 30, 2013, and acquiring the remaining 30 percent interest in its maysville facility in the fourth quarter 2013, the allowable ratio of indebtedness to adjusted ebitda increased to 5.5 to1 for the current quarter and will remain at that level through the second quarter 2014. these restrictions could result in higher costs of borrowing and impair its ability to generate additional cash. future financing agreements oneok partners may enter into may contain similar or more restrictive covenants. if oneok partners is unable to meet its debt-service obligations, it could be forced to restructure or refinance its indebtedness, seek additional equity capital or sell assets. it may be unable to obtain financing, raise equity or sell assets on satisfactory terms, or at all. borrowings under the oneok partners credit agreement and its senior notes are nonrecourse to oneok, and oneok does not guarantee the debt, commercial paper or other similar commitments of oneok partners. 34 table of contents oneok partners has adopted certain valuation methodologies that may result in a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between the general partner and the unitholders. the irs may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of its limited partner units. when oneok partners issues additional units or engages in certain other transactions, oneok partners determines the fair market value of its assets and allocates any unrealized gain or loss attributable to its assets to the capital accounts of its unitholders and its general partner. oneok partners' methodology may be viewed as understating the value of its assets. in that case, there may be a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between certain unitholders and the general partner, which may be unfavorable to such unitholders. moreover, under oneok partners' current valuation methods, subsequent purchasers of common units may have a greater portion of their internal revenue code section 743(b) adjustment allocated to oneok partners' tangible assets and a lesser portion allocated to oneok partners' intangible assets. the irs may challenge oneok partners' valuation methods or oneok partners' allocation of the section 743(b) adjustment attributable to oneok partners' tangible and intangible assets, and allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction between the general partner and certain of oneok partners' unitholders. a successful irs challenge to these methods or allocations could affect adversely the amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to oneok partners' unitholders. it also could affect the amount of gain from oneok partners unitholders' sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to oneok partners unitholders' tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions. oneok partners' treatment of a purchaser of common units as having the same tax benefits as the seller could be challenged, resulting in a reduction in value of the common units. because oneok partners cannot match transferors and transferees of common units, oneok partners is required to maintain the uniformity of the economic and tax characteristics of these units in the hands of the purchasers and sellers of these units. oneok partners does so by adopting certain depreciation conventions that do not conform to all aspects of existing united states treasury regulations. a successful irs challenge to these conventions could affect adversely the tax benefits to a unitholder of ownership of the common units and could have a negative impact on their value or result in audit adjustments to oneok partners unitholders' tax returns. increased regulation of exploration and production activities, including hydraulic fracturing, could result in reductions or delays in drilling and completing new oil and natural gas wells, which could impact adversely oneok partners' revenues by decreasing the volumes of unprocessed natural gas and ngls transported on its or its joint ventures' natural gas and natural gas liquids pipelines. the natural gas industry is relying increasingly on natural gas supplies from unconventional sources, such as shale and tight sands. natural gas extracted from these sources frequently requires hydraulic fracturing, which involves the pressurized injection of water, sand, and chemicals into the geologic formation to stimulate natural gas production. recently, there have been initiatives at the federal and state levels to regulate or otherwise restrict the use of hydraulic fracturing, and several states have adopted regulations that impose more stringent permitting, disclosure and well-completion requirements on hydraulic fracturing operations. legislation or regulations placing restrictions on hydraulic fracturing activities could impose operational delays, increased operating costs and additional regulatory burdens on exploration and production operators, which could reduce their production of unprocessed natural gas and, in turn, adversely affect oneok partners' revenues and results of operations by decreasing the volumes of unprocessed natural gas and ngls gathered, treated, processed, fractionated and transported on oneok partners' or its joint ventures' natural gas and natural gas liquids pipelines, several of which gather unprocessed natural gas and ngls from areas where the use of hydraulic fracturing is prevalent. continued development of new supply sources could impact demand. the discovery of unconventional natural gas production areas closer to certain market areas that oneok partners serves may compete with natural gas originating in production areas connected to oneok partners' systems. for example, the marcellus shale in pennsylvania, new york, west virginia and ohio may cause natural gas in supply areas connected to oneok partners' systems to be diverted to markets other than its traditional market areas and may affect capacity utilization adversely on oneok partners' pipeline systems and oneok partners' ability to renew or replace existing contracts at rates sufficient to maintain current revenues and cash flows. in addition, supply volumes from these nonconventional natural gas production areas may compete with and displace volumes from the mid-continent, rocky mountains and canadian supply sources in certain of oneok partners' markets. the displacement of natural gas originating in supply areas connected to oneok partners' pipeline systems by these new supply sources that are closer to the end-use markets could result in lower 35 table of contents transportation revenues, which could have a material adverse impact on oneok partners' business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. a court may use fraudulent conveyance considerations to avoid or subordinate the intermediate partnership's guarantee of certain of oneok partners' senior notes. various applicable fraudulent conveyance laws have been enacted for the protection of creditors. a court may use fraudulent conveyance laws to subordinate or avoid the guarantee of certain of oneok partners' senior notes issued the intermediate partnership. it is also possible that under certain circumstances, a court could hold that the direct obligations of the intermediate partnership could be superior to the obligations under that guarantee. a court could avoid or subordinate the intermediate partnership's guarantee of certain of oneok partners' senior notes in favor of the intermediate partnership's other debts or liabilities to the extent that the court determined either of the following were true at the time the intermediate partnership issued the guarantee: the intermediate partnership incurred the guarantee with the intent to hinder, delay or defraud any of its present or future creditors or the intermediate partnership contemplated insolvency with a design to favor one or more creditors to the total or partial exclusion of others; or the intermediate partnership did not receive fair consideration or reasonable equivalent value for issuing the guarantee and, at the time it issued the guarantee, the intermediate partnership: was insolvent or rendered insolvent by reason of the issuance of the guarantee; was engaged or about to engage in a business or transaction for which its remaining assets constituted unreasonably small capital; or intended to incur, or believed that it would incur, debts beyond its ability to pay such debts as they matured. the measure of insolvency for purposes of the foregoing will vary depending upon the law of the relevant jurisdiction. generally, however, an entity would be considered insolvent for purposes of the foregoing if: the sum of its debts, including contingent liabilities, were greater than the fair saleable value of all of its assets at a fair valuation; the present fair saleable value of its assets was less than the amount that would be required to pay its probable liability on its existing debts, including contingent liabilities, as they become absolute and mature; or it could not pay its debts as they become due. among other things, a legal challenge of the intermediate partnership's guarantee of certain of oneok partners' senior notes on fraudulent conveyance grounds may focus on the benefits, if any, realized by the intermediate partnership as a result of oneok partners' issuance of such senior notes. to the extent the intermediate partnership's guarantee of certain of oneok partners' senior notes is avoided as a result of fraudulent conveyance or held unenforceable for any other reason, the holders of such senior notes would cease to have any claim in respect of the guarantee. oneok partners may be unable to cause its joint ventures to take or not to take certain actions unless some or all of its joint-venture participants agree. oneok partners participates in several joint ventures. due to the nature of some of these arrangements, each participant in these joint ventures has made substantial investments in the joint venture and, accordingly, has required that the relevant charter documents contain certain features designed to provide each participant with the opportunity to participate in the management of the joint venture and to protect its investment, as well as any other assets which may be substantially dependent on or otherwise affected by the activities of that joint venture. these participation and protective features customarily include a corporate governance structure that requires at least a majority-in-interest vote to authorize many basic activities and requires a greater voting interest (sometimes up to 100 percent) to authorize more significant activities. examples of these more significant activities are large expenditures or contractual commitments, the construction or acquisition of assets, borrowing money or otherwise raising capital, transactions with affiliates of a joint-venture participant, litigation and transactions not in the ordinary course of business, among others. thus, without the concurrence of joint-venture participants with enough voting interests, oneok partners may be unable to cause any of its joint ventures to take or not to take certain actions, even though those actions may be in the best interest of oneok partners or the particular joint venture. moreover, any joint-venture owner generally may sell, transfer or otherwise modify its ownership interest in a joint venture, whether in a transaction involving third parties or the other joint-venture owners. any such transaction could result in oneok partners being required to partner with different or additional parties. 36 table of contents oneok partners' operating cash flow is derived partially from cash distributions it receives from its unconsolidated affiliates. oneok partners' operating cash flow is derived partially from cash distributions it receives from its unconsolidated affiliates, as discussed in note p of the notes to consolidated financial statements. the amount of cash that oneok partners' unconsolidated affiliates can distribute principally depends upon the amount of cash flow these affiliates generate from their respective operations, which may fluctuate from quarter to quarter. oneok partners does not have any direct control over the cash distribution policies of its unconsolidated affiliates. this lack of control may contribute to oneok partners' not having sufficient available cash each quarter to continue paying distributions at its current levels. additionally, the amount of cash that oneok partners has available for cash distribution depends primarily upon its cash flow, including cash flow from financial reserves and working capital borrowings, and is not solely a function of profitability, which will be affected by noncash items such as depreciation, amortization and provisions for asset impairments. as a result, oneok partners may be able to make cash distributions during periods when it records losses and may not be able to make cash distributions during periods when it records net income. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 76 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk policy and oversight - we control the scope of risk management, marketing and trading operations through a comprehensive set of policies and procedures involving senior levels of management. the audit committee of our board of directors has oversight responsibilities for our risk-management limits and policies. our risk oversight committee, comprised of corporate and business-segment officers, oversees all activities related to commodity, price and credit risk management, marketing and trading activities and interest rate risk. the committee also monitors risk metrics including var, position limits and mark-to-market losses. we have a risk-control group that is assigned responsibility for establishing and enforcing the policies and procedures and monitoring certain risk metrics. key risk-control activities include risk measurement and monitoring, validation of transactions, portfolio valuation, var and other risk metrics. our exposure to market risk discussed below includes forward-looking statements and represents an estimate of possible changes in future earnings that could occur assuming hypothetical future movements in commodity prices or interest rates. our views on market risk are not necessarily indicative of actual results that may occur and do not represent the maximum possible gains and losses that may occur since actual gains and losses will differ from those estimated based on actual fluctuations in interest rates or commodity prices and the timing of transactions. commodity-price risk we are exposed to commodity-price risk and the impact of market price fluctuations of natural gas, ngls and crude oil. commodity-price risk refers to the risk of loss in cash flows and future earnings arising from adverse changes in energy prices, including the impact on seasonal and location price differentials. to minimize the risk from market price fluctuations of natural gas, ngls and crude oil, we use commodity derivative instruments such as futures, physical forward contracts, swaps and options to manage commodity-price risk associated with existing or anticipated purchase and sale agreements, existing physical natural gas or natural gas liquids in storage and location price differentials. as a result of the accelerated wind down of our energy services segment, we expect our exposure to commodity-price risk to be eliminated; however, oneok partners will continue to have exposure to commodity-price risk which can affect us. oneok partners oneok partners is exposed to commodity-price risk as a result of receiving commodities in exchange for services associated with its pop contracts. less than 2 percent of oneok partners' contracted volume exposure arises from the relative price differential between ngls and natural gas, or the gross processing spread, with respect to its keep-whole contracts. oneok partners is also exposed to basis risk between the various production and market locations where it receives and sells commodities. as part of oneok partners' hedging strategy, oneok partners uses previously described commodity derivative financial instruments and physical-forward contracts to minimize the impact of price fluctuations related to natural gas, ngls and condensate. 76 table of contents as of december 31, 2013 , oneok partners had $8.5 million of commodity-related derivative assets and $8.6 million of commodity-related derivative liabilities, excluding the impact of netting. the following tables set forth oneok partners' hedging information for the periods indicated: year ending december 31, 2014 volumes hedges average price percentage hedged ngls (bbl/d) 9,351 $ 1.19 / gallon 71% condensate (bbl/d) 2,545 $ 2.25 / gallon 75% total (bbl/d) 11,896 $ 1.42 / gallon 72% natural gas (mmbtu/d) 82,808 $ 4.06 / mmbtu 75% year ending december 31, 2015 volumes hedges average price percentage hedged natural gas (mmbtu/d) 48,877 $ 4.19 / mmbtu 41% oneok partners expects its commodity-price risk in its natural gas gathering and processing business to increase in the future as volumes increase under pop contracts with our customers. oneok partners' commodity-price risk is estimated as a hypothetical change in the price of natural gas, ngls and crude oil, excluding the effects of hedging, and assuming normal operating conditions. oneok partners' condensate sales are based on the price of crude oil. oneok partners estimates the following: a $0.10 per mmbtu change in the price of natural gas would change annual net margin by approximately $4.0 million ; a $0.01 per gallon change in the composite price of ngls would change annual net margin by approximately $2.0 million ; and a $1.00 per barrel change in the price of crude oil would change annual net margin by approximately $1.3 million . these estimates do not include any effects on demand for our services or natural gas processing plant operations that might be caused by, or arise in conjunction with, commodity price fluctuations. for example, a change in the gross processing spread may cause a change in the amount of ethane extracted from the natural gas stream, impacting gathering and processing margins for certain contracts. oneok partners is also exposed to price differential risk primarily as a result of ngls in storage, the relative values of the various ngl products to each other, the relative value of ngls to natural gas and the relative value of ngl purchases at one location and sales at another location. oneok partners utilizes physical-forward contracts to reduce earnings volatility related to ngl price fluctuations in the storage and optimization activities of its natural gas liquids business. oneok partners has not entered into any financial instruments with respect to its natural gas liquids business' marketing activities. in addition, oneok partners is exposed to commodity-price risk as its natural gas interstate and intrastate pipelines retain natural gas from its customers for operations or as part of its fee for services provided. when the amount of natural gas consumed in operations by these pipelines differs from the amount provided by its customers, the pipelines must buy or sell natural gas, or store or use natural gas from inventory, which exposes oneok partners to commodity-price risk depending on the regulatory treatment for this activity. to the extent that commodity-price risk in its natural gas pipelines business is not mitigated by fuel cost-recovery mechanisms, oneok partners utilizes physical-forward contracts to reduce the impact of price fluctuations related to natural gas. at december 31, 2013 , there were no hedges in place with respect to natural gas price risk from oneok partners' natural gas pipeline business. natural gas distribution our former natural gas distribution segment uses financial derivative instruments to hedge the cost of anticipated natural gas purchases during the winter heating months to protect its customers from upward volatility in the market price of natural gas. gains or losses associated with these financial derivative instruments are included in, and recoverable through, the monthly purchased-gas cost-adjustment mechanisms. 77 table of contents energy services our energy services segment historically was exposed to commodity-price risk, seasonal and location-price risk and price volatility arising from natural gas in storage, peaking natural gas load requirement contracts, asset management contracts and index-based purchases and sales of natural gas at various market locations. we attempted to mitigate our exposure to commodity-price risk through the use of derivative instruments, which, under certain circumstances, are designated as cash flow or fair value hedges. we were also exposed to commodity-price risk from fixed-price purchases and sales of natural gas, which we hedge with derivative instruments. both the fixed-price purchases and sales and related derivatives are recorded at fair value. fair value component of the energy marketing and risk-management assets and liabilities - the following table sets forth the fair value component of the energy marketing and risk management assets and liabilities, excluding $3.9 million of net liabilities and $27.4 million of net assets at december 31, 2013 and 2012 , respectively, from derivative instruments declared as either fair value or cash flow hedges for the periods indicated: fair value component of energy marketing and risk management assets and liabilities ( thousands of dollars ) net fair value of derivatives outstanding at january 1, 2012 $ 12,609 derivatives reclassified or otherwise settled during the period (15,074 ) fair value of new derivatives entered into during the period 178 other changes in fair value 7,320 net fair value of derivatives outstanding at december 31, 2012 5,033 derivatives reclassified or otherwise settled during the period (1,726 ) fair value of new derivatives entered into during the period (1,460 ) other changes in fair value (3,815 ) net fair value of derivatives outstanding at december 31, 2013 (a) $ (1,968 ) (a) - the maturities of derivatives are based on injection and withdrawal periods from april through march, which is consistent with our business strategy. the maturities are as follows: $0.6 million net assets matures through march 2014 and $2.6 million net liabilities matures through march 2016. the change in the net fair value of derivatives outstanding includes the effect of settled energy contracts and current period changes resulting primarily from newly originated transactions and the impact of market movements on the fair value of energy marketing and risk management assets and liabilities. for further discussion of fair value measurements and trading activities and assumptions used in our trading activities, see the estimates and critical accounting policies section of item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation. also, see notes d and e of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this annual report. var disclosure of commodity-price risk - we measure commodity-price risk in our energy services segment using a var methodology, which estimates the expected maximum loss of our portfolio over a specified time horizon within a given confidence interval. our var calculations are based on the monte carlo approach. the quantification of commodity-price risk using var provides a consistent measure of risk across diverse energy markets and products with different risk factors in order to set overall risk tolerance and to determine risk thresholds. the use of this methodology requires a number of key assumptions, including the selection of a confidence level and the holding period to liquidation. historical data is used to estimate our var with more weight given to recent data, which is considered a more relevant predictor of immediate future commodity market movements. other assumptions include a distribution of prices and historical data to calculate volatility and price correlations. we rely on var to determine the potential reduction in the portfolio values arising from changes in market conditions over a defined period. while management believes that the referenced assumptions and approximations are reasonable, no uniform industry methodology exists for estimating var. different assumptions and approximations could produce materially different var estimates. our var exposure represents an estimate of potential losses that would be recognized due to adverse commodity-price movements in our energy services segment's portfolio of derivative financial instruments, physical commodity contracts, leased transport, storage capacity contracts and natural gas in storage. a one-day time horizon and a 95 percent confidence level are used in our var data. actual future gains and losses will differ from those estimated by the var calculation based on actual fluctuations in commodity prices, operating exposures and timing thereof, and the changes in our derivative financial instruments, physical contracts and natural gas in storage. var information should be evaluated in light of these assumptions and the methodology's other limitations. 78 table of contents the potential impact on our future earnings, as measured by var, was $0.1 million and $1.5 million at december 31, 2013 and 2012 , respectively. the following table sets forth the average, high and low var calculations for the periods indicated: years ended december 31, value-at-risk 2013 2012 ( millions of dollars ) average $ 1.0 $ 2.6 high $ 2.7 $ 4.0 low $ 0.1 $ 1.4 our var calculation includes derivatives, executory storage and transportation agreements and their related hedges. the variations in the var data reflect market volatility and changes in our portfolio during the year. the decrease in average var for 2013, compared with 2012, was due primarily to the decrease in total storage and transportation capacity as a result of the wind down of our energy services segment. to the extent open commodity positions exist, fluctuating commodity prices can impact our financial results and financial position either favorably or unfavorably. as a result, we cannot predict with precision the impact risk-management decisions may have on our business, operating results or financial position. interest-rate risk general - we manage interest-rate risk through the use of fixed-rate debt, floating-rate debt and interest-rate swaps. interest-rate swaps are agreements to exchange interest payments at some future point based on specified notional amounts. at december 31, 2013 and 2012, oneok partners had forward-starting interest-rate swaps with notional amounts totaling $400 million that have been designated as cash flow hedges of the variability of interest payments on a portion of forecasted debt issuances that may result from changes in the benchmark interest rate before the debt is issued. future issuances of long-term debt could be impacted by recent increases in interest rates, which could result in higher interest costs. at december 31, 2013 and 2012, oneok partners had derivative assets of $54.5 million and $10.9 million , respectively, related to these interest-rate swaps. counterparty credit risk oneok and oneok partners assess the creditworthiness of their counterparties on an ongoing basis and require security, including prepayments and other forms of collateral, when appropriate. 79 table of contents this page intentionally left blank. 80 table of contentsrisk factors 21 risk factors our investors should consider the following risks that could affect us and our business. although we have tried to discuss key factors, our investors need to be aware that other risks may prove to be important in the future. new risks may emerge at any time, and we cannot predict such risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect our financial performance. risks related to oneok partners' business discussed below will also affect us indirectly as we are the sole general partner and, as of december 31, 2014, owned 37.8 percent of oneok partners. investors should carefully consider the following discussion of risks and the other information included or incorporated by reference in this annual report, including forward-looking statements, which are included in item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. risk factors inherent in oneok's business our cash flow depends heavily on the earnings and distributions of oneok partners. our partnership interest in oneok partners is our primary cash-generating source. therefore, our cash flow is heavily dependent upon the ability of oneok partners to make distributions to its partners. a significant decline in oneok partners' earnings and/or cash distributions could have a corresponding negative impact on us. for information on the risk factors inherent in the business of oneok partners, see the section below entitled additional risk factors related to oneok partners' business and item 1a, risk factors in the oneok partners' annual report. our indebtedness could impair our financial condition and our ability to fulfill our obligations. as of december 31, 2014 , we had total indebtedness for borrowed money of approximately $1.1 billion , which excludes the debt of oneok partners. our indebtedness could have significant consequences. for example, it could: make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our senior notes and our other indebtedness due to the increased debt-service obligations, which could, in turn, result in an event of default on such other indebtedness or our senior notes; impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general business purposes; diminish our ability to withstand a downturn in our business or the economy; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to debt-service payments, reducing the availability of cash for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, dividends or general corporate purposes; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which oneok partners operates; and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared with our competitors that have proportionately less debt. we are not prohibited under the indentures governing our senior notes from incurring additional indebtedness, but our debt agreements do subject us to certain operational limitations summarized in the next paragraph. if we incur significant additional indebtedness, it could worsen the negative consequences mentioned above and could affect adversely our ability to repay our other indebtedness. our revolving debt agreements with banks contain provisions that restrict our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to expand or pursue our business activities. for example, certain of these agreements contain provisions that, among other things, limit our ability to make loans or investments, make material changes to the nature of our business, merge, consolidate or engage in asset sales, grant liens or make negative pledges. certain agreements also require us to maintain certain financial ratios, which limit the amount of additional indebtedness we can incur, as described in the liquidity and capital resources section of item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation. these restrictions could result in higher costs of borrowing and impair our ability to generate additional cash. future financing agreements we may enter into may contain similar or more restrictive covenants. 21 table of contents if we are unable to meet our debt-service obligations, we could be forced to restructure or refinance our indebtedness, seek additional equity capital or sell assets. we may be unable to obtain financing or sell assets on satisfactory terms, or at all. the cost of providing pension and postretirement health care benefits to eligible employees and qualified retirees is subject to changes in pension fund values and changing demographics and may increase. we have a defined benefit pension plan for certain employees and postretirement welfare plans that provide postretirement medical and life insurance benefits to certain employees who retire with at least five years of service. the cost of providing these benefits to eligible current and former employees is subject to changes in the market value of our pension and postretirement benefit plan assets, changing demographics, including longer life expectancy of plan participants and their beneficiaries and changes in health care costs. for further discussion of our defined benefit pension plan, see note n of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this annual report. any sustained declines in equity markets and reductions in bond yields may have a material adverse effect on the value of our pension and postretirement benefit plan assets. in these circumstances, additional cash contributions to our pension plans may be required, which could aversely impact our business, financial condition and liquidity. federal, state and local jurisdictions may challenge our tax return positions. the positions taken in our federal and state tax return filings require significant judgments, use of estimates and the interpretation and application of complex tax laws. significant judgment is also required in assessing the timing and amounts of deductible and taxable items. despite management's belief that our tax return positions are fully supportable, certain positions may be successfully challenged by federal, state and local jurisdictions. the separation of one gas could result in substantial tax liability. we have received a private letter ruling from the irs substantially to the effect that, for u.s. federal income tax purposes, the separation and certain related transactions qualify under sections 355 and/or 368 of the u.s. internal revenue code of 1986, as amended. if the factual assumptions or representations made in the request for the private letter ruling prove to have been inaccurate or incomplete in any material respect, then we will not be able to rely on the ruling. furthermore, the irs does not rule on whether a distribution such as the separation satisfies certain requirements necessary to obtain tax-free treatment under section 355 of the code. the private letter ruling was based on representations by us that those requirements were satisfied, and any inaccuracy in those representations could invalidate the ruling. in connection with the separation, we obtained an opinion of outside legal and tax counsel, substantially to the effect that, for u.s. federal income tax purposes, the separation and certain related transactions qualify under sections 355 and 368 of the code. the opinion relies on, among other things, the continuing validity of the private letter ruling and various assumptions and representations as to factual matters made by us which, if inaccurate or incomplete in any material respect, would jeopardize the conclusions reached by such counsel in its opinion. the opinion will not be binding on the irs or the courts, and there can be no assurance that the irs or the courts would not challenge the conclusions stated in the opinion or that any such challenge would not prevail. although we control oneok partners, we may have conflicts of interest with oneok partners that could subject us to claims that we have breached our fiduciary duty to oneok partners and its unitholders. we are the sole general partner and owned 37.8 percent of oneok partners as of december 31, 2014. conflicts of interest may arise between us and oneok partners and its unitholders. in resolving these conflicts, we may favor our own interests and the interests of our affiliates over the interests of oneok partners and its unitholders as long as the resolution does not conflict with the oneok partners' partnership agreement or our fiduciary duties to oneok partners and its unitholders. risk factors inherent in both oneok and oneok partners market volatility and capital availability could affect adversely our business. the capital and global credit markets have experienced volatility and disruption in the past. in many cases during these periods, the capital markets have exerted downward pressure on equity values and reduced the credit capacity for certain companies. oneok partners' ability to grow could be constrained if it does not have regular access to the capital and global credit markets. similar or more severe levels of global market disruption and volatility may have an adverse affect on us or oneok partners resulting from, but not limited to, disruption of access to capital and credit markets, difficulty in obtaining financing necessary to expand facilities or acquire assets, increased financing costs and increasingly restrictive covenants. 22 table of contents our operating results may be affected materially and adversely by unfavorable economic and market conditions. economic conditions worldwide have from time to time contributed to slowdowns in the oil and natural gas industry, as well as in the specific segments and markets in which oneok partners operates, resulting in reduced demand and increased price competition for its products and services. oneok partners' operating results in one or more geographic regions may also be affected by uncertain or changing economic conditions within that region. volatility in commodity prices may have an impact on many of oneok partners' customers, which, in turn, could have a negative impact on their ability to meet their obligations to oneok partners. if global economic and market conditions (including volatility in commodity markets) or economic conditions in the united states or other key markets remain uncertain or persist, spread or deteriorate further, we and oneok partners may experience material impacts on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. terrorist attacks directed at our or oneok partners' facilities could affect adversely our business. since the terrorist attacks on september 11, 2001, the united states government has issued warnings that energy assets, specifically the nation's pipeline infrastructure, may be future targets of terrorist organizations. these developments may subject oneok partners' operations to increased risks. any future terrorist attack that targets oneok partners' facilities, those of its customers and, in some cases, those of other pipelines, or our facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business. our businesses are subject to market and credit risks. we and oneok partners are exposed to market and credit risks in all of our operations. to reduce the impact of commodity price fluctuations, oneok partners uses derivative transactions, such as swaps, futures and forwards, to hedge anticipated purchases and sales of natural gas, ngls and crude oil and firm transportation commitments. interest-rate swaps are also used to manage interest-rate risk. however, derivative instruments do not eliminate the risks. specifically, such risks include commodity price changes, market supply shortages, interest-rate changes and counterparty default. the impact of these variables could result in our and oneok partners' inability to fulfill contractual obligations, significantly higher energy or fuel costs relative to corresponding sales contracts, or increased interest expense. we or oneok partners may not be able to make additional strategic acquisitions or investments. our and oneok partners' ability to make strategic acquisitions and investments will depend on: the extent to which acquisitions and investment opportunities become available; success in bidding for the opportunities that do become available; regulatory approval, if required, of the acquisitions or investments on favorable terms; and access to capital, including the ability to use our or equity in acquisitions or investments, and the terms upon which we obtain capital. if we or oneok partners are unable to make strategic investments and acquisitions, we or oneok partners may be unable to grow. acquisitions that appear to be accretive may nevertheless reduce our cash from operations on a per-share basis. any acquisition involves potential risks that may include, among other things: inaccurate assumptions about volumes, revenues and costs, including potential synergies; an inability to integrate successfully the businesses we acquire; decrease in our liquidity as a result of our using a significant portion of our available cash or borrowing capacity to finance the acquisition; a significant increase in our interest expense and/or financial leverage if we incur additional debt to finance the acquisition; the assumption of unknown liabilities for which we are not indemnified, our indemnity is inadequate or our insurance policies may exclude from coverage; an inability to hire, train or retain qualified personnel to manage and operate the acquired business and assets; limitations on rights to indemnity from the seller; inaccurate assumptions about the overall costs of equity or debt; the diversion of management's and employees' attention from other business concerns; unforeseen difficulties operating in new product areas or new geographic areas; increased regulatory burdens; 23 table of contents customer or key employee losses at an acquired business; and increased regulatory requirements. if we or oneok partners consummate any future acquisitions, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly, and investors will not have the opportunity to evaluate the economic, financial and other relevant information that we will consider in determining the application of our resources to future acquisitions. we or oneok partners may engage in acquisitions, divestitures and other strategic transactions, the success of which may impact results of operations. we or oneok partners may engage in acquisitions, divestitures and other strategic transactions. if we or oneok partners are unable to integrate successfully businesses that we acquire with our respective existing businesses, our results of operations may be affected materially and adversely. similarly, we or oneok partners may from time to time divest portions of our respective businesses, which may also affect materially and adversely our results of operations. our and oneok partners' established risk-management policies and procedures may not be effective, and employees may violate our risk-management policies. we have developed and implemented a comprehensive set of policies and procedures that involve both our senior management and the audit committee of our board of directors to assist us in managing risks associated with, among other things, the marketing, trading and risk-management activities associated with our business segments. our risk policies and procedures are intended to align strategies, processes, people, information technology and business knowledge so that risk is managed throughout the organization. as conditions change and become more complex, current risk measures may fail to assess adequately the relevant risk due to changes in the market and the presence of risks previously unknown to us. additionally, if employees fail to adhere to our policies and procedures or if our policies and procedures are not effective, potentially because of future conditions or risks outside of our control, we may be exposed to greater risk than we had intended. ineffective risk-management policies and procedures or violation of risk-management policies and procedures could have an adverse affect on our earnings, financial position or cash flows. our use of financial instruments to hedge interest-rate risk may result in reduced income. we and oneok partners utilize financial instruments and physical-forward transactions to mitigate our exposure to interest-rate fluctuations. hedging instruments that are used to reduce our exposure to interest-rate fluctuations could expose us to risk of financial loss, including where we have contracted for variable-rate swap instruments to hedge fixed-rate instruments and the variable rate exceeds the fixed rate. in addition, these hedging arrangements may limit the benefit we would otherwise receive if we had contracted for fixed-rate swap agreements to hedge variable-rate instruments and the variable rate falls below the fixed rate. an impairment of goodwill, long-lived assets, including intangible assets, and equity-method investments could reduce our earnings. goodwill is recorded when the purchase price of a business exceeds the fair market value of the tangible and separately measurable intangible net assets. gaap requires us to test goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives for impairment on an annual basis or when events or circumstances occur indicating that goodwill might be impaired. long-lived assets, including intangible assets with finite useful lives, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. for the investments oneok partners accounts for under the equity method, the impairment test considers whether the fair value of the equity investment as a whole, not the underlying net assets, has declined and whether that decline is other than temporary. for example, if the current energy commodity price environment persists for a prolonged period or further declines, it could result in lower volumes delivered to oneok partners' systems and impairments of oneok partners' assets or equity method investments. if we determine that an impairment is indicated, we would be required to take an immediate noncash charge to earnings with a correlative effect on our equity and balance sheet leverage as measured by consolidated debt to total capitalization. 24 table of contents a breach of information security, including a cybersecurity attack, or failure in of one or more key information technology or operational systems, or those of third parties, may affect adversely our operations, financial results or reputation. our businesses are dependent upon our operational systems to process a large amount of data and complex transactions. the various uses of these it systems, networks and services include, but are not limited to: controlling oneok partners' plants and pipelines with industrial control systems including supervisory control and data acquisition (scada); collecting and storing customer, employee, investor and other stakeholder information and data; processing transactions; summarizing and reporting results of operations; hosting, processing and sharing confidential and proprietary research, business plans and financial information; complying with regulatory, legal or tax requirements; providing data security; and handling other processing necessary to manage our business. if any of our systems are damaged, fail to function properly or otherwise become unavailable, we may incur substantial costs to repair or replace them and may experience loss or corruption of critical data and interruptions or delays in our ability to perform critical functions, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. our financial results could also be affected adversely if an employee causes our operational systems to fail, either as a result of inadvertent error or by deliberately tampering with or manipulating our operational systems. in addition, dependence upon automated systems may further increase the risk that operational system flaws, employee tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect. due to increased technology advances, we have become more reliant on technology to help increase efficiency in our businesses. we use computer programs to help run our financial and operations organizations, and this may subject our business to increased risks. in recent years, there has been a rise in the number of cyberattacks on companies' network and information systems by both state-sponsored and criminal organizations, and as a result, the risks associated with such an event continue to increase. a significant failure, compromise, breach or interruption in our systems could result in a disruption of our operations, customer dissatisfaction, damage to our reputation and a loss of customers or revenues. if any such failure, interruption or similar event results in the improper disclosure of information maintained in our information systems and networks or those of our vendors, including personnel, customer and vendor information, we could also be subject to liability under relevant contractual obligations and laws and regulations protecting personal data and privacy. efforts by us and our vendors to develop, implement and maintain security measures may not be successful in preventing these events from occurring, and any network and information systems-related events could require us to expend significant resources to remedy such event. although we believe that we have robust information security procedures and other safeguards in place, as cyberthreats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend additional resources to continue to enhance our information security measures and/or to investigate and remediate information security vulnerabilities. cyberattacks against us or others in our industry could result in additional regulations. current efforts by the federal government, such as the improving critical infrastructure cybersecurity executive order, and any potential future regulations could lead to increased regulatory compliance costs, insurance coverage cost or capital expenditures. we cannot predict the potential impact to our business or the energy industry resulting from additional regulations. changes in interest rates could affect adversely our business. we use both fixed- and variable-rate debt, and we are exposed to market risk due to the floating interest rates on our short-term borrowings. from time to time, we use interest-rate derivatives to hedge interest obligations on specific debt issuances, including anticipated debt issuances. these hedges may be ineffective, and our results of operations, cash flows and financial position could be affected adversely by significant fluctuations or increases or decreases in interest rates from current levels. a shortage of skilled labor may make it difficult for us to maintain labor productivity and competitive costs, which could affect operations and cash flows available for distribution. our operations require skilled and experienced workers with proficiency in multiple tasks. in recent years, a shortage of workers trained in various skills associated with the midstream energy business has caused us to conduct certain operations without full staff, thus hiring outside resources, which may decrease productivity and increase costs. this shortage of trained workers is the result of experienced workers reaching retirement age and increased competition for workers in certain areas, 25 table of contents combined with the difficulty of attracting new workers to the midstream energy industry. this shortage of skilled labor could continue over an extended period. if the shortage of experienced labor continues or worsens, it could have an adverse impact on labor productivity and costs and our ability to expand production in the event there is an increase in the demand for our products and services, which could affect adversely our operations and cash flows available for distribution to oneok partners' unitholders and, in turn, to cash flows available for dividends to oneok shareholders. additional risk factors related to oneok partners' business risks related to oneok partners' business discussed below will also affect us as we are the sole general partner and, as of december 31, 2014, owned 37.8 percent of oneok partners. increased competition could have a significant adverse financial impact on oneok partners' business. the natural gas and natural gas liquids industries are expected to remain highly competitive. the demand for natural gas and ngls is primarily a function of commodity prices, including prices for alternative energy sources, customer usage rates, weather, economic conditions and service costs. oneok partners' ability to compete also depends on a number of other factors, including competition from other companies for its existing customers; the efficiency, quality and reliability of the services it provides; and competition for throughput at its gathering systems, pipelines, processing plants, fractionators and storage facilities. the volatility of natural gas, crude oil and ngl prices could affect adversely oneok partners' cash flows. a significant portion of oneok partners' revenues are derived from the sale of commodities that are received as payment for natural gas gathering and processing services, for the transportation and storage of natural gas, and from the purchase and sale of ngls and ngl products. commodity prices have been volatile and are likely to continue to be so in the future. the prices oneok partners receives for its commodities are subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors beyond oneok partners' control, including, but not limited to, the following: overall domestic and global economic conditions; relatively minor changes in the supply of, and demand for, domestic and foreign energy; market uncertainty; the availability and cost of third-party transportation, natural gas processing and fractionation capacity; the level of consumer product demand and storage inventory levels; ethane rejection; geopolitical conditions impacting supply and demand for natural gas, ngls and crude oil; weather conditions; domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; the price and availability of alternative fuels; speculation in the commodity futures markets; overall domestic and global economic conditions; the effects of imports and exports on the price of natural gas, crude oil, ngl and liquefied natural gas; the effect of worldwide energy-conservation measures; and the impact of new supplies, new pipelines, processing and fractionation facilities on location price differentials. these external factors and the volatile nature of the energy markets make it difficult to estimate reliably future prices of commodities and the impact commodity price fluctuations have on oneok partners' customers and their need for its services. as commodity prices decline, oneok partners is paid less for its commodities, thereby reducing its cash flow. ngl volumes could decline if it becomes uneconomical for natural gas processors to recover the ethane component of the natural gas stream as a separate product. in addition, crude oil, natural gas and ngl production could also decline due to lower prices. some of oneok partners' nonregulated businesses have a higher level of risk than its regulated businesses. some of oneok partners' nonregulated operations, which include its natural gas gathering and processing business and most of its natural gas liquids business, have a higher level of risk than its regulated operations, which include a portion of its natural gas pipelines business and a portion of its natural gas liquids business. oneok partners expects to continue investing in natural gas and natural gas liquids projects and other related projects, some or all of which may involve nonregulated businesses or assets. these projects could involve risks associated with operational factors, such as competition and dependence on certain suppliers and customers; and financial, economic and political factors, such as rapid and significant 26 table of contents changes in commodity prices, the cost and availability of capital and counterparty risk, including the inability of a counterparty, customer or supplier to fulfill a contractual obligation. measurement adjustments on oneok partners' pipeline system can be affected materially by changes in estimation, type of commodity and other factors. natural gas and natural gas liquids measurement adjustments occur as part of the normal operating conditions associated with oneok partners' assets. the quantification and resolution of measurement adjustments are complicated by several factors including: (1) the significant number ( i.e ., thousands) of meters that oneok partners uses throughout its natural gas and natural gas liquids systems, primarily around its gathering and processing assets; (2) varying qualities of natural gas in the streams gathered and processed and the mixed nature of ngls gathered and fractionated through oneok partners' systems; and (3) variances in measurement that are inherent in metering technologies. each of these factors may contribute to measurement adjustments that can occur on oneok partners' systems, which could affect negatively its business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. oneok partners does not hedge fully against commodity price changes, seasonal price differentials, product price differentials or locational price differentials. this could result in decreased revenues and increased costs and lower margins, adversely affecting its results of operations. certain of oneok partners' businesses are exposed to market risk and the impact of market fluctuations of natural gas, ngls and crude oil prices. market risk refers to the risk of loss of cash flows and future earnings arising from adverse changes in commodity prices. oneok partners' primary commodity price exposures arise from: the value of the ngls and natural gas it receives in exchange for the natural gas gathering and processing services it provides; the price differentials between the individual ngl products with respect to oneok partners' ngl transportation and fractionation agreements; the location price differentials in the price of natural gas and ngls with respect to oneok partners' natural gas and ngl transportation businesses; the seasonal price differentials of natural gas and ngls related to storage operations; and the fuel costs and the value of the retained fuel in-kind in oneok partners' natural gas pipelines and storage operations. to manage the risk from market price fluctuations of natural gas, ngls and crude oil prices, oneok partners uses derivative instruments such as swaps, futures and forwards swaps. however, it does not hedge fully against commodity price changes, and therefore, it retains some exposure to market risk. accordingly, any adverse changes to commodity prices could result in decreased revenue and increased costs. oneok partners' use of financial instruments and physical forward transactions to hedge market risk may result in reduced income. oneok partners utilizes financial instruments and physical forward transactions to mitigate its exposure to interest rate and commodity price fluctuations. hedging instruments that are used to reduce oneok partners' exposure to interest-rate fluctuations could expose it to risk of financial loss where it has contracted for variable-rate swap instruments to hedge fixed-rate instruments and the variable rate exceeds the fixed rate. in addition, these hedging arrangements may limit the benefit oneok partners would otherwise receive if it had contracted for fixed-rate swap agreements to hedge variable-rate instruments and the variable rate falls below the fixed rate. hedging arrangements that are used to reduce oneok partners' exposure to commodity price fluctuations limit the benefit it would otherwise receive if market prices for natural gas, crude oil and ngls exceed the stated price in the hedge instrument for these commodities. oneok partners' inability to develop and execute growth projects and acquire new assets could result in reduced cash distributions to its unitholders and to oneok. oneok partners' primary business objectives are to generate cash flow sufficient to pay quarterly cash distributions to unitholders and to increase these distributions over time. oneok partners' ability to maintain and grow its distributions to unitholders, including oneok, depends on the growth of its existing businesses and strategic acquisitions. if oneok partners is unable to implement business development opportunities and finance such activities on economically acceptable terms, its future growth will be limited, which could impact adversely its and our results of operations and cash flows. 27 table of contents oneok partners is subject to risks that could limit its access to capital, thereby increasing its costs and affecting adversely its results of operations. much of oneok partners' business is capital intensive, and achievement of its long-term growth targets is dependent, at least in part, upon its ability to access capital at rates and on terms it determines to be attractive. oneok partners has grown rapidly in the past due in part to capital-growth projects and acquisitions. future capital-growth projects and acquisitions may require additional capital. if oneok partners is unable to access capital at competitive rates, its strategy of enhancing the earnings potential of its existing assets, including capital-growth acquisitions of complementary assets or businesses, will be affected adversely. a number of factors could affect adversely oneok partners' ability to access capital, including: (i) general economic conditions; (ii) capital market conditions; (iii) market prices for natural gas, ngls and other hydrocarbons; (iv) the overall health of the energy and related industries; (v) ability to maintain investment-grade credit ratings; (vi) unit price and (vii) capital structure. if oneok partners' ability to access capital becomes constrained significantly, its interest costs and cost of equity will likely increase and its financial condition and future results of operations could be harmed significantly. growing oneok partners' business by constructing new pipelines and plants or making modifications to its existing facilities subjects oneok partners to construction and supply risks should adequate natural gas or ngl supply be unavailable upon completion of the facilities. one of the ways oneok partners intends to grow its business is through the construction of new pipelines and new gathering, processing, storage and fractionation facilities and through modifications to oneok partners' existing pipelines and existing gathering, processing, storage and fractionation facilities. the construction and modification of pipelines and gathering, processing, storage and fractionation facilities may require significant capital expenditures, which may exceed oneok partners' estimates, and involve numerous regulatory, environmental, political, legal and weather-related uncertainties. construction projects in oneok partners' industry may increase demand for labor, materials and rights of way, which may, in turn, impact oneok partners' costs and schedule. if oneok partners undertakes these projects, it may not be able to complete them on schedule or at the budgeted cost. additionally, oneok partners' revenues may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project. for instance, if oneok partners builds a new pipeline, the construction will occur over an extended period of time, and oneok partners will not receive any material increases in revenues until after completion of the project. oneok partners may have only limited natural gas or ngl supply committed to these facilities prior to their construction. additionally, oneok partners may construct facilities to capture anticipated future growth in production in a region in which anticipated production growth does not materialize. oneok partners may also rely on estimates of proved reserves in its decision to construct new pipelines and facilities, which may prove to be inaccurate because there are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves. as a result, new facilities may not be able to attract enough natural gas or ngls to achieve oneok partners' expected investment return, which could affect materially and adversely oneok partners' results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. if the level of drilling and production in the mid-continent, rocky mountain, texas and gulf coast regions declines substantially near its assets, oneok partners' volumes and revenue could decline. oneok partners' ability to maintain or expand its businesses depends largely on the level of drilling and production by third parties in the mid-continent, rocky mountain, texas and gulf coast regions. drilling and production are impacted by factors beyond oneok partners' control, including: demand and prices for natural gas, ngls and crude oil; producers' finding and developing costs of reserves; producers' desire and ability to obtain necessary permits in a timely and economic manner; natural gas field characteristics and production performance; surface access and infrastructure issues; and capacity constraints on natural gas, crude oil and natural gas liquids infrastructure from the producing areas and oneok partners' facilities. if production from the western canada sedimentary basin remains flat or declines, and demand for natural gas from the western canada sedimentary basin is greater in market areas other than the midwestern united states, demand for oneok partners' interstate gas transportation services could decrease significantly. oneok partners depends on a portion of natural gas supply from the western canada sedimentary basin for some of oneok partners' interstate pipelines, primarily viking gas transmission and oneok partners' investment in northern border pipeline, that transport canadian natural gas from the western canada sedimentary basin to the midwestern united states market area. if demand for natural gas increases in canada or other markets not served by oneok partners' interstate 28 table of contents pipelines and/or production remains flat or declines, demand for transportation service on oneok partners' interstate natural gas pipelines could decrease significantly, which could impact adversely its and our results of operations and cash flows. mergers between oneok partners' customers and competitors could result in lower volumes being gathered, processed, fractionated, transported or stored on its assets, thereby reducing the amount of cash it generates. mergers between oneok partners' existing customers and its competitors could provide strong economic incentives for the combined entities to utilize their existing gathering, processing, fractionation and/or transportation systems instead of oneok partners' in those markets where the systems compete. as a result, oneok partners could lose some or all of the volumes and associated revenues from these customers, and it could experience difficulty in replacing those lost volumes and revenues. because most of oneok partners' operating costs are fixed, a reduction in volumes could result not only in less revenue but also in a decline in cash flow, which would reduce its ability to pay cash distributions to its unitholders. oneok partners is subject to strict regulations at many of its facilities regarding employee safety, and failure to comply with these regulations could affect adversely oneok partners' business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. the workplaces associated with oneok partners' facilities are subject to the requirements of osha and comparable state statutes that regulate the protection of the health and safety of workers. the failure to comply with osha requirements or general industry standards, including keeping adequate records or occupational exposure to regulated substances could expose it to civil or criminal liability, enforcement actions, and regulatory fines and penalties and could have a material adverse effect on oneok partners' business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. oneok partners' operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions that could affect materially and adversely oneok partners' business and for which neither we nor oneok partners may be insured adequately. oneok partners' operations are subject to all of the risks and hazards typically associated with the operation of natural gas and natural gas liquids gathering, transportation and distribution pipelines, storage facilities and processing and fractionation plants. operating risks include but are not limited to leaks, pipeline ruptures, the breakdown or failure of equipment or processes, and the performance of pipeline facilities below expected levels of capacity and efficiency. other operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions include adverse weather conditions, accidents, explosions, fires, the collision of equipment with oneok partners' pipeline facilities (for example, this may occur if a third party were to perform excavation or construction work near oneok partners' facilities) and catastrophic events such as tornados, hurricanes, earthquakes, floods or other similar events beyond oneok partners' control. it is also possible that oneok partners' facilities could be direct targets or indirect casualties of an act of terrorism. a casualty occurrence might result in injury or loss of life, extensive property damage or environmental damage. liabilities incurred and interruptions to the operations of oneok partners' pipelines or other facilities caused by such an event could reduce revenues generated by oneok partners and increase expenses, thereby impairing our or oneok partners' ability to meet our respective obligations. insurance proceeds may not be adequate to cover all liabilities or expenses incurred or revenues lost, and neither we nor oneok partners are fully insured against all risks inherent in our respective businesses. as a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain insurance policies can increase substantially, and, in some instances, certain insurance may become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. consequently, neither we nor oneok partners may be able to renew existing insurance policies or purchase other desirable insurance on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. if either we or oneok partners were to incur a significant liability for which either we or oneok partners was not insured fully, it could have a material adverse effect on our or oneok partners' financial position and results of operations. further, the proceeds of any such insurance may not be paid in a timely manner and may be insufficient if such an event were to occur. oneok partners does not own all of the land on which its pipelines and facilities are located, and it leases certain facilities and equipment, which could disrupt its operations. oneok partners does not own all of the land on which certain of its pipelines and facilities are located and are, therefore, subject to the risk of increased costs to maintain necessary land use. oneok partners obtains the rights to construct and operate certain of its pipelines and related facilities on land owned by third parties and governmental agencies for a specific period of time. loss of these rights, through its inability to renew right-of-way contracts on acceptable terms or increased costs to renew such rights, could have a material adverse effect on oneok partners' financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 29 table of contents pipeline-integrity programs and repairs may impose significant costs and liabilities. pursuant to a dot rule, pipeline operators are required to develop pipeline integrity-management programs for intrastate and interstate natural gas and natural gas liquids pipelines that could affect high-consequence areas in the event of a release of product. as defined by applicable regulations, high-consequence areas include areas near the route of a pipeline with high-population densities, facilities occupied by persons of limited mobility or indoor or outdoor areas where at least 20 people gather periodically. the rule requires operators to identify pipeline segments that could impact a high-consequence area; improve data collection, integration and characterization of threats applicable to each segment and implement preventive and mitigating actions; perform ongoing assessments of pipeline integrity; and repair and remediate the pipeline as necessary. these testing programs could cause us and oneok partners to incur significant capital and operating expenditures to make repairs or remediate, as well as initiate preventive or mitigating actions that are determined to be necessary. oneok partners is subject to comprehensive energy regulation by governmental agencies, and the recovery of its costs are dependent on regulatory action. federal, state and local agencies have jurisdiction over many of oneok partners' activities, including regulation by the ferc of its storage and interstate pipeline assets. the profitability of oneok partners' regulated operations is dependent on its ability to pass through costs related to providing energy and other commodities to its customers by filing periodic rate cases. the regulatory environment applicable to oneok partners' regulated businesses could impair its ability to recover costs historically absorbed by its customers. oneok partners is unable to predict the impact that the future regulatory activities of these agencies will have on its operating results. changes in regulations or the imposition of additional regulations could have an adverse impact on oneok partners' business, financial condition and results of operations. oneok partners' regulated pipelines' transportation rates are subject to review and possible adjustment by federal and state regulators. under the natural gas act, which is applicable to interstate natural gas pipelines, and the interstate commerce act, which is applicable to crude oil and natural gas liquids pipelines, oneok partners' interstate transportation rates, which are regulated by the ferc, must be just and reasonable and not unduly discriminatory. shippers may protest oneok partners' pipeline tariff filings, and the ferc and/or state regulatory agencies may investigate tariff rates. further, the ferc may order refunds of amounts collected under newly filed rates that are determined by the ferc to be in excess of a just and reasonable level. in addition, shippers may challenge by complaint the lawfulness of tariff rates that have become final and effective. the ferc and/or state regulatory agencies also may investigate tariff rates absent shipper complaint. any finding that approved rates exceed a just and reasonable level on the natural gas pipelines would take effect prospectively. in a complaint proceeding challenging natural gas liquids pipeline rates, if the ferc determines existing rates exceed a just and reasonable level, it could require the payment of reparations to complaining shippers for up to two years prior to the complaint. any such action by the ferc or a comparable action by a state regulatory agency could affect adversely oneok partners' pipeline businesses' ability to charge rates that would cover future increases in costs, or even to continue to collect rates that cover current costs and provide for a reasonable return. we can provide no assurance that oneok partners' pipeline systems will be able to recover all of their costs through existing or future rates. oneok partners' regulated pipeline companies have recorded certain assets that may not be recoverable from its customers. accounting policies for ferc-regulated companies permit certain assets that result from the regulated ratemaking process to be recorded on oneok partners' balance sheet that could not be recorded under gaap for nonregulated entities. oneok partners considers factors such as regulatory changes and the impact of competition to determine the probability of future recovery of these assets. if oneok partners determines future recovery is no longer probable, oneok partners would be required to write off the regulatory assets at that time. compliance with environmental regulations that oneok partners is subject to may be difficult and costly. oneok partners is subject to multiple environmental laws and regulations affecting many aspects of present and future operations, including air emissions, water quality, wastewater discharges, solid and hazardous wastes, and hazardous material and substance management. these laws and regulations require oneok partners to obtain and comply with a wide variety of 30 table of contents environmental registrations, licenses, permits, inspections and other approvals. failure to comply with these laws, regulations, permits and licenses may expose oneok partners to fines, penalties and/or interruptions in its operations that could be material to its results of operations. if a leak or spill of hazardous substance occurs from oneok partners' pipelines, gathering lines or facilities in the process of transporting natural gas or ngls or at any facility that oneok partners owns, operates or otherwise uses, oneok partners could be held jointly and severally liable for all resulting liabilities, including investigation and clean-up costs, which could affect materially its results of operations and cash flows. in addition, emission controls required under the federal clean air act and other similar federal and state laws could require unexpected capital expenditures at oneok partners' facilities. oneok partners cannot assure that existing environmental regulations will not be revised or that new regulations will not be adopted or become applicable to it. revised or additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, particularly if those costs are not fully recoverable from customers, could have a material adverse effect on oneok partners' business, financial condition and results of operations. oneok partners' operations are subject to federal and state laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, which may expose it to significant costs and liabilities. the risk of incurring substantial environmental costs and liabilities is inherent in oneok partners' business. oneok partners' operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into, or otherwise relating to the protection of, the environment. examples of these laws include: the clean air act and analogous state laws that impose obligations related to air emissions; the clean water act and analogous state laws that regulate discharge of waste water from oneok partners' facilities to state and federal waters; the federal cercla and analogous state laws that regulate the cleanup of hazardous substances that may have been released at properties currently or previously owned or operated by oneok partners or locations to which oneok partners has sent waste for disposal; and the federal resource conservation and recovery act and analogous state laws that impose requirements for the handling and discharge of solid and hazardous waste from oneok partners' facilities. various federal and state governmental authorities, including the epa, have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them. violators are subject to administrative, civil and criminal penalties, including civil fines, injunctions or both. joint and several, strict liability may be incurred without regard to fault under the cercla, resource conservation and recovery act and analogous state laws for the remediation of contaminated areas. there is an inherent risk of incurring environmental costs and liabilities in oneok partners' business due to its handling of the products it gathers, transports, processes and stores, air emissions related to its operations, past industry operations and waste disposal practices, some of which may be material. private parties, including the owners of properties through which oneok partners' pipeline systems pass, may have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as to seek damages for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage arising from oneok partners' operations. some sites oneok partners operates are located near current or former third-party hydrocarbon storage and processing operations, and there is a risk that contamination has migrated from those sites to oneok partners' sites. in addition, increasingly strict laws, regulations and enforcement policies could increase significantly oneok partners' compliance costs and the cost of any remediation that may become necessary, some of which may be material. additional information is included under item 1, business under environmental and safety matters and in note r of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this annual report. oneok partners' insurance may not cover all environmental risks and costs or may not provide sufficient coverage in the event an environmental claim is made against oneok partners. oneok partners' business may be affected materially and adversely by increased costs due to stricter pollution-control requirements or liabilities resulting from noncompliance with required operating or other regulatory permits. new environmental regulations might also materially and adversely affect oneok partners' products and activities, and federal and state agencies could impose additional safety requirements, all of which could affect materially oneok partners' profitability. oneok partners may face significant costs to comply with the regulation of ghg emissions. ghg emissions originate primarily from combustion engine exhaust, heater exhaust and fugitive methane gas emissions. various federal and state legislative proposals have been introduced to regulate the emission of ghgs, particularly carbon dioxide and methane, and the united states supreme court has ruled that carbon dioxide is a pollutant subject to regulation by the epa. in addition, there have been international efforts seeking legally binding reductions in emissions of ghgs. 31 table of contents oneok partners believes it is possible that future governmental legislation and/or regulation may require it either to limit ghg emissions from its operations or to purchase allowances for such emissions that are actually attributable to its ngl customers. however, it cannot predict precisely what form these future regulations will take, the stringency of the regulations, or when they will become effective. several legislative bills have been introduced in the united states congress that would require carbon dioxide emission reductions. previously considered proposals have included, among other things, limitations on the amount of ghgs that can be emitted (so called caps ) together with systems of emissions allowances. this system could require oneok partners to reduce emissions, even though the technology is not currently available for efficient reduction, or to purchase allowances for such emissions. emissions also could be taxed independently of limits. in addition to activities on the federal level, state and regional initiatives could also lead to the regulation of ghg emissions sooner and/or independent of federal regulation. these regulations could be more stringent than any federal regulation or legislation that is adopted. future legislation and/or regulation designed to reduce ghg emissions could make some of its activities uneconomic to maintain or operate. further, oneok partners may not be able to pass on the higher costs to its customers or recover all costs related to complying with ghg regulatory requirements. its future results of operations, cash flows or financial condition could be adversely affected if such costs are not recovered through regulated rates or otherwise passed on to its customers. oneok partners continues to monitor legislative and regulatory developments in this area. although the regulation of ghg emissions may have a material impact on its operations and rates, oneok partners believes it is premature to attempt to quantify the potential costs of the impacts. oneok partners is subject to physical and financial risks associated with climate change. there is a growing belief that emissions of ghgs may be linked to global climate change. climate change creates physical and financial risk. oneok partners' customers' energy needs vary with weather conditions, primarily temperature and humidity. for residential customers, heating and cooling represent their largest energy use. to the extent weather conditions may be affected by climate change, customers' energy use could increase or decrease depending on the duration and magnitude of any changes. increased energy use due to weather changes may require oneok partners to invest in more pipelines and other infrastructure to serve increased demand. a decrease in energy use due to weather changes may affect its financial condition through decreased revenues. extreme weather conditions in general require more system backup, adding to costs, and can contribute to increased system stresses, including service interruptions. weather conditions outside of oneok partners' operating territory could also have an impact on its revenues. severe weather impacts its operating territories primarily through hurricanes, thunderstorms, tornados and snow or ice storms. to the extent the frequency of extreme weather events increases, this could increase its cost of providing service. oneok partners may not be able to pass on the higher costs to its customers or recover all the costs related to mitigating these physical risks. to the extent financial markets view climate change and emissions of ghgs as a financial risk, this could affect negatively its ability to access capital markets or cause oneok partners to receive less favorable terms and conditions in future financings. its business could be affected by the potential for lawsuits against ghg emitters, based on links drawn between ghg emissions and climate change. oneok partners' business is subject to regulatory oversight and potential penalties. the natural gas industry historically has been subject to heavy state and federal regulation that extends to many aspects of oneok partners' businesses and operations, including: rates, operating terms and conditions of service; the types of services oneok partners may offer it customers; construction of new facilities; the integrity, safety and security of facilities and operations; acquisition, extension or abandonment of services or facilities; reporting and information posting requirements; maintenance of accounts and records; and relationships with affiliate companies involved in all aspects of the natural gas and energy businesses. compliance with these requirements can be costly and burdensome. future changes to laws, regulations and policies in these areas may impair oneok partners' ability to compete for business or to recover costs and may increase the cost and burden of operations. oneok partners cannot guarantee that state or federal regulators will authorize any projects or acquisitions that it 32 table of contents may propose in the future. moreover, oneok partners cannot guarantee that, if granted, any such authorizations will be made in a timely manner or will be free from potentially burdensome conditions. failure to comply with all applicable state or federal statutes, rules and regulations and orders, could bring substantial penalties and fines. for example, under the energy policy act of 2005, the ferc has civil penalty authority under the natural gas act to impose penalties for current violations of up to $1 million per day for each violation. finally, oneok partners cannot give any assurance regarding future state or federal regulations under which it will operate or the effect such regulations could have on its or our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. oneok partners' regulated pipelines' transportation rates are subject to review and possible adjustment by federal and state regulators. under the natural gas act, which is applicable to interstate natural gas pipelines, and the interstate commerce act, which is applicable to crude oil and natural gas liquids pipelines, oneok partners' interstate transportation rates, which are regulated by the ferc, must be just and reasonable and not unduly discriminatory. shippers may protest oneok partners' pipeline tariff filings, and the ferc and or state regulatory agency may investigate tariff rates. further, the ferc may order refunds of amounts collected under newly filed rates that are determined by the ferc to be in excess of a just and reasonable level. in addition, shippers may challenge by complaint the lawfulness of tariff rates that have become final and effective. the ferc and/or state regulatory agencies also may investigate tariff rates absent shipper complaint. any finding that approved rates exceed a just and reasonable level on the natural gas pipelines would take effect prospectively. in a complaint proceeding challenging natural gas liquids pipeline rates, if the ferc determines existing rates exceed a just and reasonable level, it could require the payment of reparations to complaining shippers for up to two years prior to the complaint. any such action by the ferc or a comparable action by a state regulatory agency could affect adversely oneok partners' pipeline businesses' ability to charge rates that would cover future increases in costs, or even to continue to collect rates that cover current costs, and provide for a reasonable return. oneok partners can provide no assurance that its pipeline systems will be able to recover all of their costs through existing or future rates. demand for natural gas and for certain of oneok partners' products and services is highly weather sensitive and seasonal. the demand for natural gas and for certain of oneok partners' businesses' products, such as propane, is weather sensitive and seasonal, with a portion of revenues derived from sales for heating during the winter months. weather conditions influence directly the volume of, among other things, natural gas and propane delivered to customers. deviations in weather from normal levels and the seasonal nature of certain of oneok partners' businesses can create variations in earnings and short-term cash requirements. energy efficiency and technological advances may affect the demand for natural gas and affect adversely oneok partners' operating results. more strict local, state and federal energy-conservation measures in the future or technological advances in heating, including installation of improved insulation and the development of more efficient furnaces, energy generation or other devices could affect the demand for natural gas and adversely affect oneok partners' and our results of operations and cash flows. in the competition for customers, oneok partners may have significant levels of uncontracted or discounted capacity on its natural gas and natural gas liquids pipelines, processing, fractionation and storage assets. oneok partners' natural gas and natural gas liquids pipelines, processing, fractionation and storage assets compete with other pipelines, processing, fractionation and storage facilities for natural gas and ngl supplies delivered to the markets it serves. as a result of competition, at any given time oneok partners may have significant levels of uncontracted or discounted capacity on its pipelines, processing, fractionation and in its storage assets, which could have a material adverse impact on oneok partners' or our results of operations and cash flows. oneok partners is exposed to the credit risk of its customers or counterparties, and its credit risk management may not be adequate to protect against such risk. oneok partners is subject to the risk of loss resulting from nonpayment and/or nonperformance by oneok partners' customers or counterparties. oneok partners' customers or counterparties may experience rapid deterioration of their 33 table of contents financial condition as a result of changing market conditions, commodity prices or financial difficulties that could impact their creditworthiness or ability to pay oneok partners for its services. oneok partners assesses the creditworthiness of its customers or counterparties and obtains collateral as it deems appropriate. if oneok partners fails to assess adequately the creditworthiness of existing or future customers or counterparties, unanticipated deterioration in their creditworthiness and any resulting nonpayment and/or nonperformance could adversely impact oneok partners' or our results of operations. in addition, if any of oneok partners' customers or counterparties files for bankruptcy protection, this could have a material negative impact on oneok partners' and our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. any reduction in oneok partners' credit ratings could affect materially and adversely its business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. oneok partners' senior unsecured long-term debt has been assigned an investment-grade rating by moody's of baa2 (stable) and by s&amp;p of bbb (stable) as of february 3, 2014; however, we cannot provide assurance that any of its current ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances in the future so warrant. specifically, if moody's or s&amp;p were to downgrade oneok partners' long-term debt rating, particularly below investment grade, its borrowing costs would increase, which would affect adversely its financial results, and its potential pool of investors and funding sources could decrease. ratings from credit agencies are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold oneok partners' debt securities. each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. an event of default may require oneok partners to offer to repurchase certain of its senior notes or may impair its ability to access capital. the indentures governing oneok partners' senior notes include an event of default upon the acceleration of other indebtedness of $100 million or more. such events of default would entitle the trustee or the holders of 25 percent in aggregate principal amount of oneok partners' outstanding senior notes to declare those senior notes immediately due and payable in full. oneok partners may not have sufficient cash on hand to repurchase and repay any accelerated senior notes, which may cause oneok partners to borrow money under its credit facilities or seek alternative financing sources to finance the repurchases and repayment. oneok partners could also face difficulties accessing capital or its borrowing costs could increase, impacting its ability to obtain financing for acquisitions or capital expenditures, to refinance indebtedness and to fulfill its debt obligations. oneok partners' indebtedness could impair its financial condition and ability to fulfill its obligations. as of december 31, 2014, oneok partners had total indebtedness of approximately $7.1 billion . its indebtedness could have significant consequences. for example, it could: make it more difficult to satisfy its obligations with respect to its senior notes and other indebtedness, which could in turn result in an event of default on such other indebtedness or its senior notes; impair its ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general business purposes; diminish its ability to withstand a downturn in its business or the economy; require it to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to debt-service payments, thereby reducing the availability of cash for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, distributions to partners and general partnership purposes; limit its flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in its business and the industry in which it operates; and place it at a competitive disadvantage compared with its competitors that have proportionately less debt. oneok partners is not prohibited under the indentures governing its senior notes from incurring additional indebtedness, but its debt agreements do subject it to certain operational limitations summarized in the next paragraph. oneok partners' incurrence of significant additional indebtedness would exacerbate the negative consequences mentioned above and could affect adversely its ability to repay its senior notes and other indebtedness. oneok partners' debt agreements contain provisions that restrict its ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to expand or pursue its business activities. for example, certain of these agreements contain provisions that, among other things, limit its ability to make loans or investments, make material changes to the nature of its business, merge, consolidate or engage in asset sales, grant liens or make negative pledges. certain agreements also require it to maintain certain financial ratios, which limit the amount of additional indebtedness it can incur. for example, the oneok partners credit agreement contains a financial covenant requiring it to maintain a ratio of indebtedness to adjusted ebitda (ebitda, as defined in the oneok 34 table of contents partners credit agreement, adjusted for all noncash charges and increased for projected ebitda from certain lender-approved capital expansion projects) of no more than 5.0 to 1. if oneok partners consummates one or more acquisitions in which the aggregate purchase price is $25 million or more, the allowable ratio of indebtedness to adjusted ebitda will increase to 5.5 to 1 for the quarter of the acquisition and the two following quarters. these restrictions could result in higher costs of borrowing and impair oneok partners' ability to generate additional cash. future financing agreements oneok partners may enter into may contain similar or more restrictive covenants. if oneok partners is unable to meet its debt-service obligations, it could be forced to restructure or refinance its indebtedness, seek additional equity capital or sell assets. it may be unable to obtain financing, raise equity or sell assets on satisfactory terms, or at all. borrowings under the oneok partners credit agreement and its senior notes are nonrecourse to oneok, and oneok does not guarantee the debt, commercial paper or other similar commitments of oneok partners. oneok partners has adopted certain valuation methodologies that may result in a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between the general partner and the unitholders. the irs may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of its limited partner units. when oneok partners issues additional units or engages in certain other transactions, oneok partners determines the fair market value of its assets and allocates any unrealized gain or loss attributable to its assets to the capital accounts of its unitholders and its general partner. oneok partners' methodology may be viewed as understating the value of its assets. in that case, there may be a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between certain unitholders and the general partner, which may be unfavorable to such unitholders. moreover, under oneok partners' current valuation methods, subsequent purchasers of common units may have a greater portion of their internal revenue code section 743(b) adjustment allocated to oneok partners' tangible assets and a lesser portion allocated to oneok partners' intangible assets. the irs may challenge oneok partners' valuation methods or oneok partners' allocation of the section 743(b) adjustment attributable to oneok partners' tangible and intangible assets, and allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction between the general partner and certain of oneok partners' unitholders. a successful irs challenge to these methods or allocations could affect adversely the amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to oneok partners' unitholders. it also could affect the amount of gain from oneok partners unitholders' sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to oneok partners unitholders' tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions. oneok partners' treatment of a purchaser of common units as having the same tax benefits as the seller could be challenged, resulting in a reduction in value of the common units. because oneok partners cannot match transferors and transferees of common units, oneok partners is required to maintain the uniformity of the economic and tax characteristics of these units in the hands of the purchasers and sellers of these units. oneok partners does so by adopting certain depreciation conventions that do not conform to all aspects of existing united states treasury regulations. a successful irs challenge to these conventions could affect adversely the tax benefits to a unitholder of ownership of the common units and could have a negative impact on their value or result in audit adjustments to oneok partners unitholders' tax returns. increased regulation of exploration and production activities, including hydraulic fracturing, could result in reductions or delays in drilling and completing new oil and natural gas wells, which could impact adversely oneok partners' revenues by decreasing the volumes of unprocessed natural gas and ngls transported on its or its joint ventures' natural gas and natural gas liquids pipelines. the natural gas industry is relying increasingly on natural gas supplies from nonconventional sources, such as shale and tight sands. natural gas extracted from these sources frequently requires hydraulic fracturing, which involves the pressurized injection of water, sand, and chemicals into the geologic formation to stimulate natural gas production. recently, there have been initiatives at the federal and state levels to regulate or otherwise restrict the use of hydraulic fracturing, and several states have adopted regulations that impose more stringent permitting, disclosure and well-completion requirements on hydraulic fracturing operations. legislation or regulations placing restrictions on hydraulic fracturing activities could impose operational delays, increased operating costs and additional regulatory burdens on exploration and production operators, which could reduce their production of unprocessed natural gas and, in turn, adversely affect oneok partners' revenues and results of operations by decreasing the volumes of unprocessed natural gas and ngls gathered, treated, processed, fractionated and 35 table of contents transported on oneok partners' or its joint ventures' natural gas and natural gas liquids pipelines, several of which gather unprocessed natural gas and ngls from areas where the use of hydraulic fracturing is prevalent. continued development of new supply sources could impact demand. the discovery of nonconventional natural gas production areas closer to certain market areas that oneok partners serves may compete with natural gas originating in production areas connected to oneok partners' systems. for example, the marcellus shale in pennsylvania, new york, west virginia and ohio may cause natural gas in supply areas connected to oneok partners' systems to be diverted to markets other than its traditional market areas and may affect capacity utilization adversely on oneok partners' pipeline systems and oneok partners' ability to renew or replace existing contracts at rates sufficient to maintain current revenues and cash flows. in addition, supply volumes from these nonconventional natural gas production areas may compete with and displace volumes from the mid-continent, permian, rocky mountains and canadian supply sources in certain of oneok partners' markets. the displacement of natural gas originating in supply areas connected to oneok partners' pipeline systems by these new supply sources that are closer to the end-use markets could result in lower transportation revenues, which could have a material adverse impact on oneok partners' business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. a court may use fraudulent conveyance considerations to avoid or subordinate the intermediate partnership's guarantee of certain of oneok partners' senior notes. various applicable fraudulent conveyance laws have been enacted for the protection of creditors. a court may use fraudulent conveyance laws to subordinate or avoid the guarantee of certain of oneok partners' senior notes issued the intermediate partnership. it is also possible that under certain circumstances, a court could hold that the direct obligations of the intermediate partnership could be superior to the obligations under that guarantee. a court could avoid or subordinate the intermediate partnership's guarantee of certain of oneok partners' senior notes in favor of the intermediate partnership's other debts or liabilities to the extent that the court determined either of the following were true at the time the intermediate partnership issued the guarantee: the intermediate partnership incurred the guarantee with the intent to hinder, delay or defraud any of its present or future creditors or the intermediate partnership contemplated insolvency with a design to favor one or more creditors to the total or partial exclusion of others; or the intermediate partnership did not receive fair consideration or reasonable equivalent value for issuing the guarantee and, at the time it issued the guarantee, the intermediate partnership: was insolvent or rendered insolvent by reason of the issuance of the guarantee; was engaged or about to engage in a business or transaction for which its remaining assets constituted unreasonably small capital; or intended to incur, or believed that it would incur, debts beyond its ability to pay such debts as they matured. the measure of insolvency for purposes of the foregoing will vary depending upon the law of the relevant jurisdiction. generally, however, an entity would be considered insolvent for purposes of the foregoing if: the sum of its debts, including contingent liabilities, were greater than the fair saleable value of all of its assets at a fair valuation; the present fair saleable value of its assets was less than the amount that would be required to pay its probable liability on its existing debts, including contingent liabilities, as they become absolute and mature; or it could not pay its debts as they become due. among other things, a legal challenge of the intermediate partnership's guarantee of certain of oneok partners' senior notes on fraudulent conveyance grounds may focus on the benefits, if any, realized by the intermediate partnership as a result of oneok partners' issuance of such senior notes. to the extent the intermediate partnership's guarantee of certain of oneok partners' senior notes is avoided as a result of fraudulent conveyance or held unenforceable for any other reason, the holders of such senior notes would cease to have any claim in respect of the guarantee. oneok partners may be unable to cause its joint ventures to take or not to take certain actions unless some or all of its joint-venture participants agree. oneok partners participates in several joint ventures. due to the nature of some of these arrangements, each participant in these joint ventures has made substantial investments in the joint venture and, accordingly, has required that the relevant charter documents contain certain features designed to provide each participant with the opportunity to participate in the management 36 table of contents of the joint venture and to protect its investment, as well as any other assets that may be substantially dependent on or otherwise affected by the activities of that joint venture. these participation and protective features customarily include a corporate governance structure that requires at least a majority-in-interest vote to authorize many basic activities and requires a greater voting interest (sometimes up to 100 percent) to authorize more significant activities. examples of these more significant activities are large expenditures or contractual commitments, the construction or acquisition of assets, borrowing money or otherwise raising capital, transactions with affiliates of a joint-venture participant, litigation and transactions not in the ordinary course of business, among others. thus, without the concurrence of joint-venture participants with enough voting interests, oneok partners may be unable to cause any of its joint ventures to take or not to take certain actions, even though those actions may be in the best interest of oneok partners or the particular joint venture. moreover, any joint-venture owner generally may sell, transfer or otherwise modify its ownership interest in a joint venture, whether in a transaction involving third parties or the other joint-venture owners. any such transaction could result in oneok partners being required to partner with different or additional parties. oneok partners' operating cash flow is derived partially from cash distributions it receives from its unconsolidated affiliates. oneok partners' operating cash flow is derived partially from cash distributions it receives from its unconsolidated affiliates, as discussed in note p of the notes to consolidated financial statements. the amount of cash that oneok partners' unconsolidated affiliates can distribute principally depends upon the amount of cash flow these affiliates generate from their respective operations, which may fluctuate from quarter to quarter. oneok partners does not have any direct control over the cash distribution policies of its unconsolidated affiliates. this lack of control may contribute to oneok partners' not having sufficient available cash each quarter to continue paying distributions at its current levels. additionally, the amount of cash that oneok partners has available for cash distribution depends primarily upon its cash flow, including cash flow from financial reserves and working capital borrowings, and is not solely a function of profitability, which will be affected by noncash items such as depreciation, amortization and provisions for asset impairments. as a result, oneok partners may be able to make cash distributions during periods when it records losses and may not be able to make cash distributions during periods when it records net income. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 74 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our exposure to market risk discussed below includes forward-looking statements and represents an estimate of possible changes in future earnings that could occur assuming hypothetical future movements in interest rates or commodity prices. our views on market risk are not necessarily indicative of actual results that may occur and do not represent the maximum possible gains and losses that may occur since actual gains and losses will differ from those estimated based on actual fluctuations in interest rates or commodity prices and the timing of transactions. 74 table of contents oneok partners is exposed to market risk due to commodity price and interest-rate volatility. market risk is the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices. we may use financial instruments, including forward sales, swaps, options and futures, to manage the risks of certain identifiable or anticipated transactions and achieve a more predictable cash flow. our risk-management function follows established policies and procedures to monitor our natural gas, condensate and ngl marketing activities and interest rates to ensure our hedging activities mitigate market risks. we do not use financial instruments for trading purposes. we record derivative instruments at fair value. we estimate the fair value of derivative instruments using available market information and appropriate valuation techniques. changes in derivative instruments' fair values are recognized in earnings unless the instrument qualifies as a hedge and meets specific hedge accounting criteria. the effective portion of qualifying derivative instruments' gains and losses may offset the hedged items' related results in earnings for a fair value hedge or be deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) for a cash flow hedge. commodity price risk in the natural gas gathering and processing segment, oneok partners is exposed to commodity price risk as a result of receiving commodities in exchange for services associated with its pop contracts. oneok partners also is exposed to basis risk between the various production and market locations where it receives and sells commodities. as part of its hedging strategy, oneok partners uses the previously described commodity derivative financial instruments and physical-forward contracts to minimize the impact of near-term price fluctuations related to natural gas, ngls and condensate. as of december 31, 2014 , oneok partners had $53.2 million of commodity-related derivative assets and $1.2 million of commodity-related derivative liabilities, excluding the impact of netting. the following table sets forth oneok partners' hedging information for the period indicated: year ending december 31, 2015 volumes hedges average price percentage hedged ngls ( mbbl/d ) 6.4 $ 0.59 / gallon 33% condensate ( mbbl/d ) 1.9 $ 1.31 / gallon 44% total ( mbbl/d ) 8.3 $ 0.76 / gallon 35% natural gas ( bbtu/d ) 112.8 $ 4.03 / mmbtu 80% oneok partners expects its natural gas liquids and natural gas commodity price sensitivity within this segment to increase in the future as its capital projects are completed and volumes increase under pop contracts with its customers. the natural gas gathering and processing segment's commodity price sensitivity is estimated as a hypothetical change in the price of ngls, crude oil and natural gas at december 31, 2014 , excluding the effects of hedging and assuming normal operating conditions. oneok partners' condensate sales are based on the price of crude oil. oneok partners estimates the following: a $0.01 per-gallon change in the composite price of ngls would change 12-month forward net margin by approximately $3.0 million ; a $1.00 per-barrel change in the price of crude oil would change 12-month forward net margin by approximately $1.6 million ; and a $0.10 per-mmbtu change in the price of natural gas would change 12-month forward net margin by approximately $5.2 million . these estimates do not include any effects on demand for oneok partners' services or natural gas processing plant operations that might be caused by, or arise in conjunction with, commodity price fluctuations. for example, a change in the gross processing spread may cause a change in the amount of ethane extracted from the natural gas stream, impacting gathering and processing margins for certain contracts. in the natural gas liquids segment, oneok partners is exposed to basis risk primarily as a result of the relative value of ngl purchases at one location and sales at another location. to a lesser extent, oneok partners is exposed to commodity price risk resulting from the relative values of the various ngl products to each other, ngls in storage and the relative value of ngls to natural gas. oneok partners utilizes physical-forward contracts to reduce the impact of price fluctuations related to ngls. at december 31, 2014 and 2013 , there were no financial derivative instruments with respect to its natural gas liquids operations. 75 table of contents in the natural gas pipelines segment, oneok partners is exposed to commodity price risk because its intrastate and interstate natural gas pipelines retain natural gas from its customers for operations or as part of its fee for services provided. when the amount of natural gas consumed in operations by these pipelines differs from the amount provided by oneok partners' customers, its pipelines must buy or sell natural gas, or store or use natural gas from inventory, which can expose it to commodity price risk depending on the regulatory treatment for this activity. to the extent that commodity price risk in the natural gas pipelines segment is not mitigated by fuel cost-recovery mechanisms, oneok partners uses physical-forward sales or purchases to reduce the impact of price fluctuations related to natural gas. at december 31, 2014 and 2013 , there were no financial derivative instruments with respect to its natural gas pipeline operations. see note e of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this annual report for more information on oneok partners' hedging activities. interest-rate risk oneok partners manages interest-rate risk through the use of fixed-rate debt, floating-rate debt and interest-rate swaps. interest-rate swaps are agreements to exchange interest payments at some future point based on specified notional amounts. at december 31, 2014 and 2013, oneok partners had forward-starting interest-rate swaps with notional amounts totaling $900 million and $400 million, respectively, that have been designated as cash flow hedges of the variability of interest payments on a portion of forecasted debt issuances that may result from changes in the benchmark interest rate before the debt is issued. future issuances of long-term debt could be impacted by increases in interest rates, which could result in higher interest costs. at december 31, 2014, oneok partners had derivative assets of $2.3 million and derivative liabilities of $44.8 million related to these interest-rate swaps. at december 31, 2013, oneok partners had derivative assets of $54.5 million related to these interest-rate swaps. counterparty credit risk oneok and oneok partners assess the creditworthiness of their counterparties on an ongoing basis and require security, including prepayments and other forms of collateral, when appropriate. oneok partners is not exposed to material credit risk with exploration and production customers under pop contracts in the natural gas gathering and processing segment due to the nature of the pop contracts whereby it receives proceeds from the sale of commodities and remits a portion of those proceeds back to the producer. certain of oneok partners' counterparties to the natural gas gathering and processing segment's natural gas sales, the natural gas liquids segment's marketing activities and the natural gas pipelines storage activities may be impacted by the depressed commodity price environment and could experience financial problems. the majority of the natural gas liquids segment's and natural gas pipeline segment's pipeline tariffs provide oneok partners the ability to require security from shippers. oneok partners' remaining customers are primarily large local distribution, power generation and petrochemical companies. 76 table of contentsrisk factors 22 risk factors our investors should consider the following risks that could affect us and our business. although we have tried to identify key factors, our investors need to be aware that other risks may prove to be important in the future. new risks may emerge at any time, and we cannot predict such risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect our financial performance. risks related to oneok partners' business discussed below will also affect us indirectly as we are the sole general partner and, as of december 31, 2015 , owned 41.2 percent of oneok partners. investors should carefully consider the following discussion of risks and the other information included or incorporated by reference in this annual report, including forward-looking statements, which are included in item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. risk factors inherent in oneok's business our cash flow depends heavily on the earnings and distributions of oneok partners. our partnership interest in oneok partners is our primary cash-generating source. therefore, our cash flow is heavily dependent upon the ability of oneok partners to make cash distributions to its partners. a significant decline in oneok partners' earnings and/or cash distributions could have a corresponding negative impact on us. for information on the risk factors inherent in the business of oneok partners, see the section below entitled additional risk factors related to oneok partners' business and item 1a, risk factors in the oneok partners' annual report. our indebtedness could impair our financial condition and our ability to fulfill our obligations. as of december 31, 2015 , we had total indebtedness of approximately $1.6 billion , which excludes the debt of oneok partners. our indebtedness could have significant consequences. for example, it could: make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our senior notes and our other indebtedness due to the increased debt-service obligations, which could, in turn, result in an event of default on such other indebtedness or our senior notes; impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general business purposes; diminish our ability to withstand a downturn in our business or the economy; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to debt-service payments, reducing the availability of cash for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, dividends or general corporate purposes; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which oneok partners operates; and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared with our competitors that have proportionately less debt. we are not prohibited under the indentures governing our senior notes from incurring additional indebtedness, but our debt agreements do subject us to certain operational limitations summarized in the next paragraph. if we incur significant additional indebtedness, it could worsen the negative consequences mentioned above and could affect adversely our ability to repay our other indebtedness. our revolving debt agreements with banks contain provisions that restrict our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to expand or pursue our business activities. for example, certain of these agreements contain provisions that, among other things, limit our ability to make loans or investments, make material changes to the nature of our business, merge, consolidate or engage in asset sales, grant liens or make negative pledges. certain agreements also require us to maintain certain financial ratios, which limit the amount of additional indebtedness we can incur, as described in the liquidity and capital resources section of item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation. these restrictions could result in higher costs of borrowing and impair our ability to generate additional cash. future financing agreements we may enter into may contain similar or more restrictive covenants. if we are unable to meet our debt-service obligations, we could be forced to restructure or refinance our indebtedness, seek additional equity capital or sell assets. we may be unable to obtain financing or sell assets on satisfactory terms, or at all. 22 table of contents federal, state and local jurisdictions may challenge our tax return positions. the positions taken in our federal and state tax return filings require significant judgments, use of estimates and the interpretation and application of complex tax laws. significant judgment is also required in assessing the timing and amounts of deductible and taxable items. despite management's belief that our tax return positions are fully supportable, certain positions may be successfully challenged by federal, state and local jurisdictions. the separation of one gas could result in substantial tax liability. we have received a private letter ruling from the irs substantially to the effect that, for u.s. federal income tax purposes, the separation and certain related transactions qualify under sections 355 and/or 368 of the u.s. internal revenue code of 1986, as amended. if the factual assumptions or representations made in the request for the private letter ruling prove to have been inaccurate or incomplete in any material respect, then we will not be able to rely on the ruling. furthermore, the irs does not rule on whether a distribution such as the separation satisfies certain requirements necessary to obtain tax-free treatment under section 355 of the code. the private letter ruling was based on representations by us that those requirements were satisfied, and any inaccuracy in those representations could invalidate the ruling. in connection with the separation, we obtained an opinion of outside legal and tax counsel, substantially to the effect that, for u.s. federal income tax purposes, the separation and certain related transactions qualify under sections 355 and 368 of the code. the opinion relies on, among other things, the continuing validity of the private letter ruling and various assumptions and representations as to factual matters made by us which, if inaccurate or incomplete in any material respect, would jeopardize the conclusions reached by such counsel in its opinion. the opinion will not be binding on the irs or the courts, and there can be no assurance that the irs or the courts would not challenge the conclusions stated in the opinion or that any such challenge would not prevail. we have a holding company structure in which our subsidiaries conduct our operations and own our operating assets. we are a holding company, and our subsidiaries conduct all of our operations and own all of our operating assets. we do not have significant assets other than our interests in oneok partners and the equity in our subsidiaries. as a result, our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders and to service our debt depends on the performance of our subsidiaries and their ability to distribute funds to us. the ability of our subsidiaries to make distributions to us may be restricted by, among other things, partnership agreements, credit facilities, applicable state partnership laws and other laws and regulations. if we are unable to obtain funds from our subsidiaries, we may not be able to pay dividends to our shareholders or to pay interest or principal on our debt when due. although we control oneok partners, we may have conflicts of interest with oneok partners that could subject us to claims that we have breached our fiduciary duty to oneok partners and its unitholders. we are the sole general partner and owned 41.2 percent of oneok partners as of december 31, 2015. conflicts of interest may arise between us and oneok partners and its unitholders in resolving these conflicts, we may favor our own interests and the interests of our affiliates over the interests of oneok partners and its unitholders as long as the resolution does not conflict with the partnership agreement or our fiduciary duties to oneok partners and its unitholders. if we are not fully reimbursed or indemnified for obligations and liabilities we incur in managing the business and affairs of oneok partners, the value of our shares could decline. in our capacity as the general partner of oneok partners, we may make expenditures on oneok partners' behalf for which we will seek reimbursement from oneok partners. in addition, under delaware partnership law, we have, in our capacity as oneok partners' general partner, unlimited liability for the obligations of oneok partners, such as oneok partners' debts and environmental liabilities, except for those contractual obligations of oneok partners that are expressly made without recourse to the general partner and as limited by the partnership agreement. to the extent we incur obligations on behalf of oneok partners, we are entitled to be reimbursed or indemnified by oneok partners. if oneok partners is unable or unwilling to reimburse or indemnify us, we may be unable to satisfy these liabilities or obligations, which would likely reduce the value of our shares. oneok partners' unitholders have the right to remove us as their general partner with the approval of the holders of 66 2/3 percent of all units, excluding the units held by us, which would cause us to lose our general partner interest and incentive distribution rights in oks and the ability to manage them. we currently manage oneok partners through our ownership of its general partner interest. the partnership agreement gives common unitholders of oneok partners the right to remove the general partner of oneok partners upon the affirmative vote 23 table of contents of holders of 66 2/3 percent of oneok partners' outstanding units, excluding the units held by the general partner and its affiliates. if we were removed as general partner of oneok partners, we would receive cash or common units in exchange for our 2.0 percent general partner interest and incentive distribution rights, and our class b units would have the right to share in partnership quarterly cash distributions based on 123.5 percent of the amount of any partnership cash distribution, but we would lose the ability to manage oneok partners. although the common units or cash we would receive are intended under the terms of the partnership agreement to fully compensate us in the event such an exchange is required, the value of these common units or investments we make with the cash over time may not be equivalent to the value of the general partner interest and the incentive distribution rights had we retained them. a reduction in oneok partners' cash distributions would disproportionately affect the amount of cash distributions to which we are entitled. through our ownership of the incentive distribution rights in oneok partners, we are entitled to receive our pro rata share of specified percentages of total cash distributions made by oneok partners as it reaches established target cash distribution levels as specified in the the partnership agreement. we currently receive a portion of our pro rata share of cash distributions from oneok partners based on the highest incremental percentage, 50 percent, to which we are entitled pursuant to our incentive distribution rights in oneok partners. as a result, any reduction in quarterly cash distributions from oneok partners would have the effect of disproportionately reducing the amount of all cash distributions that we receive from oneok partners based on our ownership interest in the incentive distribution rights in oneok partners as compared to cash distributions we receive on our general partner interest in oneok partners and our oneok partners common units. cash distributions on our incentive distribution rights in oneok partners are more uncertain than cash distributions on the common and class b units we hold. our ownership of the incentive distribution rights in oneok partners entitles us to receive our pro rata share of specified percentages of total cash distributions made by oneok partners with respect to any particular quarter only in the event that oneok partners distributes more than $0.3025 per unit for such quarter. as a result, the holders of oneok partners' common and class b units have a priority over the holders of oneok partners' incentive distribution rights to the extent of cash distributions by oneok partners up to and including $0.3025 per unit for any quarter. this priority results in greater certainty of common unitholders and class b unitholders receiving distributions, when compared to holders of incentive distribution rights. oneok partners may issue additional units, which may increase the risk that oneok partners will not have sufficient available cash to maintain or increase its per unit cash distribution level. oneok partners may issue additional units, including units that rank senior to the oneok partners' common units, class b units and the incentive distribution rights as to quarterly cash distributions. the payment of cash distributions on those additional units may increase the risk that oneok partners may not have sufficient cash available to maintain or increase its per unit distribution level, which in turn may impact the available cash that we receive from oneok partners to pay dividends. to the extent these units are senior to the common units, class b units or the incentive distribution rights, there is an increased risk that we will not receive the same level or increased cash distributions on the common units, class b units and incentive distribution rights we own. neither the common units, class b units nor the incentive distribution rights are entitled to any arrearages from prior quarters. our ability to sell our partnership interests in oneok partners may be limited by securities law restrictions and liquidity constraints. all of the approximately 41.3 million common units and approximately 73.0 million class b units of oneok partners that we own are either unregistered, restricted or control securities or registered control securities within the meaning of rule 144 under the securities act, and thus cannot be sold by us without registration or an applicable exemption from registration. pursuant to the terms of the partnership agreement, we only have registration rights with respect to such oneok partners common units and class b units if rule 144 of the securities act (or any successor rule or regulation to rule 144) or another exemption from registration is not available to enable us to dispose of such oneok partners common units or class b units at the time we desire to do so without registration under the securities act. due to the foregoing limitation, we are primarily limited to sales pursuant to rule 144, which limits selling into the market in any three-month period to an amount of oneok partners' common and/or class b units that does not exceed the greater of 1 percent of the total number of oneok partners' common units outstanding or the average weekly reported trading volume of oneok partners' common units for the four calendar weeks prior to the sale. in addition, we face contractual limitations on our ability to sell our general partner interest and incentive distribution rights, and the market for such interests is illiquid. 24 table of contents holders of our common stock may not receive dividends in the amount identified in guidance, or any dividends at all. we may not have sufficient cash each quarter to pay dividends or maintain current or expected levels of dividends. the actual amount of cash we pay in the form of dividends may fluctuate from quarter to quarter and will depend on various factors, some of which are beyond our control, including the amount of cash that oneok partners distributes to us, our working capital needs, our ability to borrow, the restrictions contained in our indentures and credit facility, our debt service requirements and the cost of acquisitions, if any. a failure either to pay dividends or to pay dividends at expected levels could result in a loss of investor confidence, reputational damage and a decrease in the value of our stock price. the cost of providing pension and postretirement health care benefits to eligible employees and qualified retirees is subject to changes in pension fund values and changing demographics and may increase. we have a defined benefit pension plan for certain employees and postretirement welfare plans that provide postretirement medical and life insurance benefits to certain employees who retire with at least five years of service. the cost of providing these benefits to eligible current and former employees is subject to changes in the market value of our pension and postretirement benefit plan assets, changing demographics, including longer life expectancy of plan participants and their beneficiaries and changes in health care costs. for further discussion of our defined benefit pension plan, see note n of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this annual report. any sustained declines in equity markets and reductions in bond yields may have a material adverse effect on the value of our pension and postretirement benefit plan assets. in these circumstances, additional cash contributions to our pension plans may be required, which could aversely impact our business, financial condition and liquidity. risk factors inherent in both oneok and oneok partners market volatility and capital availability could affect adversely our business. the capital and global credit markets have experienced volatility and disruption in the past. in many cases during these periods, the capital markets have exerted downward pressure on equity values and reduced the credit capacity for certain companies. much of oneok partners' business is capital intensive, and its ability to grow is dependent, in part, upon our and oneok partners' ability to access capital at rates and on terms we determine to be attractive. similar or more severe levels of global market disruption and volatility may have an adverse effect on us or oneok partners resulting from, but not limited to, disruption of access to capital and credit markets, difficulty in obtaining financing necessary to expand facilities or acquire assets, increased financing costs and increasingly restrictive covenants. if we or oneok partners' are unable to access capital at competitive rates, oneok partners' strategy of enhancing the earnings potential of its existing assets, including through capital-growth projects and acquisitions of complementary assets or businesses, may be affected adversely. a number of factors could affect adversely our and oneok partners' ability to access capital, including: (i) general economic conditions; (ii) capital market conditions; (iii) market prices for natural gas, ngls and other hydrocarbons; (iv) the overall health of the energy and related industries; (v) ability to maintain investment-grade credit ratings; (vi) unit price and (vii) capital structure. if our and oneok partners' ability to access capital becomes constrained significantly, our and oneok partners' interest costs and cost of equity will likely increase and could affect adversely our financial condition and future results of operations. our operating results may be affected materially and adversely by unfavorable economic and market conditions. economic conditions worldwide have from time to time contributed to slowdowns in the oil and natural gas industry, as well as in the specific segments and markets in which oneok partners operates, resulting in reduced demand and increased price competition for its products and services. oneok partners' operating results in one or more geographic regions may also be affected by uncertain or changing economic conditions within that region. volatility in commodity prices may have an impact on many of oneok partners' customers, which, in turn, could have a negative impact on their ability to meet their obligations to oneok partners. if global economic and market conditions (including volatility in commodity markets) or economic conditions in the united states or other key markets remain uncertain or persist, spread or deteriorate further, we and oneok partners may experience material impacts on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. terrorist attacks directed at our or oneok partners' facilities could affect adversely our business. the united states government has issued warnings that energy assets, specifically the nation's pipeline infrastructure, may be future targets of terrorist organizations. these developments may subject oneok partners' operations to increased risks. any 25 table of contents future terrorist attack that targets oneok partners' facilities, those of its customers and, in some cases, those of other pipelines, or our facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business. our businesses are subject to market and credit risks. we and oneok partners are exposed to market and credit risks in all of our operations. to reduce the impact of commodity price fluctuations, oneok partners uses derivative transactions, such as swaps, futures and forwards, to hedge anticipated purchases and sales of natural gas, ngls and crude oil and firm transportation commitments. interest-rate swaps are also used to manage interest-rate risk. however, derivative instruments do not eliminate the risks. specifically, such risks include commodity price changes, market supply shortages, interest-rate changes and counterparty default. the impact of these variables could result in our and oneok partners' inability to fulfill contractual obligations, significantly higher energy or fuel costs relative to corresponding sales contracts, or increased interest expense. we or oneok partners may not be able to make additional strategic acquisitions or investments. our and oneok partners' ability to make strategic acquisitions and investments will depend on: the extent to which acquisitions and investment opportunities become available; success in bidding for the opportunities that do become available; regulatory approval, if required, of the acquisitions or investments on favorable terms; and access to capital, including the ability to use our or equity in acquisitions or investments, and the terms upon which we obtain capital. if we or oneok partners are unable to make strategic investments and acquisitions, we or oneok partners may be unable to grow. acquisitions that appear to be accretive may nevertheless reduce our cash from operations on a per-share basis. any acquisition involves potential risks that may include, among other things: inaccurate assumptions about volumes, revenues and costs, including potential synergies; an inability to integrate successfully the businesses we acquire; decrease in our liquidity as a result of our using a significant portion of our available cash or borrowing capacity to finance the acquisition; a significant increase in our interest expense and/or financial leverage if we incur additional debt to finance the acquisition; the assumption of unknown liabilities for which we are not indemnified, our indemnity is inadequate or our insurance policies may exclude from coverage; an inability to hire, train or retain qualified personnel to manage and operate the acquired business and assets; limitations on rights to indemnity from the seller; inaccurate assumptions about the overall costs of equity or debt; the diversion of management's and employees' attention from other business concerns; unforeseen difficulties operating in new product areas or new geographic areas; increased regulatory burdens; customer or key employee losses at an acquired business; and increased regulatory requirements. if we or oneok partners consummate any future acquisitions, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly, and investors will not have the opportunity to evaluate the economic, financial and other relevant information that we will consider in determining the application of our resources to future acquisitions. we or oneok partners may engage in acquisitions, divestitures and other strategic transactions, the success of which may impact results of operations. we or oneok partners may engage in acquisitions, divestitures and other strategic transactions. if we or oneok partners are unable to integrate successfully businesses that we acquire with our respective existing businesses, our results of operations may be affected materially and adversely. similarly, we or oneok partners may from time to time divest portions of our respective businesses, which may also affect materially and adversely our results of operations. 26 table of contents our and oneok partners' established risk-management policies and procedures may not be effective, and employees may violate our risk-management policies. we have developed and implemented a comprehensive set of policies and procedures that involve both our senior management and the audit committee of our board of directors to assist us in managing risks associated with, among other things, the marketing, trading and risk-management activities associated with our business segments. our risk policies and procedures are intended to align strategies, processes, people, information technology and business knowledge so that risk is managed throughout the organization. as conditions change and become more complex, current risk measures may fail to adequately assess the relevant risk due to changes in the market and the presence of risks previously unknown to us. additionally, if employees fail to adhere to our policies and procedures or if our policies and procedures are not effective, potentially because of future conditions or risks outside of our control, we may be exposed to greater risk than we had intended. ineffective risk-management policies and procedures or violation of risk-management policies and procedures could have an adverse affect on our earnings, financial position or cash flows. our use of financial instruments to hedge interest-rate risk may result in reduced income. we and oneok partners utilize financial instruments to mitigate our exposure to interest-rate fluctuations. hedging instruments that are used to reduce our exposure to interest-rate fluctuations could expose us to risk of financial loss, including where we have contracted for variable-rate swap instruments to hedge fixed-rate instruments and the variable rate exceeds the fixed rate. in addition, these hedging arrangements may limit the benefit we would otherwise receive if we had contracted for fixed-rate swap agreements to hedge variable-rate instruments and the variable rate falls below the fixed rate. an impairment of goodwill, long-lived assets, including intangible assets, and equity-method investments could reduce our earnings. goodwill is recorded when the purchase price of a business exceeds the fair market value of the tangible and separately measurable intangible net assets. gaap requires us to test goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives for impairment on an annual basis or when events or circumstances occur indicating that goodwill might be impaired. long-lived assets, including intangible assets with finite useful lives, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. for the investments oneok partners accounts for under the equity method, the impairment test considers whether the fair value of the equity investment as a whole, not the underlying net assets, has declined and whether that decline is other than temporary. for example, if the current energy commodity price environment persists for a prolonged period or further declines, it could result in lower volumes delivered to oneok partners' systems and impairments of oneok partners' assets or equity-method investments. if we determine that an impairment is indicated, we would be required to take an immediate noncash charge to earnings with a correlative effect on our equity and balance sheet leverage as measured by consolidated debt to total capitalization. a breach of information security, including a cybersecurity attack, or failure in of one or more key information technology or operational systems, or those of third parties, may affect adversely our operations, financial results or reputation. our businesses are dependent upon our operational systems to process a large amount of data and complex transactions. the various uses of these it systems, networks and services include, but are not limited to: controlling oneok partners' plants and pipelines with industrial control systems including supervisory control and data acquisition (scada); collecting and storing customer, employee, investor and other stakeholder information and data; processing transactions; summarizing and reporting results of operations; hosting, processing and sharing confidential and proprietary research, business plans and financial information; complying with regulatory, legal or tax requirements; providing data security; and handling other processing necessary to manage our business. if any of our systems are damaged, fail to function properly or otherwise become unavailable, we may incur substantial costs to repair or replace them and may experience loss or corruption of critical data and interruptions or delays in our ability to perform critical functions, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. our financial results could also be affected adversely if an employee causes our operational systems to fail, either as a result of inadvertent error or by deliberately tampering with or manipulating our operational systems. in addition, dependence upon automated systems may 27 table of contents further increase the risk that operational system flaws, employee tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect. due to increased technology advances, we have become more reliant on technology to help increase efficiency in our businesses. we use computer programs to help run our financial and operations organizations, and this may subject our business to increased risks. in recent years, there has been a rise in the number of cyberattacks on companies' network and information systems by both state-sponsored and criminal organizations, and as a result, the risks associated with such an event continue to increase. a significant failure, compromise, breach or interruption in our systems could result in a disruption of our operations, customer dissatisfaction, damage to our reputation and a loss of customers or revenues. if any such failure, interruption or similar event results in the improper disclosure of information maintained in our information systems and networks or those of our vendors, including personnel, customer and vendor information, we could also be subject to liability under relevant contractual obligations and laws and regulations protecting personal data and privacy. efforts by us and our vendors to develop, implement and maintain security measures may not be successful in preventing these events from occurring, and any network and information systems-related events could require us to expend significant resources to remedy such event. although we believe that we have robust information security procedures and other safeguards in place, as cyberthreats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend additional resources to continue to enhance our information security measures and/or to investigate and remediate information security vulnerabilities. cyberattacks against us or others in our industry could result in additional regulations. current efforts by the federal government, such as the improving critical infrastructure cybersecurity executive order, and any potential future regulations could lead to increased regulatory compliance costs, insurance coverage cost or capital expenditures. we cannot predict the potential impact to our business or the energy industry resulting from additional regulations. if we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to report accurately our financial results or prevent fraud. as a result, current and potential holders of our equity and debt securities could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and cost of capital. effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports, prevent fraud and operate successfully as a public company. we cannot be certain that our efforts to maintain our internal controls will be successful, that we will be able to maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future or that we will be able to continue to comply with our obligations under section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. any failure to maintain effective internal controls, or difficulties encountered in implementing or improving our internal controls, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. ineffective internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which would likely have a negative effect on the trading price of our equity interests. changes in interest rates could affect adversely our business. we use both fixed- and variable-rate debt, and we are exposed to market risk due to the floating interest rates on our short-term borrowings. from time to time, we use interest-rate derivatives to hedge interest obligations on specific debt issuances, including anticipated debt issuances. these hedges may be ineffective, and our results of operations, cash flows and financial position could be affected adversely by significant fluctuations or increases or decreases in interest rates from current levels. a shortage of skilled labor may make it difficult for us to maintain labor productivity and competitive costs, which could affect operations and cash flows available for distribution. our operations require skilled and experienced workers with proficiency in multiple tasks. in recent years, a shortage of workers trained in various skills associated with the midstream energy business has caused us to conduct certain operations without full staff, thus hiring outside resources, which may decrease productivity and increase costs. this shortage of trained workers is the result of experienced workers reaching retirement age and increased competition for workers in certain areas, combined with the difficulty of attracting new workers to the midstream energy industry. this shortage of skilled labor could continue over an extended period. if the shortage of experienced labor continues or worsens, it could have an adverse impact on labor productivity and costs and our ability to expand production in the event there is an increase in the demand for our products and services, which could affect adversely our operations and cash flows available for distribution to oneok partners' unitholders and, in turn, to cash flows available for dividends to oneok shareholders. additional risk factors related to oneok partners' business risks related to oneok partners' business discussed below will also affect us as we are the sole general partner and, as of december 31, 2015 , owned 41.2 percent of oneok partners. 28 table of contents increased competition could have a significant adverse financial impact on oneok partners' business. the natural gas and natural gas liquids industries are expected to remain highly competitive. the demand for natural gas and ngls is primarily a function of commodity prices, including prices for alternative energy sources, customer usage rates, weather, economic conditions and service costs. oneok partners' ability to compete also depends on a number of other factors, including competition from other companies for its existing customers; the efficiency, quality and reliability of the services it provides; and competition for throughput at its gathering systems, pipelines, processing plants, fractionators and storage facilities. the volatility of natural gas, crude oil and ngl prices could affect adversely oneok partners' cash flows. a significant portion of oneok partners' revenues are derived from the sale of commodities that are received as payment for natural gas gathering and processing services, for the transportation and storage of natural gas, and from the purchase and sale of ngls and ngl products. commodity prices have been volatile and are likely to continue to be so in the future. the prices oneok partners receives for its commodities are subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors beyond oneok partners' control, including, but not limited to, the following: overall domestic and global economic conditions; relatively minor changes in the supply of, and demand for, domestic and foreign energy; market uncertainty; the availability and cost of third-party transportation, natural gas processing and fractionation capacity; the level of consumer product demand and storage inventory levels; ethane rejection; geopolitical conditions impacting supply and demand for natural gas, ngls and crude oil; weather conditions; domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; the price and availability of alternative fuels; speculation in the commodity futures markets; the effects of imports and exports on the price of natural gas, crude oil, ngl and liquefied natural gas; the effect of worldwide energy-conservation measures; and the impact of new supplies, new pipelines, processing and fractionation facilities on location price differentials. these external factors and the volatile nature of the energy markets make it difficult to reliably estimate future prices of commodities and the impact commodity price fluctuations have on oneok partners' customers and their need for its services. as commodity prices decline, oneok partners is paid less for its commodities, thereby reducing its cash flow. in addition, crude oil, natural gas and ngl production could also decline due to lower prices. if the level of drilling and production in the mid-continent, rocky mountain, permian basin and gulf coast regions declines substantially near its assets, oneok partners' volumes and revenue could decline. oneok partners' gathering and transportation pipeline systems are connected to, and dependent on the level of production from, natural gas and crude oil wells, from which production will naturally decline over time. as a result, its cash flows associated with these wells will also decline over time. in order to maintain or increase throughput levels on oneok partners' gathering and transportation pipeline systems and the asset utilization rates at its processing and fractionation plants, it must continually obtain new supplies. oneok partners' ability to maintain or expand its businesses depends largely on the level of drilling and production by third parties in the mid-continent, rocky mountain, permian basin and gulf coast regions. oneok partners' natural gas and ngl supply volumes may be impacted if producers curtail or redirect drilling and production activities. drilling and production are impacted by factors beyond oneok partners' control, including: demand and prices for natural gas, ngls and crude oil; producers' access to capital; producers' finding and development costs of reserves; producers' desire and ability to obtain necessary permits in a timely and economic manner; natural gas field characteristics and production performance; surface access and infrastructure issues; and capacity constraints on natural gas, crude oil and natural gas liquids infrastructure from the producing areas and oneok partners' facilities. 29 table of contents commodity prices have declined substantially and experienced significant volatility. drilling and production activity levels may vary across oneok partners' geographic areas; however, a prolonged period of low commodity prices may reduce drilling and production activities across all areas. if oneok partners' is not able to obtain new supplies to replace the natural decline in volumes from existing wells or because of competition, throughput on its gathering and transportation pipeline systems and the utilization rates of its processing and fractionation facilities would decline, which could have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows, and its ability to make cash distributions. oneok partners is exposed to the credit risk of its customers or counterparties, and its credit risk management may not be adequate to protect against such risk. oneok partners is subject to the risk of loss resulting from nonpayment and/or nonperformance by oneok partners' customers or counterparties. oneok partners' customers or counterparties may experience rapid deterioration of their financial condition as a result of changing market conditions, commodity prices or financial difficulties that could impact their creditworthiness or ability to pay oneok partners for its services. oneok partners assesses the creditworthiness of its customers or counterparties and obtains collateral or contractual terms as it deems appropriate. oneok partners cannot, however, predict to what extent its business may be impacted by deteriorating market or financial conditions, including possible declines in its customers' and counterparties' creditworthiness. the recent decline in commodity prices has negatively impacted the financial condition of certain customers and counterparties and further declines, a prolonged low commodity price environment, or continued volatility could impact their ability to meet their financial obligations to oneok partners. oneok partners' customers and counterparties may not perform or adhere to its existing or future contractual arrangements. to the extent oneok partners' customers and counterparties are in financial distress or commence bankruptcy proceedings, contracts with them may be subject to renegotiation or rejection under applicable provisions of the united states bankruptcy code. if oneok partners fails to assess adequately the creditworthiness of existing or future customers and counterparties, any material nonpayment or nonperformance by its customers and counterparties due to inability or unwillingness to perform or adhere to contractual arrangements could have a material adverse impact on oneok partners' business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to its unitholders. oneok partners' primary market areas are located in the mid-continent, rocky mountain, permian basin and gulf coast regions of the u.s. oneok partners' revenues are derived primarily from major integrated and independent exploration and production, pipeline, marketing and petrochemical companies. therefore oneok partners' customers and counterparties may be similarly affected by changes in economic, regulatory or other factors that may affect its overall credit risk. some of oneok partners' nonregulated businesses have a higher level of risk than its regulated businesses. some of oneok partners' nonregulated operations, which include its natural gas gathering and processing business and most of its natural gas liquids business, have a higher level of risk than its regulated operations, which include a portion of its natural gas pipelines business and a portion of its natural gas liquids business. oneok partners expects to continue investing in natural gas and natural gas liquids projects and other related projects, some or all of which may involve nonregulated businesses or assets. these projects could involve risks associated with operational factors, such as competition and dependence on certain suppliers and customers; and financial, economic and political factors, such as rapid and significant changes in commodity prices, the cost and availability of capital and counterparty risk, including the inability of a counterparty, customer or supplier to fulfill a contractual obligation. measurement adjustments on oneok partners' pipeline system can be affected materially by changes in estimation, type of commodity and other factors. natural gas and natural gas liquids measurement adjustments occur as part of the normal operating conditions associated with oneok partners' assets. the quantification and resolution of measurement adjustments are complicated by several factors including: (1) the significant number ( i.e ., thousands) of meters that oneok partners uses throughout its natural gas and natural gas liquids systems, primarily around its gathering and processing assets; (2) varying qualities of natural gas in the streams gathered and processed and the mixed nature of ngls gathered and fractionated through oneok partners' systems; and (3) variances in measurement that are inherent in metering technologies. each of these factors may contribute to measurement adjustments that can occur on oneok partners' systems, which could affect negatively its business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. many of oneok partners' pipeline and storage assets have been in service for several decades. many of oneok partners' pipeline and storage assets are designed as long-lived assets. over time the age of these assets could result in increased maintenance or remediation expenditures and an increased risk of product releases and associated 30 table of contents costs and liabilities. any significant increase in these expenditures, costs or liabilities could materially adversely affect oneok partners' results of operations, financial position or cash flows, as well as its ability to pay cash distributions. oneok partners does not hedge fully against commodity price changes, seasonal price differentials, product price differentials or location price differentials. this could result in decreased revenues, increased costs and lower margins, adversely affecting its results of operations. certain of oneok partners' businesses are exposed to market risk and the impact of market fluctuations of natural gas, ngls and crude oil prices. market risk refers to the risk of loss of cash flows and future earnings arising from adverse changes in commodity prices. oneok partners' primary commodity price exposures arise from: the value of the ngls and natural gas it receives as a portion of its compensation for the natural gas gathering and processing services it provides; the price differentials between the individual ngl products with respect to oneok partners' ngl transportation and fractionation agreements; the location price differentials in the price of natural gas and ngls with respect to oneok partners' natural gas and ngl transportation businesses; the seasonal price differentials of natural gas and ngls related to storage operations; and the fuel costs and the value of the retained fuel in-kind in oneok partners' natural gas pipelines and storage operations. to manage the risk from market price fluctuations of natural gas, ngls and crude oil prices, oneok partners may use derivative instruments such as swaps, futures, forwards and options. however, it does not hedge fully against commodity price changes and, therefore, it retains some exposure to market risk. accordingly, any adverse changes to commodity prices could result in decreased revenue and increased costs. oneok partners' use of financial instruments and physical forward transactions to hedge market-risk exposure to commodity price and interest-rate fluctuations may result in reduced income. oneok partners utilizes financial instruments and physical forward transactions to mitigate its exposure to interest rate and commodity price fluctuations. hedging instruments that are used to reduce oneok partners' exposure to interest-rate fluctuations could expose it to risk of financial loss where it has contracted for variable-rate swap instruments to hedge fixed-rate instruments and the variable rate exceeds the fixed rate. in addition, these hedging arrangements may limit the benefit oneok partners would otherwise receive if it had contracted for fixed-rate swap agreements to hedge variable-rate instruments and the variable rate falls below the fixed rate. hedging arrangements that are used to reduce oneok partners' exposure to commodity price fluctuations limit the benefit it would otherwise receive if market prices for natural gas, crude oil and ngls exceed the stated price in the hedge instrument for these commodities. oneok partners' may not be able to develop and execute growth projects and acquire new assets which could result in reduced cash distributions to its unitholders and to oneok. oneok partners' primary business objectives are to generate cash flow sufficient to pay quarterly cash distributions to unitholders and to increase these distributions over time. oneok partners' ability to maintain and grow its distributions to unitholders, including oneok, depends on the growth of its existing businesses and strategic acquisitions. if oneok partners is unable to implement business development opportunities and finance such activities on economically acceptable terms, its future growth will be limited, which could impact adversely its and our results of operations and cash flows. growing oneok partners' business by constructing new pipelines and plants or making modifications to its existing facilities subjects oneok partners to construction risk and supply risks should adequate natural gas or ngl supply be unavailable upon completion of the facilities. one of the ways oneok partners may grow its businesses is through the construction of new pipelines and new gathering, processing, storage and fractionation facilities and through modifications to oneok partners' existing pipelines and existing gathering, processing, storage and fractionation facilities. the construction and modification of pipelines and gathering, processing, storage and fractionation facilities may face the following risks: projects may require significant capital expenditures, which may exceed oneok partners' estimates, and involves numerous regulatory, environmental, political, legal and weather-related uncertainties; projects may increase demand for labor, materials and rights of way, which may, in turn, affect oneok partners' costs and schedule; 31 table of contents oneok partners may be unable to obtain new rights of way to connect new natural gas or ngl supplies to its existing gathering or transportation pipelines; if oneok partners undertakes these projects, it may not be able to complete them on schedule or at the budgeted cost; oneok partners' revenues may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project. for instance, if oneok partners builds a new pipeline, the construction will occur over an extended period of time, and it will not receive any material increases in revenues until after completion of the project; oneok partners' may have only limited natural gas or ngl supply committed to these facilities prior to their construction; oneok partners may construct facilities to capture anticipated future growth in production in a region in which anticipated production growth does not materialize; oneok partners may rely on estimates of proved reserves in its decision to construct new pipelines and facilities, which may prove to be inaccurate because there are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves; and oneok partners may be required to rely on third parties downstream of its facilities to have available capacity for its delivered natural gas or ngls, which may not yet be operational. as a result, new facilities may not be able to attract enough natural gas or ngls to achieve oneok partners' expected investment return, which could affect materially and adversely oneok partners' results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. if production from the western canada sedimentary basin remains flat or declines, and demand for natural gas from the western canada sedimentary basin is greater in market areas other than the midwestern united states, demand for oneok partners' interstate gas transportation services could decrease significantly. oneok partners depends on a portion of natural gas supply from the western canada sedimentary basin for some of oneok partners' interstate pipelines, primarily viking gas transmission and oneok partners' investment in northern border pipeline, that transport canadian natural gas from the western canada sedimentary basin to the midwestern united states market area. if demand for natural gas increases in canada or other markets not served by oneok partners' interstate pipelines and/or production remains flat or declines, demand for transportation service on oneok partners' interstate natural gas pipelines could decrease significantly, which could impact adversely its and our results of operations and cash flows. oneok partners may not be able to replace, extend or add additional customer contracts or contracted volumes on favorable terms, or at all, which could affect oneok partners' financial condition, the amount of cash available to pay distributions and its ability to grow. although many of oneok partners' customers and suppliers are subject to long-term contracts, if it is unable to replace or extend such contracts, add additional customers or otherwise increase the contracted volumes of natural gas and ngls provided to it by current producers, in each case on favorable terms, if at all, oneok partners' financial condition, growth plans and the amount of cash available to pay distributions could be adversely affected. oneok partners' ability to replace, extend or add additional customer or supplier contracts, or increase contracted volumes of natural gas and ngls from current producers, on favorable terms, or at all, is subject to a number of factors, some of which are beyond oneok partners' control, including: the level of existing and new competition in oneok partners' businesses or from alternative fuel sources, such as electricity, coal, fuel oils or nuclear energy; natural gas and ngl prices, demand, availability; and margins in oneok partners' markets. mergers between oneok partners' customers and competitors could result in lower volumes being gathered, processed, fractionated, transported or stored on its assets, thereby reducing the amount of cash it generates. mergers between oneok partners' existing customers and its competitors could provide strong economic incentives for the combined entities to utilize their existing gathering, processing, fractionation and/or transportation systems instead of oneok partners' in those markets where the systems compete. as a result, oneok partners could lose some or all of the volumes and associated revenues from these customers, and it could experience difficulty in replacing those lost volumes and revenues. because most of oneok partners' operating costs are fixed, a reduction in volumes could result not only in less revenue but also in a decline in cash flow, which would reduce its ability to pay cash distributions to its unitholders. 32 table of contents oneok partners is subject to strict regulations at many of its facilities regarding employee safety, and failure to comply with these regulations could affect adversely oneok partners' business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. the workplaces associated with oneok partners' facilities are subject to the requirements of osha and comparable state statutes that regulate the protection of the health and safety of workers. the failure to comply with osha requirements or general industry standards, including keeping adequate records or occupational exposure to regulated substances could expose it to civil or criminal liability, enforcement actions, and regulatory fines and penalties and could have a material adverse effect on oneok partners' business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. oneok partners' operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions that could affect materially and adversely oneok partners' business and for which neither we nor oneok partners may be insured adequately. oneok partners' operations are subject to all of the risks and hazards typically associated with the operation of natural gas and natural gas liquids gathering, transportation and distribution pipelines, storage facilities and processing and fractionation plants. operating risks include but are not limited to leaks, pipeline ruptures, the breakdown or failure of equipment or processes, and the performance of pipeline facilities below expected levels of capacity and efficiency. other operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions include adverse weather conditions, accidents, explosions, fires, the collision of equipment with oneok partners' pipeline facilities (for example, this may occur if a third party were to perform excavation or construction work near oneok partners' facilities) and catastrophic events such as tornados, hurricanes, earthquakes, floods or other similar events beyond oneok partners' control. it is also possible that oneok partners' facilities could be direct targets or indirect casualties of an act of terrorism. a casualty occurrence might result in injury or loss of life, extensive property damage or environmental damage. liabilities incurred and interruptions to the operations of oneok partners' pipelines or other facilities caused by such an event could reduce revenues generated by oneok partners and increase expenses, thereby impairing our or oneok partners' ability to meet our respective obligations. insurance proceeds may not be adequate to cover all liabilities or expenses incurred or revenues lost, and neither we nor oneok partners are fully insured against all risks inherent in our respective businesses. as a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain insurance policies can increase substantially, and, in some instances, certain insurance may become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. consequently, neither we nor oneok partners may be able to renew existing insurance policies or purchase other desirable insurance on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. if either we or oneok partners were to incur a significant liability for which either we or oneok partners was not insured fully, it could have a material adverse effect on our or oneok partners' financial position and results of operations. further, the proceeds of any such insurance may not be paid in a timely manner and may be insufficient if such an event were to occur. oneok partners does not own all of the land on which its pipelines and facilities are located, and it leases certain facilities and equipment, which could disrupt its operations. oneok partners does not own all of the land on which certain of its pipelines and facilities are located and are, therefore, subject to the risk of increased costs to maintain necessary land use. oneok partners obtains the rights to construct and operate certain of its pipelines and related facilities on land owned by third parties and governmental agencies for a specific period of time. loss of these rights, through its inability to renew right-of-way contracts on acceptable terms or increased costs to renew such rights, could have a material adverse effect on oneok partners' financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. pipeline safety laws and regulations may impose significant costs and liabilities. new pipeline safety legislation that was signed into law in 2012, the pipeline safety, regulatory certainty, and job creation act of 2011 ( 2011 pipeline safety act ), directed the secretary of transportation to promulgate new safety regulations for natural gas and hazardous liquids pipelines, including expanded integrity management requirements, automatic or remote-controlled valve use, excess flow valve use, leak detection system installation, testing to confirm the material strength of certain pipelines and operator verification of records confirming the maximum allowable pressure of certain gas transmission pipelines. the 2011 pipeline safety act also increased the maximum penalty for violation of pipeline safety regulations from $100,000 to $200,000 per violation per day and also from $1 million to $2 million for a related series of violations. these regulations could cause oneok partners to incur capital and operating expenditures for pipeline replacements or repairs, additional monitoring equipment or more frequent inspections or testing of its pipeline facilities, preventive or mitigating measures and other tasks that could result in higher operating costs or capital expenditures. 33 table of contents oneok partners is subject to comprehensive energy regulation by governmental agencies, and the recovery of its costs are dependent on regulatory action. federal, state and local agencies have jurisdiction over many of oneok partners' activities, including regulation by the ferc of its interstate pipeline assets. the profitability of oneok partners' regulated operations is dependent on its ability to pass through costs related to providing energy and other commodities to its customers by filing periodic rate cases. the regulatory environment applicable to oneok partners' regulated businesses could impair its ability to recover costs historically absorbed by its customers. oneok partners is unable to predict the impact that the future regulatory activities of these agencies will have on its operating results. changes in regulations or the imposition of additional regulations could have an adverse impact on oneok partners' business, financial condition and results of operations. oneok partners' regulated pipelines' transportation rates are subject to review and possible adjustment by federal and state regulators. under the natural gas act, which is applicable to interstate natural gas pipelines, and the interstate commerce act, which is applicable to crude oil and natural gas liquids pipelines, oneok partners' interstate transportation rates, which are regulated by the ferc, must be just and reasonable and not unduly discriminatory. shippers may protest oneok partners' pipeline tariff filings, and the ferc and/or state regulatory agencies may investigate tariff rates. further, the ferc may order refunds of amounts collected under newly filed rates that are determined by the ferc to be in excess of a just and reasonable level. in addition, shippers may challenge by complaint the lawfulness of tariff rates that have become final and effective. the ferc and/or state regulatory agencies also may investigate tariff rates absent shipper complaint. any finding that approved rates exceed a just and reasonable level on the natural gas pipelines would take effect prospectively. in a complaint proceeding challenging natural gas liquids pipeline rates, if the ferc determines existing rates exceed a just and reasonable level, it could require the payment of reparations to complaining shippers for up to two years prior to the complaint. any such action by the ferc or a comparable action by a state regulatory agency could affect adversely oneok partners' pipeline businesses' ability to charge rates that would cover future increases in costs, or even to continue to collect rates that cover current costs and provide for a reasonable return. we can provide no assurance that oneok partners' pipeline systems will be able to recover all of their costs through existing or future rates. oneok partners' regulated pipeline companies have recorded certain assets that may not be recoverable from its customers. accounting policies for ferc-regulated companies permit certain assets that result from the regulated rate-making process to be recorded on oneok partners' balance sheet that could not be recorded under gaap for nonregulated entities. oneok partners considers factors such as regulatory changes and the impact of competition to determine the probability of future recovery of these assets. if oneok partners determines future recovery is no longer probable, oneok partners would be required to write off the regulatory assets at that time. compliance with environmental regulations that oneok partners is subject to may be difficult and costly. oneok partners is subject to multiple environmental laws and regulations affecting many aspects of present and future operations, including air emissions, water quality, wastewater discharges, solid and hazardous wastes, and hazardous material and substance management. these laws and regulations require oneok partners to obtain and comply with a wide variety of environmental registrations, licenses, permits, inspections and other approvals. failure to comply with these laws, regulations, permits and licenses may expose oneok partners to fines, penalties and/or interruptions in its operations that could be material to its results of operations. if a leak or spill of hazardous substance occurs from oneok partners' pipelines, gathering lines or facilities in the process of transporting natural gas or ngls or at any facility that oneok partners owns, operates or otherwise uses, oneok partners could be held jointly and severally liable for all resulting liabilities, including investigation and clean-up costs, which could affect materially its results of operations and cash flows. in addition, emission controls required under the federal clean air act and other similar federal and state laws could require unexpected capital expenditures at oneok partners' facilities. oneok partners cannot assure that existing environmental regulations will not be revised or that new regulations will not be adopted or become applicable to it. revised or additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, particularly if those costs are not fully recoverable from customers, could have a material adverse effect on oneok partners' business, financial condition and results of operations. 34 table of contents oneok partners' operations are subject to federal and state laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, which may expose it to significant costs and liabilities. the risk of incurring substantial environmental costs and liabilities is inherent in oneok partners' business. oneok partners' operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into, or otherwise relating to the protection of, the environment. examples of these laws include: the clean air act and analogous state laws that impose obligations related to air emissions; the clean water act and analogous state laws that regulate discharge of waste water from oneok partners' facilities to state and federal waters; the federal cercla and analogous state laws that regulate the cleanup of hazardous substances that may have been released at properties currently or previously owned or operated by oneok partners or locations to which oneok partners has sent waste for disposal; and the federal resource conservation and recovery act and analogous state laws that impose requirements for the handling and discharge of solid and hazardous waste from oneok partners' facilities. various federal and state governmental authorities, including the epa, have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them. violators are subject to administrative, civil and criminal penalties, including civil fines, injunctions or both. joint and several, strict liability may be incurred without regard to fault under the cercla, resource conservation and recovery act and analogous state laws for the remediation of contaminated areas. there is an inherent risk of incurring environmental costs and liabilities in oneok partners' business due to its handling of the products it gathers, transports, processes and stores, air emissions related to its operations, past industry operations and waste disposal practices, some of which may be material. private parties, including the owners of properties through which oneok partners' pipeline systems pass, may have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as to seek damages for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage arising from oneok partners' operations. some sites oneok partners operates are located near current or former third-party hydrocarbon storage and processing operations, and there is a risk that contamination has migrated from those sites to oneok partners' sites. in addition, increasingly strict laws, regulations and enforcement policies could increase significantly oneok partners' compliance costs and the cost of any remediation that may become necessary, some of which may be material. additional information is included under item 1, business under regulatory, environmental and safety matters and in note r of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this annual report. oneok partners' insurance may not cover all environmental risks and costs or may not provide sufficient coverage in the event an environmental claim is made against oneok partners. oneok partners' business may be affected materially and adversely by increased costs due to stricter pollution-control requirements or liabilities resulting from noncompliance with required operating or other regulatory permits. new environmental regulations might also materially and adversely affect oneok partners' products and activities, and federal and state agencies could impose additional safety requirements, all of which could affect materially oneok partners' profitability. oneok partners may face significant costs to comply with the regulation of ghg emissions. ghg emissions originate primarily from combustion engine exhaust, heater exhaust and fugitive methane gas emissions. various federal and state legislative proposals have been introduced to regulate the emission of ghgs, particularly carbon dioxide and methane, and the united states supreme court has ruled that carbon dioxide is a pollutant subject to regulation by the epa. in addition, there have been international efforts seeking legally binding reductions in emissions of ghgs. oneok partners believes it is likely that future governmental legislation and/or regulation may require it either to limit ghg emissions from its operations or to purchase allowances for such emissions that are actually attributable to its ngl customers. however, it cannot predict precisely what form these future regulations will take, the stringency of the regulations, or when they will become effective. several legislative bills have been introduced in the united states congress that would require carbon dioxide emission reductions. previously considered proposals have included, among other things, limitations on the amount of ghgs that can be emitted (so called caps ) together with systems of emissions allowances. these proposals could require oneok partners to reduce emissions, even though the technology is not currently available for efficient reduction, or to purchase allowances for such emissions. emissions also could be taxed independently of limits. in addition to activities on the federal level, state and regional initiatives could also lead to the regulation of ghg emissions sooner and/or independent of federal regulation. these regulations could be more stringent than any federal legislation that is adopted. 35 table of contents future legislation and/or regulation designed to reduce ghg emissions could make some of its activities uneconomic to maintain or operate. further, oneok partners may not be able to pass on the higher costs to its customers or recover all costs related to complying with ghg regulatory requirements. its future results of operations, cash flows or financial condition could be adversely affected if such costs are not recovered through regulated rates or otherwise passed on to its customers. oneok partners continues to monitor legislative and regulatory developments in this area. although the regulation of ghg emissions may have a material impact on its operations and rates, oneok partners believes it is premature to attempt to quantify the potential costs of the impacts. oneok partners is subject to physical and financial risks associated with climate change. there is a growing belief that emissions of ghgs may be linked to global climate change. climate change creates physical and financial risk. oneok partners' customers' energy needs vary with weather conditions, primarily temperature and humidity. for residential customers, heating and cooling represent their largest energy use. to the extent weather conditions may be affected by climate change, customers' energy use could increase or decrease depending on the duration and magnitude of any changes. increased energy use due to weather changes may require oneok partners to invest in more pipelines and other infrastructure to serve increased demand. a decrease in energy use due to weather changes may affect its financial condition through decreased revenues. extreme weather conditions in general require more system backup, adding to costs, and can contribute to increased system stresses, including service interruptions. weather conditions outside of oneok partners' operating territory could also have an impact on its revenues. severe weather impacts its operating territories primarily through hurricanes, thunderstorms, tornados and snow or ice storms. to the extent the frequency of extreme weather events increases, this could increase its cost of providing service. oneok partners may not be able to pass on the higher costs to its customers or recover all the costs related to mitigating these physical risks. to the extent financial markets view climate change and emissions of ghgs as a financial risk, this could affect negatively its ability to access capital markets or cause oneok partners to receive less favorable terms and conditions in future financings. its business could be affected by the potential for lawsuits against ghg emitters, based on links drawn between ghg emissions and climate change. oneok partners' business is subject to regulatory oversight and potential penalties. the natural gas industry historically has been subject to heavy state and federal regulation that extends to many aspects of oneok partners' businesses and operations, including: rates, operating terms and conditions of service; the types of services oneok partners may offer it customers; construction of new facilities; the integrity, safety and security of facilities and operations; acquisition, extension or abandonment of services or facilities; reporting and information posting requirements; maintenance of accounts and records; and relationships with affiliate companies involved in all aspects of the natural gas and energy businesses. compliance with these requirements can be costly and burdensome. future changes to laws, regulations and policies in these areas may impair oneok partners' ability to compete for business or to recover costs and may increase the cost and burden of operations. oneok partners cannot guarantee that state or federal regulators will authorize any projects or acquisitions that it may propose in the future. moreover, oneok partners cannot guarantee that, if granted, any such authorizations will be made in a timely manner or will be free from potentially burdensome conditions. failure to comply with all applicable state or federal statutes, rules and regulations and orders, could bring substantial penalties and fines. for example, under the energy policy act of 2005, the ferc has civil penalty authority under the natural gas act to impose penalties for current violations of up to $1 million per day for each violation. finally, oneok partners cannot give any assurance regarding future state or federal regulations under which it will operate or the effect such regulations could have on its or our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. 36 table of contents demand for natural gas and for certain of oneok partners' products and services is highly weather sensitive and seasonal. the demand for natural gas and for certain of oneok partners' businesses' products, such as propane, is weather sensitive and seasonal, with a portion of revenues derived from sales for heating during the winter months. weather conditions influence directly the volume of, among other things, natural gas and propane delivered to customers. deviations in weather from normal levels and the seasonal nature of certain of oneok partners' businesses can create variations in earnings and short-term cash requirements. energy efficiency and technological advances may affect the demand for natural gas and affect adversely oneok partners' operating results. more strict local, state and federal energy-conservation measures in the future or technological advances in heating, including installation of improved insulation and the development of more efficient furnaces, energy generation or other devices could affect the demand for natural gas and adversely affect oneok partners' and our results of operations and cash flows. in the competition for customers, oneok partners may have significant levels of uncontracted or discounted capacity on its natural gas and natural gas liquids pipelines, processing, fractionation and storage assets. oneok partners' natural gas and natural gas liquids pipelines, processing, fractionation and storage assets compete with other pipelines, processing, fractionation and storage facilities for natural gas and ngl supplies delivered to the markets it serves. as a result of competition, at any given time oneok partners may have significant levels of uncontracted or discounted capacity on its pipelines, processing, fractionation and in its storage assets, which could have a material adverse impact on oneok partners' or our results of operations and cash flows. any reduction in oneok partners' credit ratings could affect materially and adversely its business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. oneok partners' senior unsecured long-term debt and commercial paper program have been assigned an investment-grade rating of baa2 (negative) and prime-2, respectively, by moody's and bbb (negative) and a-2, respectively, by s&amp;p we cannot provide assurance that any of its current ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances in the future so warrant. specifically, if moody's or s&amp;p were to downgrade oneok partners' long-term debt or commercial paper rating, particularly below investment grade, its borrowing costs would increase, which would affect adversely its financial results, and its potential pool of investors and funding sources could decrease. ratings from credit agencies are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold oneok partners' securities. each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. an event of default may require oneok partners to offer to repurchase certain of its senior notes or may impair its ability to access capital. the indentures governing oneok partners' senior notes include an event of default upon the acceleration of other indebtedness of $100 million or more. such events of default would entitle the trustee or the holders of 25 percent in aggregate principal amount of oneok partners' outstanding senior notes to declare those senior notes immediately due and payable in full. oneok partners may not have sufficient cash on hand to repurchase and repay any accelerated senior notes, which may cause oneok partners to borrow money under its credit facilities or seek alternative financing sources to finance the repurchases and repayment. oneok partners could also face difficulties accessing capital or its borrowing costs could increase, impacting its ability to obtain financing for acquisitions or capital expenditures, to refinance indebtedness and to fulfill its debt obligations. oneok partners' indebtedness could impair its financial condition and ability to fulfill its obligations. as of december 31, 2015 , oneok partners had total indebtedness of approximately $7.3 billion . its indebtedness could have significant consequences. for example, it could: make it more difficult to satisfy its obligations with respect to its senior notes and other indebtedness, which could in turn result in an event of default on such other indebtedness or its senior notes; impair its ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general business purposes; diminish its ability to withstand a downturn in its business or the economy; 37 table of contents require it to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to debt-service payments, thereby reducing the availability of cash for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, distributions to partners and general partnership purposes; limit its flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in its business and the industry in which it operates; and place it at a competitive disadvantage compared with its competitors that have proportionately less debt. oneok partners is not prohibited under the indentures governing its senior notes from incurring additional indebtedness, but its debt agreements do subject it to certain operational limitations summarized in the next paragraph. oneok partners' incurrence of significant additional indebtedness would exacerbate the negative consequences mentioned above and could affect adversely its ability to repay its senior notes and other indebtedness. oneok partners' debt agreements contain provisions that restrict its ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to expand or pursue its business activities. for example, certain of these agreements contain provisions that, among other things, limit its ability to make loans or investments, make material changes to the nature of its business, merge, consolidate or engage in asset sales, grant liens or make negative pledges. certain agreements also require it to maintain certain financial ratios, which limit the amount of additional indebtedness it can incur. for example, the oneok partners credit agreement contains a financial covenant requiring it to maintain a ratio of indebtedness to adjusted ebitda (ebitda, as defined in the oneok partners credit agreement, adjusted for all noncash charges and increased for projected ebitda from certain lender-approved capital expansion projects) of no more than 5.0 to 1. if oneok partners consummates one or more acquisitions in which the aggregate purchase price is $25 million or more, the allowable ratio of indebtedness to adjusted ebitda will increase to 5.5 to 1 for the quarter in which the acquisition was completed and the two following quarters. these restrictions could result in higher costs of borrowing and impair oneok partners' ability to generate additional cash. future financing agreements oneok partners may enter into may contain similar or more restrictive covenants. if oneok partners is unable to meet its debt-service obligations, it could be forced to restructure or refinance its indebtedness, seek additional equity capital or sell assets. it may be unable to obtain financing, raise equity or sell assets on satisfactory terms, or at all. borrowings under the oneok partners credit agreement and its senior notes are nonrecourse to oneok, and oneok does not guarantee the debt, commercial paper or other similar commitments of oneok partners. oneok partners has adopted certain valuation methodologies that may result in a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between the general partner and the unitholders. the irs may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of its limited partner units. when oneok partners issues additional units or engages in certain other transactions, oneok partners determines the fair market value of its assets and allocates any unrealized gain or loss attributable to its assets to the capital accounts of its unitholders and its general partner. oneok partners' methodology may be viewed as understating the value of its assets. in that case, there may be a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between certain unitholders and the general partner, which may be unfavorable to such unitholders. moreover, under oneok partners' current valuation methods, subsequent purchasers of common units may have a greater portion of their internal revenue code section 743(b) adjustment allocated to oneok partners' tangible assets and a lesser portion allocated to oneok partners' intangible assets. the irs may challenge oneok partners' valuation methods or oneok partners' allocation of the section 743(b) adjustment attributable to oneok partners' tangible and intangible assets, and allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction between the general partner and certain of oneok partners' unitholders. a successful irs challenge to these methods or allocations could affect adversely the amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to oneok partners' unitholders. it also could affect the amount of gain from oneok partners unitholders' sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to oneok partners unitholders' tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions. oneok partners' treatment of a purchaser of common units as having the same tax benefits as the seller could be challenged, resulting in a reduction in value of the common units. because oneok partners cannot match transferors and transferees of common units, oneok partners is required to maintain the uniformity of the economic and tax characteristics of these units in the hands of the purchasers and sellers of these units. oneok partners does so by adopting certain depreciation conventions that do not conform to all aspects of existing united states treasury regulations. a successful irs challenge to these conventions could affect adversely the tax benefits to a 38 table of contents unitholder of ownership of the common units and could have a negative impact on their value or result in audit adjustments to oneok partners unitholders' tax returns. increased regulation of exploration and production activities, including hydraulic fracturing, could result in reductions or delays in drilling and completing new oil and natural gas wells, which could impact adversely oneok partners' revenues by decreasing the volumes of unprocessed natural gas and ngls transported on its or its joint ventures' natural gas and natural gas liquids pipelines. the natural gas industry is relying increasingly on natural gas supplies from nonconventional sources, such as shale and tight sands. natural gas extracted from these sources frequently requires hydraulic fracturing, which involves the pressurized injection of water, sand, and chemicals into the geologic formation to stimulate natural gas production. recently, there have been initiatives at the federal and state levels to regulate or otherwise restrict the use of hydraulic fracturing or the disposal of waste water used in the hydraulic fracturing process, and several states have adopted regulations that impose more stringent permitting, disclosure and well-completion requirements on hydraulic fracturing operations. legislation or regulations placing restrictions on hydraulic fracturing activities, including waste-water disposal, could impose operational delays, increased operating costs and additional regulatory burdens on exploration and production operators, which could reduce their production of unprocessed natural gas and, in turn, adversely affect oneok partners' revenues and results of operations by decreasing the volumes of unprocessed natural gas and ngls gathered, treated, processed, fractionated and transported on oneok partners' or its joint ventures' natural gas and natural gas liquids pipelines, several of which gather unprocessed natural gas and ngls from areas where the use of hydraulic fracturing is prevalent. continued development of new supply sources could impact demand. the discovery of nonconventional natural gas production areas nearer to certain market areas that oneok partners serves may compete with natural gas originating in production areas connected to oneok partners' systems. for example, the marcellus shale in pennsylvania, new york, west virginia and ohio may cause natural gas in supply areas connected to oneok partners' systems to be diverted to markets other than its traditional market areas and may affect capacity utilization adversely on oneok partners' pipeline systems and oneok partners' ability to renew or replace existing contracts at rates sufficient to maintain current revenues and cash flows. in addition, supply volumes from these nonconventional natural gas production areas may compete with and displace volumes from the mid-continent, permian, rocky mountains and canadian supply sources in certain of oneok partners' markets. in the natural gas gathering and processing segment, the development of these new nonconventional reserves could move drilling rigs from oneok partners' current service areas to other areas, which may reduce demand for oneok partners' services. in the natural gas pipelines segment, the displacement of natural gas originating in supply areas connected to oneok partners' pipeline systems by these new supply sources that are closer to the end-use markets could result in lower transportation revenues, which could have a material adverse impact on oneok partners' business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. a court may use fraudulent conveyance considerations to avoid or subordinate the intermediate partnership's guarantee of certain of oneok partners' senior notes. various applicable fraudulent conveyance laws have been enacted for the protection of creditors. a court may use fraudulent conveyance laws to subordinate or avoid the guarantee of certain of oneok partners' senior notes issued the intermediate partnership. it is also possible that under certain circumstances, a court could hold that the direct obligations of the intermediate partnership could be superior to the obligations under that guarantee. a court could avoid or subordinate the intermediate partnership's guarantee of certain of oneok partners' senior notes in favor of the intermediate partnership's other debts or liabilities to the extent that the court determined either of the following were true at the time the intermediate partnership issued the guarantee: the intermediate partnership incurred the guarantee with the intent to hinder, delay or defraud any of its present or future creditors or the intermediate partnership contemplated insolvency with a design to favor one or more creditors to the total or partial exclusion of others; or the intermediate partnership did not receive fair consideration or reasonable equivalent value for issuing the guarantee and, at the time it issued the guarantee, the intermediate partnership: was insolvent or rendered insolvent by reason of the issuance of the guarantee; was engaged or about to engage in a business or transaction for which its remaining assets constituted unreasonably small capital; or intended to incur, or believed that it would incur, debts beyond its ability to pay such debts as they matured. 39 table of contents the measure of insolvency for purposes of the foregoing will vary depending upon the law of the relevant jurisdiction. generally, however, an entity would be considered insolvent for purposes of the foregoing if: the sum of its debts, including contingent liabilities, were greater than the fair saleable value of all of its assets at a fair valuation; the present fair saleable value of its assets was less than the amount that would be required to pay its probable liability on its existing debts, including contingent liabilities, as they become absolute and mature; or it could not pay its debts as they become due. among other things, a legal challenge of the intermediate partnership's guarantee of certain of oneok partners' senior notes on fraudulent conveyance grounds may focus on the benefits, if any, realized by the intermediate partnership as a result of oneok partners' issuance of such senior notes. to the extent the intermediate partnership's guarantee of certain of oneok partners' senior notes is avoided as a result of fraudulent conveyance or held unenforceable for any other reason, the holders of such senior notes would cease to have any claim in respect of the guarantee. oneok partners may be unable to cause its joint ventures to take or not to take certain actions unless some or all of its joint-venture participants agree. oneok partners participates in several joint ventures. due to the nature of some of these arrangements, each participant in these joint ventures has made substantial investments in the joint venture and, accordingly, has required that the relevant charter documents contain certain features designed to provide each participant with the opportunity to participate in the management of the joint venture and to protect its investment, as well as any other assets that may be substantially dependent on or otherwise affected by the activities of that joint venture. these participation and protective features customarily include a corporate governance structure that requires at least a majority-in-interest vote to authorize many basic activities and requires a greater voting interest (sometimes up to 100 percent) to authorize more significant activities. examples of these more significant activities are large expenditures or contractual commitments, the construction or acquisition of assets, borrowing money or otherwise raising capital, transactions with affiliates of a joint-venture participant, litigation and transactions not in the ordinary course of business, among others. thus, without the concurrence of joint-venture participants with enough voting interests, oneok partners may be unable to cause any of its joint ventures to take or not to take certain actions, even though those actions may be in the best interest of oneok partners or the particular joint venture. moreover, any joint-venture owner generally may sell, transfer or otherwise modify its ownership interest in a joint venture, whether in a transaction involving third parties or the other joint-venture owners. any such transaction could result in oneok partners being required to partner with different or additional parties. oneok partners' operating cash flow is derived partially from cash distributions it receives from its unconsolidated affiliates. oneok partners' operating cash flow is derived partially from cash distributions it receives from its unconsolidated affiliates, as discussed in note p of the notes to consolidated financial statements. the amount of cash that oneok partners' unconsolidated affiliates can distribute principally depends upon the amount of cash flow these affiliates generate from their respective operations, which may fluctuate from quarter to quarter. oneok partners does not have any direct control over the cash distribution policies of its unconsolidated affiliates. this lack of control may contribute to oneok partners' not having sufficient available cash each quarter to continue paying distributions at its current levels. additionally, the amount of cash that oneok partners has available for cash distribution depends primarily upon its cash flow, including cash flow from financial reserves and working capital borrowings, and is not solely a function of profitability, which will be affected by noncash items such as depreciation, amortization and provisions for asset impairments. as a result, oneok partners may be able to make cash distributions during periods when it records losses and may not be able to make cash distributions during periods when it records net income. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 77 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our exposure to market risk discussed below includes forward-looking statements and represents an estimate of possible changes in future earnings that could occur assuming hypothetical future movements in interest rates or commodity prices. our views on market risk are not necessarily indicative of actual results that may occur and do not represent the maximum possible gains and losses that may occur since actual gains and losses will differ from those estimated based on actual fluctuations in interest rates or commodity prices and the timing of transactions. oneok partners is exposed to market risk due to commodity price and interest-rate volatility and we are exposed to market risk due to interest-rate volatility. market risk is the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices. we and oneok partners may use financial instruments, including forward sales, swaps, options and futures, to manage the risks of certain identifiable or anticipated transactions and achieve a more predictable cash flow. our and oneok partners' risk-management functions follow established policies and procedures to monitor oneok partners' natural gas, condensate and ngl marketing activities and our and oneok partners' interest rates to ensure our hedging activities mitigate market risks. neither we nor oneok partners use financial instruments for trading purposes. we record derivative instruments at fair value. we estimate the fair value of derivative instruments using available market information and appropriate valuation techniques. changes in derivative instruments' fair values are recognized in earnings unless the instrument qualifies as a hedge and meets specific hedge accounting criteria. the effective portion of qualifying derivative instruments' gains and losses may offset the hedged items' related results in earnings for a fair value hedge or be deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) for a cash flow hedge. commodity price risk although oneok partners' businesses are predominately fee based, in the natural gas gathering and processing segment, oneok partners is exposed to commodity price risk as a result of receiving commodities as a portion of its compensation for services associated with its pop with fee contracts. oneok partners has restructured a portion of its pop with fee contracts to include significantly higher fees, which reduces its equity volumes and the related commodity price exposure. however, under certain pop with fee contracts oneok partners' fee revenues may increase or decrease if production volumes, delivery pressures or commodity prices change relative to specified thresholds. oneok partners also is exposed to basis risk between the various production and market locations where it receives and sells commodities. as part of its hedging strategy, oneok partners uses the previously described commodity derivative financial instruments and physical-forward contracts to minimize the impact of near-term price fluctuations related to natural gas, ngls and condensate. as of december 31, 2015 , oneok partners had $49.8 million of commodity-related derivative assets and $8.0 million of commodity-related derivative liabilities, excluding the impact of netting. the following tables set forth hedging information for the natural gas gathering and processing segment's forecasted equity volumes for the periods indicated: year ending december 31, 2016 volumes hedged average price percentage hedged ngls - excluding ethane ( mbbl/d ) - conway/mont belvieu 7.9 $ 0.48 / gallon 80% condensate ( mbbl/d ) - wti-nymex 1.7 $ 59.24 / bbl 57% natural gas ( bbtu/d ) - nymex and basis 74.1 $ 2.96 / mmbtu 83% year ending december 31, 2017 volumes hedged average price percentage hedged ngls - excluding ethane ( mbbl/d ) - conway/mont belvieu 1.0 $ 0.40 / gallon 9% condensate ( mbbl/d ) - wti-nymex 1.5 $ 43.65 / bbl 49% natural gas ( bbtu/d ) - nymex and basis 50.6 $ 2.62 / mmbtu 48% 77 table of contents we expect oneok partners' natural gas liquids and natural gas commodity price sensitivity within this segment to decrease in 2016, compared with 2015, as a result of the restructured contracts completed in 2015. the natural gas gathering and processing segment's commodity price sensitivity is estimated as a hypothetical change in the price of ngls, crude oil and natural gas at december 31, 2015 , excluding the effects of hedging and assuming normal operating conditions. condensate sales are based on the price of crude oil. we estimate the following for oneok partners' forecasted equity volumes: a $0.01 per-gallon change in the composite price of ngls would change 12-month operating income by approximately $1.8 million for the year ending december 31, 2016, compared with approximately $3.0 million estimated at december 31, 2014 for the year ended december 31, 2015; a $1.00 per-barrel change in the price of crude oil would change 12-month operating income by approximately $1.3 million for the year ending december 31, 2016, compared with approximately $1.6 million estimated at december 31, 2014 for the year ended december 31, 2015; and a $0.10 per-mmbtu change in the price of residue natural gas would change 12-month operating income by approximately $3.3 million for the year ending december 31, 2016, compared with approximately $5.2 million estimated at december 31, 2014 for the year ended december 31, 2015. we estimate the following for oneok partners' forecasted equity volumes, including the effects of hedging information set forth above, and assuming normal operating conditions, for the year ending december 31, 2016: a $0.01 per-gallon change in the composite price of ngls would change 12-month operating income by approximately $0.6 million ; a $1.00 per-barrel change in the price of crude oil would change 12-month operating income by approximately $0.7 million ; and a $0.10 per-mmbtu change in the price of residue natural gas would change 12-month operating income by approximately $0.5 million . these estimates do not include any effects on demand for oneok partners' services or natural gas processing plant operations that might be caused by, or arise in conjunction with, commodity price fluctuations. for example, a change in the gross processing spread may cause a change in the amount of ethane extracted from the natural gas stream, impacting gathering and processing financial results for certain contracts. the natural gas liquids segment is exposed to location price differential risk primarily as a result of the relative value of ngl purchases at one location and sales at another location. to a lesser extent, oneok partners is exposed to commodity price risk resulting from the relative values of the various ngl products to each other, ngls in storage and the relative value of ngls to natural gas. oneok partners utilizes physical-forward contracts and commodity derivative financial instruments to reduce the impact of price fluctuations related to ngls. the natural gas pipelines segment is exposed to commodity price risk because its intrastate and interstate natural gas pipelines retain natural gas from its customers for operations or as part of its fee for services provided. when the amount of natural gas consumed in operations by these pipelines differs from the amount provided by its customers, oneok partners' pipelines must buy or sell natural gas, or store or use natural gas from inventory, which can expose it to commodity price risk depending on the regulatory treatment for this activity. to the extent that commodity price risk in the natural gas pipelines segment is not mitigated by fuel cost-recovery mechanisms, oneok partners uses physical-forward sales or purchases to reduce the impact of price fluctuations related to natural gas. at december 31, 2015 and 2014 , there were no financial derivative instruments with respect to its natural gas pipeline operations. see note e of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this annual report for more information on oneok partners' hedging activities. interest-rate risk we and oneok partners are exposed to interest-rate risk through the oneok credit agreement, the oneok partners credit agreement, oneok partners' commercial paper program and long-term debt issuances. future increases in libor, corporate commercial paper rates or corporate bond rates could expose us and oneok partners to increased interest costs on future borrowings. we and oneok partners manage interest-rate risk through the use of fixed-rate debt, floating-rate debt and interest-rate swaps. interest-rate swaps are agreements to exchange interest payments at some future point based on specified notional amounts. at december 31, 2015 and 2014 , oneok partners had forward-starting interest-rate swaps with notional amounts totaling $400 million and $900 million, respectively, that have been designated as cash flow hedges of the variability of interest payments on a portion of forecasted debt issuances that may result from changes in the benchmark interest rate before the debt is issued. future issuances of long-term debt could be impacted by increases in interest rates, which could 78 table of contents result in higher interest costs. at december 31, 2015 , oneok partners had derivative liabilities of $9.9 million related to these interest-rate swaps. at december 31, 2014 , oneok partners had derivative assets of $2.3 million and derivative liabilities of $44.8 million related to these interest-rate swaps. in january 2016, oneok partners entered into forward-starting interest-rate swaps with notional amounts totaling $1.0 billion for the period of april 2016 through july 2018 and forward-starting interest-rate swaps with notional amounts totaling $500 million for the period of july 2018 through january 2019 that were designated as cash flow hedges to hedge the variability on our libor-based interest payments. see note e of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this annual report for more information on oneok partners' hedging activities. counterparty credit risk oneok and oneok partners assess the creditworthiness of their counterparties on an ongoing basis and require security, including prepayments and other forms of collateral, when appropriate. certain of oneok partners' counterparties to the natural gas gathering and processing segment's natural gas sales, the natural gas liquids segment's marketing activities and the natural gas pipelines segment's storage activities may be impacted by the depressed commodity price environment and could experience financial problems, which could result in nonpayment and/or nonperformance, which could adversely impact our results of operations. customer concentration - in 2015, no single customer represented more than 10 percent of our consolidated revenues and only 15 customers individually represented one percent or more of our consolidated revenues. natural gas gathering and processing - the natural gas gathering and processing segment's customers are primarily large integrated and independent exploration and production companies. oneok partners is not typically exposed to material credit risk with exploration and production customers under pop with fee contracts as it receives proceeds from the sale of commodities and remits a portion of those proceeds back to the crude oil and natural gas producers. in 2015, 99 percent of the downstream commodity sales in the natural gas gathering and processing segment were made to investment-grade customers, as rated by s&amp;p or moody's, or our comparable internal ratings, or secured by letters of credit or other collateral. natural gas liquids - the natural gas liquids segment's customers are primarily ngl and natural gas gathering and processing companies; major and independent crude oil and natural gas production companies; propane distributors; ethanol producers; and petrochemical, refining and ngl marketing companies. oneok partners earns fee revenue from ngl and natural gas gathering and processing customers and natural gas liquids pipeline transportation customers. oneok partners is not typically exposed to material credit risk on the majority of its exchange services fee revenues, as oneok partners purchases ngls from its gathering and processing customers and deducts fees from the amounts it remits. oneok partners also earns sales revenue on the downstream sales of ngl products. in 2015, more than 80 percent of this segment's commodity sales were made to investment-grade customers, as rated by s&amp;p or moody's, or our comparable internal ratings, or secured by letters of credit or other collateral. in addition, the majority of the natural gas liquids segment's pipeline tariffs provide oneok partners the ability to require security from shippers. natural gas pipelines - the natural gas pipelines segment's customers are primarily local natural gas distribution companies, electric-generation facilities, large industrial companies, municipalities, irrigation customers and marketing companies. in 2015, more than 85 percent of the revenues in this segment were from investment-grade customers, as rated by s&amp;p or moody's, or our comparable internal ratings, or secured by letters of credit or other collateral. in addition, the majority of the natural gas pipeline segment's pipeline tariffs provide oneok partners the ability to require security from shippers. 79 table of contents this page intentionally left blank. 80 table of contentsrisk factors 20 risk factors our investors should consider the following risks that could affect us and our business. although we have tried to identify key factors, our investors need to be aware that other risks may prove to be important in the future. new risks may emerge at any time, and we cannot predict such risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect our financial performance. risks related to oneok partners' business discussed below will also affect us indirectly as we are the sole general partner and, as of december 31, 2016 , owned 41.2 percent of oneok partners. investors should carefully consider the following discussion of risks and the other information included or incorporated by reference in this annual report, including forward-looking statements, which are included in item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. 20 table of contents risks related to the merger transaction the merger transaction is subject to conditions and may not be consummated even if the required oneok shareholder and oneok partners unitholder approvals are obtained. the merger transaction is subject to the satisfaction or waiver of certain conditions, including approval of the merger agreement by oneok partners' unitholders and approval of the issuance of oneok common stock in connection with the merger transaction by oneok shareholders, some of which are out of the control of oneok and oneok partners. the merger agreement contains other conditions that, if not satisfied or waived, would result in the merger transaction not occurring, even though the oneok shareholders and the oneok partners unitholders may have voted in favor of the merger transaction-related proposals presented to them. satisfaction of some of these other conditions to the merger transaction is not entirely in the control of oneok or oneok partners. in addition, oneok and oneok partners can agree not to consummate the merger transaction even if all shareholder and unitholder approvals have been received. the closing conditions to the merger transaction may not be satisfied, and oneok and oneok partners may choose not to, or may be unable to, waive an unsatisfied condition, which may cause the merger transaction not to occur. the merger agreement contains certain termination rights for both oneok and oneok partners, including, among others, (i) by oneok or oneok partners, if the merger transaction is not consummated by september 30, 2017, (ii) by oneok, if the board of directors or the conflicts committee of oneok partners gp takes certain actions with respect to its recommendation of the merger prior to the oneok partners' unitholder meeting, and (iii) by oneok partners, if a special committee of the oneok board of directors takes certain actions with respect to its recommendation of the issuance of oneok common stock in connection with the merger transaction prior to the oneok shareholder meeting. in the event of termination of the merger agreement under certain circumstances, we may be required to pay oneok partners a termination fee in the form of a temporary reduction in incentive distributions (up to, in certain instances, $300 million) and, under other certain circumstances, oneok partners may be required to pay us a termination fee (up to, in certain instances, $300 million in cash). we and oneok partners may incur substantial transaction-related costs in connection with the merger transaction. we and oneok partners expect to incur nonrecurring transaction-related costs associated with completing the merger transaction. nonrecurring transaction costs include, but are not limited to, fees paid to legal, financial and accounting advisors, filing fees, proxy solicitation costs and printing costs. failure to complete, or significant delays in completing, the merger transaction could negatively affect the trading price of our common stock and our future business and financial results. completion of the merger transaction is not assured and is subject to risks, including the risks that approval of the merger transaction by our shareholders or by any applicable governmental agencies or third parties is not obtained or that other closing conditions are not satisfied. if the merger transaction is not completed, or if there are significant delays in completing the merger transaction, the trading price of our common stock and our future business and financial results could be negatively affected, and we will be subject to several risks, including the following: we and oneok partners may be liable for damages to one another under the terms and conditions of the merger agreement; negative reactions from the financial markets, including declines in the price of our common stock due to the fact that the current price may reflect a market assumption that the merger transaction will be completed; having to pay certain significant costs relating to the merger transaction; and the attention of management may have been diverted to the merger transaction rather than its own operations and pursuit of other opportunities that could have been beneficial to oneok. we may not realize the benefits we expect from the merger transaction. we believe that the merger transaction will, among other things, provide increased financial flexibility for execution of our strategic growth plan. however, our assessments and expectations regarding the anticipated benefits of the merger transaction may prove to be incorrect. accordingly, there can be no assurance we will realize the anticipated benefits of the merger transaction. 21 table of contents we are subject to provisions that limit our ability to pursue alternatives to the merger transaction and could discourage a potential acquirer of ours that does not want the merger transaction completed from making a favorable alternative transaction proposal. under the merger agreement, we are restricted from soliciting any proposal for, or initiating discussions regarding, any acquisition transaction regarding oneok that is reasonably likely to impede or delay the closing of the merger transaction. unless and until the merger agreement is terminated, subject to specified exceptions, we are restricted from, among other things, soliciting, initiating, knowingly facilitating, knowingly encouraging or knowingly inducing, any inquiry, proposal or offer for an acquisition proposal for oneok that is reasonably likely to impede or delay the closing of the merger transaction. these and other provisions in the merger agreement could discourage a third party that may have an interest in acquiring all or a significant part of oneok from considering or proposing that acquisition. risks inherent in oneok's business our cash flow depends heavily on the earnings and distributions of oneok partners. our partnership interest in oneok partners is our primary cash-generating source. therefore, our cash flow is heavily dependent upon the ability of oneok partners to make cash distributions to its partners. a significant decline in oneok partners' earnings and/or cash distributions could have a corresponding negative impact on us. for information on the risk factors inherent in the business of oneok partners, see the section below entitled additional risk factors related to oneok partners' business and item 1a, risk factors in the oneok partners' annual report. our indebtedness could impair our financial condition and our ability to fulfill our obligations. as of december 31, 2016 , we had total indebtedness of approximately $1.6 billion , which excludes the debt of oneok partners. our indebtedness could have significant consequences. for example, it could: make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our senior notes and our other indebtedness due to the increased debt-service obligations, which could, in turn, result in an event of default on such other indebtedness or our senior notes; impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general business purposes; diminish our ability to withstand a downturn in our business or the economy; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to debt-service payments, reducing the availability of cash for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, dividends or general corporate purposes; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which oneok partners operates; and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared with our competitors that have proportionately less debt. we are not prohibited under the indentures governing our senior notes from incurring additional indebtedness, but our debt agreements do subject us to certain operational limitations summarized in the next paragraph. if we incur significant additional indebtedness, it could worsen the negative consequences mentioned above and could affect adversely our ability to repay our other indebtedness. our revolving debt agreements with banks contain provisions that restrict our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to expand or pursue our business activities. for example, certain of these agreements contain provisions that, among other things, limit our ability to make loans or investments, make material changes to the nature of our business, merge, consolidate or engage in asset sales, grant liens or make negative pledges. certain agreements also require us to maintain certain financial ratios, which limit the amount of additional indebtedness we can incur, as described in the liquidity and capital resources section of item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation. these restrictions could result in higher costs of borrowing and impair our ability to generate additional cash. future financing agreements we may enter into may contain similar or more restrictive covenants. if we are unable to meet our debt-service obligations, we could be forced to restructure or refinance our indebtedness, seek additional equity capital or sell assets. we may be unable to obtain financing or sell assets on satisfactory terms, or at all. 22 table of contents federal, state and local jurisdictions may challenge our tax return positions. the positions taken in our federal and state tax return filings require significant judgments, use of estimates and the interpretation and application of complex tax laws. significant judgment is also required in assessing the timing and amounts of deductible and taxable items. despite management's belief that our tax return positions are fully supportable, certain positions may be successfully challenged by federal, state and local jurisdictions. the separation of one gas could result in substantial tax liability. we have received a private letter ruling from the irs substantially to the effect that, for u.s. federal income tax purposes, the separation and certain related transactions qualify under sections 355 and/or 368 of the u.s. internal revenue code of 1986, as amended. if the factual assumptions or representations made in the request for the private letter ruling prove to have been inaccurate or incomplete in any material respect, then we will not be able to rely on the ruling. furthermore, the irs does not rule on whether a distribution such as the separation satisfies certain requirements necessary to obtain tax-free treatment under section 355 of the code. the private letter ruling was based on representations by us that those requirements were satisfied, and any inaccuracy in those representations could invalidate the ruling. in connection with the separation, we obtained an opinion of outside legal and tax counsel, substantially to the effect that, for u.s. federal income tax purposes, the separation and certain related transactions qualify under sections 355 and 368 of the code. the opinion relies on, among other things, the continuing validity of the private letter ruling and various assumptions and representations as to factual matters made by us which, if inaccurate or incomplete in any material respect, would jeopardize the conclusions reached by such counsel in its opinion. the opinion will not be binding on the irs or the courts, and there can be no assurance that the irs or the courts would not challenge the conclusions stated in the opinion or that any such challenge would not prevail. we have a holding company structure in which our subsidiaries conduct our operations and own our operating assets. we are a holding company, and our subsidiaries conduct all of our operations and own all of our operating assets. we do not have significant assets other than our interests in oneok partners and the equity in our subsidiaries. as a result, our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders and to service our debt depends on the performance of our subsidiaries and their ability to distribute funds to us. the ability of our subsidiaries to make distributions to us may be restricted by, among other things, partnership agreements, credit facilities, applicable state partnership laws and other laws and regulations. if we are unable to obtain funds from our subsidiaries, we may not be able to pay dividends to our shareholders or to pay interest or principal on our debt when due. although we control oneok partners, we may have conflicts of interest with oneok partners that could subject us to claims that we have breached our fiduciary duty to oneok partners and its unitholders. we are the sole general partner and owned 41.2 percent of oneok partners as of december 31, 2016. conflicts of interest may arise between us and oneok partners and its unitholders. in resolving these conflicts, we may favor our own interests and the interests of our affiliates over the interests of oneok partners and its unitholders as long as the resolution does not conflict with the partnership agreement or our fiduciary duties to oneok partners and its unitholders. if we are not fully reimbursed or indemnified for obligations and liabilities we incur in managing the business and affairs of oneok partners, the value of our shares could decline. in our capacity as the general partner of oneok partners, we may make expenditures on oneok partners' behalf for which we will seek reimbursement from oneok partners. in addition, under delaware partnership law, we have, in our capacity as oneok partners' general partner, unlimited liability for the obligations of oneok partners, such as oneok partners' debts and environmental liabilities, except for those contractual obligations of oneok partners that are expressly made without recourse to the general partner and as limited by the partnership agreement. to the extent we incur obligations on behalf of oneok partners, we are entitled to be reimbursed or indemnified by oneok partners. if oneok partners is unable or unwilling to reimburse or indemnify us, we may be unable to satisfy these liabilities or obligations, which would likely reduce the value of our shares. oneok partners' unitholders have the right to remove us as their general partner with the approval of the holders of 66 2/3 percent of all units, excluding the units held by us, which would cause us to lose our general partner interest and incentive distribution rights in oks and the ability to manage them. we currently manage oneok partners through our ownership of its general partner interest. the partnership agreement gives common unitholders of oneok partners the right to remove the general partner of oneok partners upon the affirmative vote 23 table of contents of holders of 66 2/3 percent of oneok partners' outstanding units, excluding the units held by the general partner and its affiliates. if we were removed as general partner of oneok partners, we would receive cash or common units in exchange for our 2.0 percent general partner interest and incentive distribution rights, and our class b units would have the right to share in partnership quarterly cash distributions based on 123.5 percent of the amount of any partnership cash distribution, but we would lose the ability to manage oneok partners. although the common units or cash we would receive are intended under the terms of the partnership agreement to fully compensate us in the event such an exchange is required, the value of these common units or investments we make with the cash over time may not be equivalent to the value of the general partner interest and the incentive distribution rights had we retained them. a reduction in oneok partners' cash distributions would disproportionately affect the amount of cash distributions to which we are entitled. through our ownership of the incentive distribution rights in oneok partners, we are entitled to receive our pro rata share of specified percentages of total cash distributions made by oneok partners as it reaches established target cash distribution levels as specified in the the partnership agreement. we currently receive a portion of our pro rata share of cash distributions from oneok partners based on the highest incremental percentage, 50 percent, to which we are entitled pursuant to our incentive distribution rights in oneok partners. as a result, any reduction in quarterly cash distributions from oneok partners would have the effect of disproportionately reducing the amount of all cash distributions that we receive from oneok partners based on our ownership interest in the incentive distribution rights in oneok partners as compared to cash distributions we receive on our general partner interest in oneok partners and our oneok partners common units. cash distributions on our incentive distribution rights in oneok partners are more uncertain than cash distributions on the common and class b units we hold. our ownership of the incentive distribution rights in oneok partners entitles us to receive our pro rata share of specified percentages of total cash distributions made by oneok partners with respect to any particular quarter only in the event that oneok partners distributes more than $0.3025 per unit for such quarter. as a result, the holders of oneok partners' common and class b units have a priority over the holders of oneok partners' incentive distribution rights to the extent of cash distributions by oneok partners up to and including $0.3025 per unit for any quarter. this priority results in greater certainty of common unitholders and class b unitholders receiving distributions, when compared to holders of incentive distribution rights. oneok partners may issue additional units, which may increase the risk that oneok partners will not have sufficient available cash to maintain or increase its per unit cash distribution level. oneok partners may issue additional units, including units that rank senior to the oneok partners' common units, class b units and the incentive distribution rights as to quarterly cash distributions. the payment of cash distributions on those additional units may increase the risk that oneok partners may not have sufficient cash available to maintain or increase its per unit distribution level, which in turn may impact the available cash that we receive from oneok partners to pay dividends. to the extent these units are senior to the common units, class b units or the incentive distribution rights, there is an increased risk that we will not receive the same level or increased cash distributions on the common units, class b units and incentive distribution rights we own. neither the common units, class b units nor the incentive distribution rights are entitled to any arrearages from prior quarters. our ability to sell our partnership interests in oneok partners may be limited by securities law restrictions and liquidity constraints. all of the approximately 41.3 million common units and approximately 73.0 million class b units of oneok partners that we own are either unregistered, restricted or control securities or registered control securities within the meaning of rule 144 under the securities act, and thus cannot be sold by us without registration or an applicable exemption from registration. pursuant to the terms of the partnership agreement, we only have registration rights with respect to such oneok partners common units and class b units if rule 144 of the securities act (or any successor rule or regulation to rule 144) or another exemption from registration is not available to enable us to dispose of such oneok partners common units or class b units at the time we desire to do so without registration under the securities act. due to the foregoing limitation, we are primarily limited to sales pursuant to rule 144, which limits selling into the market in any three-month period to an amount of oneok partners' common and/or class b units that does not exceed the greater of 1 percent of the total number of oneok partners' common units outstanding or the average weekly reported trading volume of oneok partners' common units for the four calendar weeks prior to the sale. in addition, we face contractual limitations on our ability to sell our general partner interest and incentive distribution rights, and the market for such interests is illiquid. 24 table of contents holders of our common stock may not receive dividends in the amount identified in guidance, or any dividends at all. we may not have sufficient cash each quarter to pay dividends or maintain current or expected levels of dividends. the actual amount of cash we pay in the form of dividends may fluctuate from quarter to quarter and will depend on various factors, some of which are beyond our control, including the amount of cash that oneok partners distributes to us, our working capital needs, our ability to borrow, the restrictions contained in our indentures and credit facility, our debt service requirements and the cost of acquisitions, if any. a failure either to pay dividends or to pay dividends at expected levels could result in a loss of investor confidence, reputational damage and a decrease in the value of our stock price. the cost of providing pension and postretirement health care benefits to eligible employees and qualified retirees is subject to changes in pension fund values and changing demographics and may increase. we have a defined benefit pension plan for certain employees and postretirement welfare plans that provide postretirement medical and life insurance benefits to certain employees who retire with at least five years of service. the cost of providing these benefits to eligible current and former employees is subject to changes in the market value of our pension and postretirement benefit plan assets, changing demographics, including longer life expectancy of plan participants and their beneficiaries and changes in health care costs. for further discussion of our defined benefit pension plan, see note l of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this annual report. any sustained declines in equity markets and reductions in bond yields may have a material adverse effect on the value of our pension and postretirement benefit plan assets. in these circumstances, additional cash contributions to our pension plans may be required, which could aversely impact our business, financial condition and liquidity. risks inherent in both oneok and oneok partners market volatility and capital availability could affect adversely our business. the capital and global credit markets have experienced volatility and disruption in the past. in many cases during these periods, the capital markets have exerted downward pressure on equity values and reduced the credit capacity for certain companies. much of oneok partners' business is capital intensive, and its ability to grow is dependent, in part, upon our and oneok partners' ability to access capital at rates and on terms we determine to be attractive. similar or more severe levels of global market disruption and volatility may have an adverse effect on us or oneok partners resulting from, but not limited to, disruption of access to capital and credit markets, difficulty in obtaining financing necessary to expand facilities or acquire assets, increased financing costs and increasingly restrictive covenants. if we or oneok partners' are unable to access capital at competitive rates, oneok partners' strategy of enhancing the earnings potential of its existing assets, including through capital-growth projects and acquisitions of complementary assets or businesses, may be affected adversely. a number of factors could affect adversely our and oneok partners' ability to access capital, including: (i) general economic conditions; (ii) capital market conditions; (iii) market prices for natural gas, ngls and other hydrocarbons; (iv) the overall health of the energy and related industries; (v) ability to maintain investment-grade credit ratings; (vi) unit price and (vii) capital structure. if our and oneok partners' ability to access capital becomes constrained significantly, our and oneok partners' interest costs and cost of equity will likely increase and could affect adversely our financial condition and future results of operations. our operating results may be affected materially and adversely by unfavorable economic and market conditions. economic conditions worldwide have from time to time contributed to slowdowns in the oil and natural gas industry, as well as in the specific segments and markets in which oneok partners operates, resulting in reduced demand and increased price competition for its products and services. oneok partners' operating results in one or more geographic regions may also be affected by uncertain or changing economic conditions within that region. volatility in commodity prices may have an impact on many of oneok partners' customers, which, in turn, could have a negative impact on their ability to meet their obligations to oneok partners. if global economic and market conditions (including volatility in commodity markets) or economic conditions in the united states or other key markets remain uncertain or persist, spread or deteriorate further, we and oneok partners may experience material impacts on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. terrorist attacks directed at our or oneok partners' facilities could affect adversely our business. the united states government has issued warnings that energy assets, specifically the nation's pipeline infrastructure, may be future targets of terrorist organizations. these developments may subject oneok partners' operations to increased risks. any 25 table of contents future terrorist attack that targets oneok partners' facilities, those of its customers and, in some cases, those of other pipelines, or our facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business. our businesses are subject to market and credit risks. we and oneok partners are exposed to market and credit risks in all of our operations. to reduce the impact of commodity price fluctuations, oneok partners uses derivative transactions, such as swaps, futures and forwards, to hedge anticipated purchases and sales of natural gas, ngls and crude oil and firm transportation commitments. interest-rate swaps are also used to manage interest-rate risk. however, derivative instruments do not eliminate the risks. specifically, such risks include commodity price changes, market supply shortages, interest-rate changes and counterparty default. the impact of these variables could result in our and oneok partners' inability to fulfill contractual obligations, significantly higher energy or fuel costs relative to corresponding sales contracts, or increased interest expense. we or oneok partners may not be able to make additional strategic acquisitions or investments. our and oneok partners' ability to make strategic acquisitions and investments will depend on: the extent to which acquisitions and investment opportunities become available; success in bidding for the opportunities that do become available; regulatory approval, if required, of the acquisitions or investments on favorable terms; and access to capital, including the ability to use our or equity in acquisitions or investments, and the terms upon which we obtain capital. if we or oneok partners are unable to make strategic investments and acquisitions, we or oneok partners may be unable to grow. acquisitions that appear to be accretive may nevertheless reduce our cash from operations on a per-share basis. any acquisition involves potential risks that may include, among other things: inaccurate assumptions about volumes, revenues and costs, including potential synergies; an inability to integrate successfully the businesses we acquire; decrease in our liquidity as a result of our using a significant portion of our available cash or borrowing capacity to finance the acquisition; a significant increase in our interest expense and/or financial leverage if we incur additional debt to finance the acquisition; the assumption of unknown liabilities for which we are not indemnified, our indemnity is inadequate or our insurance policies may exclude from coverage; an inability to hire, train or retain qualified personnel to manage and operate the acquired business and assets; limitations on rights to indemnity from the seller; inaccurate assumptions about the overall costs of equity or debt; the diversion of management's and employees' attention from other business concerns; unforeseen difficulties operating in new product areas or new geographic areas; increased regulatory burdens; customer or key employee losses at an acquired business; and increased regulatory requirements. if we or oneok partners consummate any future acquisitions, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly, and investors will not have the opportunity to evaluate the economic, financial and other relevant information that we will consider in determining the application of our resources to future acquisitions. our and oneok partners' established risk-management policies and procedures may not be effective, and employees may violate our risk-management policies. we have developed and implemented a comprehensive set of policies and procedures that involve both our senior management and the audit committee of our board of directors to assist us in managing risks associated with, among other things, the marketing, trading and risk-management activities associated with our business segments. our risk policies and procedures are intended to align strategies, processes, people, information technology and business knowledge so that risk is managed throughout the organization. as conditions change and become more complex, current risk measures may fail to adequately assess the relevant risk due to changes in the market and the presence of risks previously unknown to us. additionally, if 26 table of contents employees fail to adhere to our policies and procedures or if our policies and procedures are not effective, potentially because of future conditions or risks outside of our control, we may be exposed to greater risk than we had intended. ineffective risk-management policies and procedures or violation of risk-management policies and procedures could have an adverse affect on our earnings, financial position or cash flows. our use of financial instruments to hedge interest-rate risk may result in reduced income. we and oneok partners utilize financial instruments to mitigate our exposure to interest-rate fluctuations. hedging instruments that are used to reduce our exposure to interest-rate fluctuations could expose us to risk of financial loss, including where we may contract for variable-rate swap instruments to hedge fixed-rate instruments and the variable rate exceeds the fixed rate. in addition, these hedging arrangements may limit the benefit we would otherwise receive if we had contracted for fixed-rate swap agreements to hedge variable-rate instruments and the variable rate falls below the fixed rate. an impairment of goodwill, long-lived assets, including intangible assets, and equity-method investments could reduce our earnings. goodwill is recorded when the purchase price of a business exceeds the fair market value of the tangible and separately measurable intangible net assets. gaap requires us to test goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives for impairment on an annual basis or when events or circumstances occur indicating that goodwill might be impaired. long-lived assets, including intangible assets with finite useful lives, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. for the investments oneok partners accounts for under the equity method, the impairment test considers whether the fair value of the equity investment as a whole, not the underlying net assets, has declined and whether that decline is other than temporary. for example, if the current energy commodity price environment persists for a prolonged period or further declines, it could result in lower volumes delivered to oneok partners' systems and impairments of oneok partners' assets or equity-method investments. if we determine that an impairment is indicated, we would be required to take an immediate noncash charge to earnings with a correlative effect on our equity and balance sheet leverage as measured by consolidated debt to total capitalization. a breach of information security, including a cybersecurity attack, or failure of one or more key information technology or operational systems, or those of third parties, may affect adversely our operations, financial results or reputation. our businesses are dependent upon our operational systems to process a large amount of data and complex transactions. the various uses of these it systems, networks and services include, but are not limited to: controlling oneok partners' plants and pipelines with industrial control systems including supervisory control and data acquisition (scada); collecting and storing customer, employee, investor and other stakeholder information and data; processing transactions; summarizing and reporting results of operations; hosting, processing and sharing confidential and proprietary research, business plans and financial information; complying with regulatory, legal or tax requirements; providing data security; and handling other processing necessary to manage our business. if any of our systems are damaged, fail to function properly or otherwise become unavailable, we may incur substantial costs to repair or replace them and may experience loss or corruption of critical data and interruptions or delays in our ability to perform critical functions, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. our financial results could also be affected adversely if an employee causes our operational systems to fail, either as a result of inadvertent error or by deliberately tampering with or manipulating our operational systems. in addition, dependence upon automated systems may further increase the risk that operational system flaws, employee tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect. due to increased technology advances, we have become more reliant on technology to help increase efficiency in our businesses. we use computer programs to help run our financial and operations organizations, and this may subject our business to increased risks. in recent years, there has been a rise in the number of cyberattacks on companies' network and information systems by both state-sponsored and criminal organizations, and as a result, the risks associated with such an event continue to increase. a significant failure, compromise, breach or interruption in our systems could result in a disruption of our operations, customer dissatisfaction, damage to our reputation and a loss of customers or revenues. if any such failure, interruption or similar event results in the improper disclosure of information maintained in our information systems and 27 table of contents networks or those of our vendors, including personnel, customer and vendor information, we could also be subject to liability under relevant contractual obligations and laws and regulations protecting personal data and privacy. efforts by us and our vendors to develop, implement and maintain security measures may not be successful in preventing these events from occurring, and any network and information systems-related events could require us to expend significant resources to remedy such event. although we believe that we have robust information security procedures and other safeguards in place, as cyberthreats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend additional resources to continue to enhance our information security measures and/or to investigate and remediate information security vulnerabilities. cyberattacks against us or others in our industry could result in additional regulations. current efforts by the federal government, such as the improving critical infrastructure cybersecurity executive order, and any potential future regulations could lead to increased regulatory compliance costs, insurance coverage cost or capital expenditures. we cannot predict the potential impact to our business or the energy industry resulting from additional regulations. if we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to report accurately our financial results or prevent fraud. as a result, current and potential holders of our equity and debt securities could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and cost of capital. effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports, prevent fraud and operate successfully as a public company. we cannot be certain that our efforts to maintain our internal controls will be successful, that we will be able to maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future or that we will be able to continue to comply with our obligations under section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. any failure to maintain effective internal controls, or difficulties encountered in implementing or improving our internal controls, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. ineffective internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which would likely have a negative effect on the trading price of our equity interests. changes in interest rates could affect adversely our business. we use both fixed- and variable-rate debt, and we are exposed to market risk due to the floating interest rates on our short-term borrowings. from time to time, we use interest-rate derivatives to hedge interest obligations on specific debt issuances, including anticipated debt issuances. these hedges may be ineffective, and our results of operations, cash flows and financial position could be affected adversely by significant fluctuations or increases or decreases in interest rates from current levels. a shortage of skilled labor may make it difficult for us to maintain labor productivity and competitive costs, which could affect operations and cash flows available for distribution. our operations require skilled and experienced workers with proficiency in multiple tasks. in recent years, a shortage of workers trained in various skills associated with the midstream energy business has caused us to conduct certain operations without full staff, thus hiring outside resources, which may decrease productivity and increase costs. this shortage of trained workers is the result of experienced workers reaching retirement age and increased competition for workers in certain areas, combined with the difficulty of attracting new workers to the midstream energy industry. this shortage of skilled labor could continue over an extended period. if the shortage of experienced labor continues or worsens, it could have an adverse impact on labor productivity and costs and our ability to expand production in the event there is an increase in the demand for our products and services, which could affect adversely our operations and cash flows available for distribution to oneok partners' unitholders and, in turn, to cash flows available for dividends to oneok shareholders. additional risks related to oneok partners' business risks related to oneok partners' business discussed below will also affect us as we are the sole general partner and, as of december 31, 2016 , owned 41.2 percent of oneok partners. increased competition could have a significant adverse financial impact on oneok partners' business. the natural gas and natural gas liquids industries are expected to remain highly competitive. the demand for natural gas and ngls is primarily a function of commodity prices, including prices for alternative energy sources, customer usage rates, weather, economic conditions and service costs. oneok partners' ability to compete also depends on a number of other factors, including competition from other companies for its existing customers; the efficiency, quality and reliability of the services it provides; and competition for throughput at its gathering systems, pipelines, processing plants, fractionators and storage facilities. 28 table of contents the volatility of natural gas, crude oil and ngl prices could affect adversely oneok partners' cash flows. a significant portion of oneok partners' revenues are derived from the sale of commodities that are received as payment for natural gas gathering and processing services, for the transportation and storage of natural gas, and from the purchase and sale of ngls and ngl products. commodity prices have been volatile and are likely to continue to be so in the future. the prices oneok partners receives for its commodities are subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors beyond oneok partners' control, including, but not limited to, the following: overall domestic and global economic conditions; relatively minor changes in the supply of, and demand for, domestic and foreign energy; market uncertainty; the availability and cost of third-party transportation, natural gas processing and fractionation capacity; the level of consumer product demand and storage inventory levels; ethane rejection; geopolitical conditions impacting supply and demand for natural gas, ngls and crude oil; weather conditions; domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; the price and availability of alternative fuels; speculation in the commodity futures markets; the effects of imports and exports on the price of natural gas, crude oil, ngl and liquefied natural gas; the effect of worldwide energy-conservation measures; the impact of new supplies, new pipelines, processing and fractionation facilities on location price differentials; and technology and improved efficiency impacting supply and demand for natural gas, ngls and crude oil. these external factors and the volatile nature of the energy markets make it difficult to reliably estimate future prices of commodities and the impact commodity price fluctuations have on oneok partners' customers and their need for its services. as commodity prices decline, oneok partners is paid less for its commodities, thereby reducing its cash flow. in addition, crude oil, natural gas and ngl production could also decline due to lower prices. if the level of drilling in the regions in which oneok partners operates declines substantially near its assets, oneok partners' volumes and revenue could decline. oneok partners' gathering and transportation pipeline systems are connected to, and dependent on the level of production from, natural gas and crude oil wells, from which production will naturally decline over time. as a result, its cash flows associated with these wells will also decline over time. in order to maintain or increase throughput levels on oneok partners' gathering and transportation pipeline systems and the asset utilization rates at its processing and fractionation plants, it must continually obtain new supplies. oneok partners' ability to maintain or expand its businesses depends largely on the level of drilling and production by third parties in the regions in which it operates. oneok partners' natural gas and ngl supply volumes may be impacted if producers curtail or redirect drilling and production activities. drilling and production are impacted by factors beyond oneok partners' control, including: demand and prices for natural gas, ngls and crude oil; producers' access to capital; producers' finding and development costs of reserves; producers' desire and ability to obtain necessary permits in a timely and economic manner; natural gas field characteristics and production performance; surface access and infrastructure issues; and capacity constraints on natural gas, crude oil and natural gas liquids infrastructure from the producing areas and oneok partners' facilities. commodity prices have declined substantially and experienced significant volatility. drilling and production activity levels may vary across oneok partners' geographic areas; however, a prolonged period of low commodity prices may reduce drilling and production activities across all areas. if oneok partners' is not able to obtain new supplies to replace the natural decline in volumes from existing wells or because of competition, throughput on its gathering and transportation pipeline systems and the utilization rates of its processing and fractionation facilities would decline, which could have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows, and its ability to make cash distributions. 29 table of contents oneok partners is exposed to the credit risk of its customers or counterparties, and its credit risk management may not be adequate to protect against such risk. oneok partners is subject to the risk of loss resulting from nonpayment and/or nonperformance by oneok partners' customers or counterparties. oneok partners' customers or counterparties may experience rapid deterioration of their financial condition as a result of changing market conditions, commodity prices or financial difficulties that could impact their creditworthiness or ability to pay oneok partners for its services. oneok partners assesses the creditworthiness of its customers or counterparties and obtains collateral or contractual terms as it deems appropriate. oneok partners cannot, however, predict to what extent its business may be impacted by deteriorating market or financial conditions, including possible declines in its customers' and counterparties' creditworthiness. the recent decline in commodity prices has negatively impacted the financial condition of certain customers and counterparties and further declines, a prolonged low commodity price environment or continued volatility could impact their ability to meet their financial obligations to oneok partners. oneok partners' customers and counterparties may not perform or adhere to its existing or future contractual arrangements. to the extent oneok partners' customers and counterparties are in financial distress or commence bankruptcy proceedings, contracts with them may be subject to renegotiation or rejection under applicable provisions of the united states bankruptcy code. if oneok partners fails to assess adequately the creditworthiness of existing or future customers and counterparties, any material nonpayment or nonperformance by its customers and counterparties due to inability or unwillingness to perform or adhere to contractual arrangements could have a material adverse impact on oneok partners' business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to its unitholders. oneok partners' primary market areas are located in the mid-continent, rocky mountain, permian basin and gulf coast regions of the u.s. oneok partners' revenues are derived primarily from major integrated and independent exploration and production, pipeline, marketing and petrochemical companies. therefore oneok partners' customers and counterparties may be similarly affected by changes in economic, regulatory or other factors that may affect its overall credit risk. some of oneok partners' nonregulated businesses have a higher level of risk than its regulated businesses. some of oneok partners' nonregulated operations, which include the natural gas gathering and processing segment and much of the natural gas liquids segment, have a higher level of risk than its regulated operations, which include a portion of the natural gas pipelines segment and a portion of the natural gas liquids segment. oneok partners expects to continue investing in natural gas and natural gas liquids projects and other related projects, some or all of which may involve nonregulated businesses or assets. these projects could involve risks associated with operational factors, such as competition and dependence on certain suppliers and customers; and financial, economic and political factors, such as rapid and significant changes in commodity prices, the cost and availability of capital and counterparty risk, including the inability of a counterparty, customer or supplier to fulfill a contractual obligation. measurement adjustments on oneok partners' pipeline system may be affected materially by changes in estimation, type of commodity and other factors. natural gas and natural gas liquids measurement adjustments occur as part of the normal operating conditions associated with oneok partners' assets. the quantification and resolution of measurement adjustments are complicated by several factors including: (1) the significant number ( i.e ., thousands) of meters that oneok partners uses throughout its natural gas and natural gas liquids systems, primarily around its gathering and processing assets; (2) varying qualities of natural gas in the streams gathered and processed and the mixed nature of ngls gathered and fractionated through oneok partners' systems; and (3) variances in measurement that are inherent in metering technologies. each of these factors may contribute to measurement adjustments that can occur on oneok partners' systems, which could affect negatively its business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. many of oneok partners' pipeline and storage assets have been in service for several decades. many of oneok partners' pipeline and storage assets are designed as long-lived assets. over time the age of these assets could result in increased maintenance or remediation expenditures and an increased risk of product releases and associated costs and liabilities. any significant increase in these expenditures, costs or liabilities could materially adversely affect oneok partners' results of operations, financial position or cash flows, as well as its ability to pay cash distributions. 30 table of contents oneok partners does not hedge fully against commodity price changes, seasonal price differentials, product price differentials or location price differentials. this could result in decreased revenues, increased costs and lower margins, adversely affecting its results of operations. certain of oneok partners' businesses are exposed to market risk and the impact of market fluctuations of natural gas, ngls and crude oil prices. market risk refers to the risk of loss of cash flows and future earnings arising from adverse changes in commodity prices. oneok partners' primary commodity price exposures arise from: the value of the ngls and natural gas sold under pop with fee contracts, of which it retains a portion of the sales proceeds; the price differentials between the individual ngl products with respect to oneok partners' ngl transportation and fractionation agreements; the location price differentials in the price of natural gas and ngls with respect to oneok partners' natural gas and ngl transportation businesses; the seasonal price differentials of natural gas and ngls related to storage operations; and the fuel costs and the value of the retained fuel in-kind in oneok partners' natural gas pipelines and storage operations. to manage the risk from market price fluctuations of natural gas, ngls and crude oil prices, oneok partners may use derivative instruments such as swaps, futures, forwards and options. however, it does not hedge fully against commodity price changes and, therefore, it retains some exposure to market risk. accordingly, any adverse changes to commodity prices could result in decreased revenue and increased costs. oneok partners' use of financial instruments and physical forward transactions to hedge market-risk exposure to commodity price and interest-rate fluctuations may result in reduced income. oneok partners utilizes financial instruments and physical forward transactions to mitigate its exposure to interest rate and commodity price fluctuations. hedging instruments that are used to reduce oneok partners' exposure to interest-rate fluctuations could expose it to risk of financial loss where it may contract for variable-rate swap instruments to hedge fixed-rate instruments and the variable rate exceeds the fixed rate. in addition, these hedging arrangements may limit the benefit oneok partners would otherwise receive if it had contracted for fixed-rate swap agreements to hedge variable-rate instruments and the variable rate falls below the fixed rate. hedging arrangements that are used to reduce oneok partners' exposure to commodity price fluctuations limit the benefit it would otherwise receive if market prices for natural gas, crude oil and ngls exceed the stated price in the hedge instrument for these commodities. oneok partners may not be able to develop and execute growth projects and acquire new assets, which could result in reduced cash distributions to its unitholders and to oneok. oneok partners' primary business objectives are to generate cash flow sufficient to pay quarterly cash distributions to its unitholders and to increase its quarterly cash distributions over time. oneok partners' ability to maintain and grow its distributions to unitholders depends on the growth of its existing businesses and strategic acquisitions. oneok partners' ability to make strategic acquisitions and investments will depend on: the extent to which acquisitions and investment opportunities become available; oneok partners' success in bidding for the opportunities that do become available; regulatory approval, if required, of the acquisitions or investments on favorable terms; and oneok partners' access to capital, including its ability to use its equity in acquisitions or investments, and the terms upon which it obtains capital. oneok partners' ability to develop and execute growth projects will depend on its ability to implement business development opportunities and finance such activities on economically acceptable terms. if oneok partners is unable to make strategic acquisitions and investments, integrate successfully businesses that it acquires with its existing business, or develop and execute its growth projects, its future growth will be limited, which could adversely impact oneok partners' results of operations and cash flows and, accordingly, result in reduced cash distributions over time. 31 table of contents growing oneok partners' business by constructing new pipelines and plants or making modifications to its existing facilities subjects oneok partners to construction risk and supply risks should adequate natural gas or ngl supply be unavailable upon completion of the facilities. one of the ways oneok partners may grow its businesses is through the construction of new pipelines and new gathering, processing, storage and fractionation facilities and through modifications to oneok partners' existing pipelines and existing gathering, processing, storage and fractionation facilities. the construction and modification of pipelines and gathering, processing, storage and fractionation facilities may face the following risks: projects may require significant capital expenditures, which may exceed oneok partners' estimates, and involves numerous regulatory, environmental, political, legal and weather-related uncertainties; projects may increase demand for labor, materials and rights of way, which may, in turn, affect oneok partners' costs and schedule; oneok partners may be unable to obtain new rights of way to connect new natural gas or ngl supplies to its existing gathering or transportation pipelines; if oneok partners undertakes these projects, it may not be able to complete them on schedule or at the budgeted cost; oneok partners' revenues may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project. for instance, if oneok partners builds a new pipeline, the construction will occur over an extended period of time, and it will not receive any material increases in revenues until after completion of the project; oneok partners' may have only limited natural gas or ngl supply committed to these facilities prior to their construction; oneok partners may construct facilities to capture anticipated future growth in production in a region in which anticipated production growth does not materialize; oneok partners may rely on estimates of proved reserves in its decision to construct new pipelines and facilities, which may prove to be inaccurate because there are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves; and oneok partners may be required to rely on third parties downstream of its facilities to have available capacity for its delivered natural gas or ngls, which may not yet be operational. as a result, new facilities may not be able to attract enough natural gas or ngls to achieve oneok partners' expected investment return, which could affect materially and adversely oneok partners' results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. if production from the western canada sedimentary basin remains flat or declines, and demand for natural gas from the western canada sedimentary basin is greater in market areas other than the midwestern united states, demand for oneok partners' interstate gas transportation services could decrease significantly. oneok partners depends on a portion of natural gas supply from the western canada sedimentary basin for some of oneok partners' interstate pipelines, primarily viking gas transmission and oneok partners' investment in northern border pipeline, that transport canadian natural gas from the western canada sedimentary basin to the midwestern united states market area. if demand for natural gas increases in canada or other markets not served by oneok partners' interstate pipelines and/or production remains flat or declines, demand for transportation service on oneok partners' interstate natural gas pipelines could decrease significantly, which could impact adversely its and our results of operations and cash flows. oneok partners may not be able to replace, extend or add additional customer contracts or contracted volumes on favorable terms, or at all, which could affect oneok partners' financial condition, the amount of cash available to pay distributions and its ability to grow. although many of oneok partners' customers and suppliers are subject to long-term contracts, if it is unable to replace or extend such contracts, add additional customers or otherwise increase the contracted volumes of natural gas and ngls provided to it by current producers, in each case on favorable terms, if at all, oneok partners' financial condition, growth plans and the amount of cash available to pay distributions could be adversely affected. oneok partners' ability to replace, extend or add additional customer or supplier contracts, or increase contracted volumes of natural gas and ngls from current producers, on favorable terms, or at all, is subject to a number of factors, some of which are beyond oneok partners' control, including: the level of existing and new competition in oneok partners' businesses or from alternative fuel sources, such as electricity, coal, fuel oils or nuclear energy; natural gas and ngl prices, demand, availability; and 32 table of contents margins in oneok partners' markets. mergers between oneok partners' customers and competitors could result in lower volumes being gathered, processed, fractionated, transported or stored on its assets, thereby reducing the amount of cash it generates. mergers between oneok partners' existing customers and its competitors could provide strong economic incentives for the combined entities to utilize their existing gathering, processing, fractionation and/or transportation systems instead of oneok partners' in those markets where the systems compete. as a result, oneok partners could lose some or all of the volumes and associated revenues from these customers, and it could experience difficulty in replacing those lost volumes and revenues. because most of oneok partners' operating costs are fixed, a reduction in volumes could result not only in less revenue but also in a decline in cash flow, which would reduce its ability to pay cash distributions to its unitholders. oneok partners is subject to strict regulations at many of its facilities regarding employee safety, and failure to comply with these regulations could affect adversely oneok partners' business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. the workplaces associated with oneok partners' facilities are subject to the requirements of osha and comparable state statutes that regulate the protection of the health and safety of workers. the failure to comply with osha requirements or general industry standards, including keeping adequate records or occupational exposure to regulated substances could expose it to civil or criminal liability, enforcement actions, and regulatory fines and penalties and could have a material adverse effect on oneok partners' business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. oneok partners' operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions that could affect materially and adversely oneok partners' business and for which neither we nor oneok partners may be insured adequately. oneok partners' operations are subject to all of the risks and hazards typically associated with the operation of natural gas and natural gas liquids gathering, transportation and distribution pipelines, storage facilities and processing and fractionation plants. operating risks include but are not limited to leaks, pipeline ruptures, the breakdown or failure of equipment or processes, and the performance of pipeline facilities below expected levels of capacity and efficiency. other operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions include adverse weather conditions, accidents, explosions, fires, the collision of equipment with oneok partners' pipeline facilities (for example, this may occur if a third party were to perform excavation or construction work near oneok partners' facilities) and catastrophic events such as tornados, hurricanes, earthquakes, floods or other similar events beyond oneok partners' control. it is also possible that oneok partners' facilities could be direct targets or indirect casualties of an act of terrorism. a casualty occurrence might result in injury or loss of life, extensive property damage or environmental damage. liabilities incurred and interruptions to the operations of oneok partners' pipelines or other facilities caused by such an event could reduce revenues generated by oneok partners and increase expenses, thereby impairing our or oneok partners' ability to meet our respective obligations. insurance proceeds may not be adequate to cover all liabilities or expenses incurred or revenues lost, and neither we nor oneok partners are fully insured against all risks inherent in our respective businesses. as a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain insurance policies can increase substantially, and, in some instances, certain insurance may become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. consequently, neither we nor oneok partners may be able to renew existing insurance policies or purchase other desirable insurance on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. if either we or oneok partners were to incur a significant liability for which either we or oneok partners was not insured fully, it could have a material adverse effect on our or oneok partners' financial position and results of operations. further, the proceeds of any such insurance may not be paid in a timely manner and may be insufficient if such an event were to occur. oneok partners does not own all of the land on which its pipelines and facilities are located, and it leases certain facilities and equipment, which could disrupt its operations. oneok partners does not own all of the land on which certain of its pipelines and facilities are located and are, therefore, subject to the risk of increased costs to maintain necessary land use. oneok partners obtains the rights to construct and operate certain of its pipelines and related facilities on land owned by third parties and governmental agencies for a specific period of time. loss of these rights, through its inability to renew right-of-way contracts on acceptable terms or increased costs to renew such rights, could have a material adverse effect on oneok partners' financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 33 table of contents pipeline safety laws and regulations may impose significant costs and liabilities. pipeline safety legislation that was signed into law in 2012, the 2011 pipeline safety act, directed the secretary of transportation to promulgate new safety regulations for natural gas and hazardous liquids pipelines, including expanded integrity management requirements, automatic or remote-controlled valve use, excess flow valve use, leak detection system installation, testing to confirm the material strength of certain pipelines and operator verification of records confirming the maximum allowable pressure of certain gas transmission pipelines. the 2011 pipeline safety act also increased the maximum penalty for violation of pipeline safety regulations from $100,000 to $200,000 per violation per day and also from $1 million to $2 million for a related series of violations. the 2011 pipeline safety act, the pipes act or rules implementing such acts could cause oneok partners to incur capital and operating expenditures for pipeline replacements or repairs, additional monitoring equipment or more frequent inspections or testing of its pipeline facilities, preventive or mitigating measures and other tasks that could result in higher operating costs or capital expenditures as necessary to comply with such standards, which costs could be significant. see further discussion in the regulatory, environmental and safety matters section. oneok partners is subject to comprehensive energy regulation by governmental agencies, and the recovery of its costs are dependent on regulatory action. federal, state and local agencies have jurisdiction over many of oneok partners' activities, including regulation by the ferc of its interstate pipeline assets. the profitability of oneok partners' regulated operations is dependent on its ability to pass through costs related to providing energy and other commodities to its customers by filing periodic rate cases. the regulatory environment applicable to oneok partners' regulated businesses could impair its ability to recover costs historically absorbed by its customers. oneok partners is unable to predict the impact that the future regulatory activities of these agencies will have on its operating results. changes in regulations or the imposition of additional regulations could have an adverse impact on oneok partners' business, financial condition and results of operations. oneok partners' regulated pipelines' transportation rates are subject to review and possible adjustment by federal and state regulators. under the natural gas act, which is applicable to interstate natural gas pipelines, and the interstate commerce act, which is applicable to crude oil and natural gas liquids pipelines, oneok partners' interstate transportation rates, which are regulated by the ferc, must be just and reasonable and not unduly discriminatory. under current policy, the ferc permits interstate pipelines that are subject to cost of service regulation to include an income tax allowance when calculating their regulated rates. the ferc's income tax allowance policy has been the subject of challenge, and oneok partners cannot predict whether the ferc or a reviewing court will alter the existing policy. for example, on july 1, 2016, the u.s. court of appeals for the district of columbia circuit issued a decision that calls into question a decade of ferc policy and precedent permitting regulated companies organized as pass-through entities for income tax purposes to include an allowance for income taxes in their rates. the court has remanded the case to the ferc to allow it to have an opportunity to provide a reasoned basis for its decision on income tax allowances for partnership pipelines. the ferc has issued a notice of inquiry seeking comments on proposed methods to adjust ferc's income tax policy. comments are due in march 2017. if the ferc's policy were to change and if the ferc were to disallow a substantial portion of oneok partners' pipelines' income tax allowance, its regulated rates, and therefore oneok partners' revenues and ability to make quarterly cash distributions to its unitholders, could be adversely affected. if oneok partners were permitted to raise its tariff rates for a particular pipeline, there might be significant delay between the time the tariff rate increase is approved and the time that the rate increase actually goes into effect, which if delayed could further reduce oneok partners' cash flow. furthermore, competition from other pipeline systems may prevent oneok partners from raising its tariff rates even if regulatory agencies permit it to do so. the regulatory agencies that regulate oneok partners' systems periodically implement new rules, regulations and terms and conditions of services subject to their jurisdiction. new initiatives or orders may adversely affect the rates charged for oneok partners' services. finally, shippers may protest oneok partners' pipeline tariff filings, and the ferc and or state regulatory agency may investigate tariff rates. further, the ferc may order refunds of amounts collected under newly filed rates that are determined by the ferc to be in excess of a just and reasonable level. in addition, shippers may challenge by complaint the lawfulness of 34 table of contents tariff rates that have become final and effective. the ferc and/or state regulatory agencies also may investigate tariff rates absent shipper complaint. any finding that approved rates exceed a just and reasonable level on the natural gas pipelines would take effect prospectively. in a complaint proceeding challenging natural gas liquids pipeline rates, if the ferc determines existing rates exceed a just and reasonable level, it could require the payment of reparations to complaining shippers for up to two years prior to the complaint. any such action by the ferc or a comparable action by a state regulatory agency could affect adversely oneok partners' pipeline businesses' ability to charge rates that would cover future increases in costs, or even to continue to collect rates that cover current costs, and provide for a reasonable return. oneok partners' can provide no assurance that its pipeline systems will be able to recover all of its costs through existing or future rates. oneok partners' regulated pipeline companies have recorded certain assets that may not be recoverable from its customers. accounting policies for ferc-regulated companies permit certain assets that result from the regulated rate-making process to be recorded on oneok partners' balance sheet that could not be recorded under gaap for nonregulated entities. oneok partners considers factors such as regulatory changes and the impact of competition to determine the probability of future recovery of these assets. if oneok partners determines future recovery is no longer probable, oneok partners would be required to write off the regulatory assets at that time. compliance with environmental regulations that oneok partners is subject to may be difficult and costly. oneok partners is subject to multiple environmental laws and regulations affecting many aspects of present and future operations, including air emissions, water quality, wastewater discharges, solid and hazardous wastes, and hazardous material and substance management. these laws and regulations require oneok partners to obtain and comply with a wide variety of environmental registrations, licenses, permits, inspections and other approvals. failure to comply with these laws, regulations, permits and licenses may expose oneok partners to fines, penalties and/or interruptions in its operations that could be material to its results of operations. if a leak or spill of hazardous substance occurs from oneok partners' pipelines, gathering lines or facilities in the process of transporting natural gas or ngls or at any facility that oneok partners owns, operates or otherwise uses, oneok partners could be held jointly and severally liable for all resulting liabilities, including investigation and clean-up costs, which could affect materially its results of operations and cash flows. in addition, emission controls required under the federal clean air act and other similar federal and state laws could require unexpected capital expenditures at oneok partners' facilities. oneok partners cannot assure that existing environmental regulations will not be revised or that new regulations will not be adopted or become applicable to it. revised or additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, particularly if those costs are not fully recoverable from customers, could have a material adverse effect on oneok partners' business, financial condition and results of operations. oneok partners' operations are subject to federal and state laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, which may expose it to significant costs and liabilities. the risk of incurring substantial environmental costs and liabilities is inherent in oneok partners' business. oneok partners' operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into, or otherwise relating to the protection of, the environment. examples of these laws include: the clean air act and analogous state laws that impose obligations related to air emissions; the clean water act and analogous state laws that regulate discharge of waste water from oneok partners' facilities to state and federal waters; the federal cercla and analogous state laws that regulate the cleanup of hazardous substances that may have been released at properties currently or previously owned or operated by oneok partners or locations to which oneok partners has sent waste for disposal; and the federal resource conservation and recovery act and analogous state laws that impose requirements for the handling and discharge of solid and hazardous waste from oneok partners' facilities. various federal and state governmental authorities, including the epa, have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them. violators are subject to administrative, civil and criminal penalties, including civil fines, injunctions or both. joint and several, strict liability may be incurred without regard to fault under the cercla, resource conservation and recovery act and analogous state laws for the remediation of contaminated areas. there is an inherent risk of incurring environmental costs and liabilities in oneok partners' business due to its handling of the products it gathers, transports, processes and stores, air emissions related to its operations, past industry operations and waste disposal practices, some of which may be material. private parties, including the owners of properties through which oneok 35 table of contents partners' pipeline systems pass, may have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as to seek damages for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage arising from oneok partners' operations. some sites oneok partners operates are located near current or former third-party hydrocarbon storage and processing operations, and there is a risk that contamination has migrated from those sites to oneok partners' sites. in addition, increasingly strict laws, regulations and enforcement policies could increase significantly oneok partners' compliance costs and the cost of any remediation that may become necessary, some of which may be material. additional information is included under item 1, business under regulatory, environmental and safety matters and in note p of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this annual report. oneok partners' insurance may not cover all environmental risks and costs or may not provide sufficient coverage in the event an environmental claim is made against oneok partners. oneok partners' business may be affected materially and adversely by increased costs due to stricter pollution-control requirements or liabilities resulting from noncompliance with required operating or other regulatory permits. new environmental regulations might also materially and adversely affect oneok partners' products and activities, and federal and state agencies could impose additional safety requirements, all of which could affect materially oneok partners' profitability. oneok partners may face significant costs to comply with the regulation of ghg emissions. ghg emissions originate primarily from combustion engine exhaust, heater exhaust and fugitive methane gas emissions. various federal and state legislative proposals have been introduced to regulate the emission of ghgs, particularly carbon dioxide and methane, and the united states supreme court has ruled that carbon dioxide is a pollutant subject to regulation by the epa. in addition, there have been international efforts seeking legally binding reductions in emissions of ghgs. oneok partners believes it is likely that future governmental legislation and/or regulation may require it either to limit ghg emissions from its operations or to purchase allowances for such emissions that are actually attributable to its ngl customers. however, it cannot predict precisely what form these future regulations will take, the stringency of the regulations, or when they will become effective. several legislative bills have been introduced in the united states congress that would require carbon dioxide emission reductions. previously considered proposals have included, among other things, limitations on the amount of ghgs that can be emitted (so called caps ) together with systems of emissions allowances. these proposals could require oneok partners to reduce emissions, even though the technology is not currently available for efficient reduction, or to purchase allowances for such emissions. emissions also could be taxed independently of limits. in addition to activities on the federal level, state and regional initiatives could also lead to the regulation of ghg emissions sooner and/or independent of federal regulation. these regulations could be more stringent than any federal legislation that is adopted. future legislation and/or regulation designed to reduce ghg emissions could make some of its activities uneconomic to maintain or operate. further, oneok partners may not be able to pass on the higher costs to its customers or recover all costs related to complying with ghg regulatory requirements. its future results of operations, cash flows or financial condition could be adversely affected if such costs are not recovered through regulated rates or otherwise passed on to its customers. oneok partners continues to monitor legislative and regulatory developments in this area. although the regulation of ghg emissions may have a material impact on its operations and rates, oneok partners believes it is premature to attempt to quantify the potential costs of the impacts. oneok partners may be subject to physical and financial risks associated with climate change. there is a growing belief that emissions of ghgs may be linked to global climate change. climate change creates physical and financial risk. oneok partners' customers' energy needs vary with weather conditions, primarily temperature and humidity. for residential customers, heating and cooling represent their largest energy use. to the extent weather conditions may be affected by climate change, customers' energy use could increase or decrease depending on the duration and magnitude of any changes. increased energy use due to weather changes may require oneok partners to invest in more pipelines and other infrastructure to serve increased demand. a decrease in energy use due to weather changes may affect its financial condition through decreased revenues. extreme weather conditions in general require more system backup, adding to costs, and can contribute to increased system stresses, including service interruptions. weather conditions outside of oneok partners' operating territory could also have an impact on its revenues. severe weather impacts its operating territories primarily through hurricanes, thunderstorms, tornados and snow or ice storms. to the extent the frequency of extreme weather events increases, this could increase its cost of providing service. oneok partners may not be able to pass on the higher costs to its customers or recover all the costs related to mitigating these physical risks. to the extent financial markets view climate change and 36 table of contents emissions of ghgs as a financial risk, this could affect negatively its ability to access capital markets or cause oneok partners to receive less favorable terms and conditions in future financings. its business could be affected by the potential for lawsuits against ghg emitters, based on links drawn between ghg emissions and climate change. oneok partners' business is subject to regulatory oversight and potential penalties. the natural gas industry historically has been subject to heavy state and federal regulation that extends to many aspects of oneok partners' businesses and operations, including: rates, operating terms and conditions of service; the types of services oneok partners may offer it customers; construction of new facilities; the integrity, safety and security of facilities and operations; acquisition, extension or abandonment of services or facilities; reporting and information posting requirements; maintenance of accounts and records; and relationships with affiliate companies involved in all aspects of the natural gas and energy businesses. compliance with these requirements can be costly and burdensome. future changes to laws, regulations and policies in these areas may impair oneok partners' ability to compete for business or to recover costs and may increase the cost and burden of operations. oneok partners cannot guarantee that state or federal regulators will authorize any projects or acquisitions that it may propose in the future. moreover, oneok partners cannot guarantee that, if granted, any such authorizations will be made in a timely manner or will be free from potentially burdensome conditions. failure to comply with all applicable state or federal statutes, rules and regulations and orders, could bring substantial penalties and fines. for example, under the energy policy act of 2005, the ferc has civil penalty authority under the natural gas act to impose penalties for current violations of up to $1 million per day for each violation. finally, oneok partners cannot give any assurance regarding future state or federal regulations under which it will operate or the effect such regulations could have on its or our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. demand for natural gas and for certain of oneok partners' products and services is highly weather sensitive and seasonal. the demand for natural gas and for certain of oneok partners' businesses' ngl products, such as propane, is weather sensitive and seasonal, with a portion of revenues derived from sales for heating during the winter months. weather conditions influence directly the volume of, among other things, natural gas and propane delivered to customers. deviations in weather from normal levels and the seasonal nature of certain of oneok partners' businesses can create variations in earnings and short-term cash requirements. energy efficiency and technological advances may affect the demand for natural gas and affect adversely oneok partners' operating results. more strict local, state and federal energy-conservation measures in the future or technological advances in heating, including installation of improved insulation and the development of more efficient furnaces, energy generation or other devices could affect the demand for natural gas and adversely affect oneok partners' and our results of operations and cash flows. in the competition for customers, oneok partners may have significant levels of excess capacity on its natural gas and natural gas liquids pipelines, processing, fractionation and storage assets. oneok partners' natural gas and natural gas liquids pipelines, processing, fractionation and storage assets compete with other pipelines, processing, fractionation and storage facilities for natural gas and ngl supplies delivered to the markets it serves. as a result of competition, at any given time oneok partners may have significant levels of uncontracted or discounted capacity on its pipelines, processing, fractionation and in its storage assets, which could have a material adverse impact on oneok partners' or our results of operations and cash flows. 37 table of contents any reduction in oneok partners' credit ratings could affect materially and adversely its business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. oneok partners' senior unsecured long-term debt and commercial paper program have been assigned an investment-grade credit rating of baa2 and prime-2, respectively, by moody's and bbb and a-2, respectively, by s&amp;p. in february 2017, in conjunction with the announcement of the merger transaction with oneok partners described in note b of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this annual report, s&amp;p affirmed oneok partners' ratings and outlook and moody's placed oneok partners' credit ratings under review for a downgrade. we cannot provide assurance that any of its current ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances in the future so warrant. specifically, if moody's or s&amp;p were to downgrade oneok partners' long-term debt or commercial paper rating, particularly below investment grade, its borrowing costs would increase, which would affect adversely its financial results, and its potential pool of investors and funding sources could decrease. ratings from credit agencies are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold oneok partners' securities. each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. an event of default may require oneok partners to offer to repurchase certain of its senior notes or may impair its ability to access capital. the indentures governing oneok partners' senior notes include an event of default upon the acceleration of other indebtedness of $100 million or more. such events of default would entitle the trustee or the holders of 25 percent in aggregate principal amount of oneok partners' outstanding senior notes to declare those senior notes immediately due and payable in full. oneok partners may not have sufficient cash on hand to repurchase and repay any accelerated senior notes, which may cause oneok partners to borrow money under its credit facilities or seek alternative financing sources to finance the repurchases and repayment. oneok partners could also face difficulties accessing capital or its borrowing costs could increase, impacting its ability to obtain financing for acquisitions or capital expenditures, to refinance indebtedness and to fulfill its debt obligations. oneok partners' indebtedness could impair its financial condition and ability to fulfill its obligations. as of december 31, 2016 , oneok partners had total indebtedness of approximately $7.9 billion . its indebtedness could have significant consequences. for example, it could: make it more difficult to satisfy its obligations with respect to its senior notes and other indebtedness, which could in turn result in an event of default on such other indebtedness or its senior notes; impair its ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general business purposes; diminish its ability to withstand a downturn in its business or the economy; require it to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to debt-service payments, thereby reducing the availability of cash for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, distributions to partners and general partnership purposes; limit its flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in its business and the industry in which it operates; and place it at a competitive disadvantage compared with its competitors that have proportionately less debt. oneok partners is not prohibited under the indentures governing its senior notes from incurring additional indebtedness, but its debt agreements do subject it to certain operational limitations summarized in the next paragraph. oneok partners' incurrence of significant additional indebtedness would exacerbate the negative consequences mentioned above and could affect adversely its ability to repay its senior notes and other indebtedness. oneok partners' debt agreements contain provisions that restrict its ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to expand or pursue its business activities. for example, certain of these agreements contain provisions that, among other things, limit its ability to make loans or investments, make material changes to the nature of its business, merge, consolidate or engage in asset sales, grant liens or make negative pledges. certain agreements also require it to maintain certain financial ratios, which limit the amount of additional indebtedness it can incur. for example, the oneok partners credit agreement contains a financial covenant requiring it to maintain a ratio of indebtedness to adjusted ebitda (ebitda, as defined in the oneok partners credit agreement, adjusted for all noncash charges and increased for projected ebitda from certain lender-approved capital expansion projects) of no more than 5.0 to 1. if oneok partners consummates one or more acquisitions in which the aggregate purchase price is $25 million or more, the allowable ratio of indebtedness to adjusted ebitda will increase to 5.5 to 1 for the quarter in which the acquisition was completed and the two following quarters. 38 table of contents these restrictions could result in higher costs of borrowing and impair oneok partners' ability to generate additional cash. future financing agreements oneok partners may enter into may contain similar or more restrictive covenants. if oneok partners is unable to meet its debt-service obligations, it could be forced to restructure or refinance its indebtedness, seek additional equity capital or sell assets. it may be unable to obtain financing, raise equity or sell assets on satisfactory terms, or at all. borrowings under the oneok partners credit agreement and its senior notes are nonrecourse to oneok, and oneok does not guarantee the debt, commercial paper or other similar commitments of oneok partners. following the completion of the merger transaction, we and oneok partners expect to enter into a cross guarantee agreement whereby each party to the agreement unconditionally guarantees and becomes liable for the indebtedness of each other party to the agreement. oneok partners has adopted certain valuation methodologies in determining a unitholder's allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction. the irs may challenge these methodologies or the resulting allocations, and such a challenge could affect adversely the value of oneok partners' common units. when oneok partners issues additional units or engages in certain other transactions, oneok partners determines the fair market value of its assets and allocates any unrealized gain or loss attributable to its assets to the capital accounts of its unitholders and its general partner. oneok partners' methodology may be viewed as understating the value of its assets. in that case, there may be a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between certain unitholders and the general partner, which may be unfavorable to such unitholders. moreover, under oneok partners' current valuation methods, subsequent purchasers of common units may have a greater portion of their internal revenue code section 743(b) adjustment allocated to oneok partners' tangible assets and a lesser portion allocated to oneok partners' intangible assets. the irs may challenge oneok partners' valuation methods or oneok partners' allocation of the section 743(b) adjustment attributable to oneok partners' tangible and intangible assets, and allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction between the general partner and certain of oneok partners' unitholders. a successful irs challenge to these methods or allocations could affect adversely the amount, character and timing of taxable income or loss being allocated to oneok partners' unitholders. it also could affect the amount of gain from oneok partners unitholders' sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to oneok partners unitholders' tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions. oneok partners' treatment of a purchaser of common units as having the same tax benefits as the seller could be challenged, resulting in a reduction in value of the common units. because oneok partners cannot match transferors and transferees of common units, oneok partners is required to maintain the uniformity of the economic and tax characteristics of these units in the hands of the purchasers and sellers of these units. oneok partners does so by adopting certain depreciation conventions that do not conform to all aspects of existing united states treasury regulations. a successful irs challenge to these conventions could affect adversely the tax benefits to a unitholder of ownership of the common units and could have a negative impact on their value or result in audit adjustments to oneok partners unitholders' tax returns. increased regulation of exploration and production activities, including hydraulic fracturing and disposal of waste water, could result in reductions or delays in drilling and completing new oil and natural gas wells, which could impact adversely oneok partners' revenues by decreasing the volumes of unprocessed natural gas and ngls transported on its or its joint ventures' natural gas and natural gas liquids pipelines. the natural gas industry is relying increasingly on natural gas supplies from nonconventional sources, such as shale and tight sands. natural gas extracted from these sources frequently requires hydraulic fracturing, which involves the pressurized injection of water, sand, and chemicals into the geologic formation to stimulate natural gas production. recently, there have been initiatives at the federal and state levels to regulate or otherwise restrict the use of hydraulic fracturing or the disposal of waste water used in the hydraulic fracturing process, and several states have adopted regulations that impose more stringent permitting, disclosure and well-completion requirements on hydraulic fracturing operations. legislation or regulations placing restrictions on hydraulic fracturing activities, including waste-water disposal, could impose operational delays, increased operating costs and additional regulatory burdens on exploration and production operators, which could reduce their production of unprocessed natural gas and, in turn, adversely affect oneok partners' revenues and results of operations by decreasing the volumes of unprocessed natural gas and ngls gathered, treated, processed, fractionated and transported on oneok partners' or its joint ventures' natural gas and natural gas liquids pipelines, several of which gather unprocessed natural gas and ngls from areas where the use of hydraulic fracturing is prevalent. 39 table of contents continued development of new supply sources could impact demand. the discovery of nonconventional natural gas production areas nearer to certain market areas that oneok partners serves may compete with natural gas originating in production areas connected to oneok partners' systems. for example, the marcellus shale in pennsylvania, new york, west virginia and ohio may cause natural gas in supply areas connected to oneok partners' systems to be diverted to markets other than its traditional market areas and may affect capacity utilization adversely on oneok partners' pipeline systems and oneok partners' ability to renew or replace existing contracts at rates sufficient to maintain current revenues and cash flows. in addition, supply volumes from these nonconventional natural gas production areas may compete with and displace volumes from the mid-continent, permian, rocky mountains and canadian supply sources in certain of oneok partners' markets. in the natural gas gathering and processing segment, the development of these new nonconventional reserves could move drilling rigs from oneok partners' current service areas to other areas, which may reduce demand for oneok partners' services. in the natural gas pipelines segment, the displacement of natural gas originating in supply areas connected to oneok partners' pipeline systems by these new supply sources that are closer to the end-use markets could result in lower transportation revenues, which could have a material adverse impact on oneok partners' business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. a court may use fraudulent conveyance considerations to avoid or subordinate the intermediate partnership's guarantee of certain of oneok partners' senior notes. various applicable fraudulent conveyance laws have been enacted for the protection of creditors. a court may use fraudulent conveyance laws to subordinate or avoid the guarantee of certain of oneok partners' senior notes issued the intermediate partnership. it is also possible that under certain circumstances, a court could hold that the direct obligations of the intermediate partnership could be superior to the obligations under that guarantee. a court could avoid or subordinate the intermediate partnership's guarantee of certain of oneok partners' senior notes in favor of the intermediate partnership's other debts or liabilities to the extent that the court determined either of the following were true at the time the intermediate partnership issued the guarantee: the intermediate partnership incurred the guarantee with the intent to hinder, delay or defraud any of its present or future creditors or the intermediate partnership contemplated insolvency with a design to favor one or more creditors to the total or partial exclusion of others; or the intermediate partnership did not receive fair consideration or reasonable equivalent value for issuing the guarantee and, at the time it issued the guarantee, the intermediate partnership: was insolvent or rendered insolvent by reason of the issuance of the guarantee; was engaged or about to engage in a business or transaction for which its remaining assets constituted unreasonably small capital; or intended to incur, or believed that it would incur, debts beyond its ability to pay such debts as they matured. the measure of insolvency for purposes of the foregoing will vary depending upon the law of the relevant jurisdiction. generally, however, an entity would be considered insolvent for purposes of the foregoing if: the sum of its debts, including contingent liabilities, were greater than the fair saleable value of all of its assets at a fair valuation; the present fair saleable value of its assets was less than the amount that would be required to pay its probable liability on its existing debts, including contingent liabilities, as they become absolute and mature; or it could not pay its debts as they become due. among other things, a legal challenge of the intermediate partnership's guarantee of certain of oneok partners' senior notes on fraudulent conveyance grounds may focus on the benefits, if any, realized by the intermediate partnership as a result of oneok partners' issuance of such senior notes. to the extent the intermediate partnership's guarantee of certain of oneok partners' senior notes is avoided as a result of fraudulent conveyance or held unenforceable for any other reason, the holders of such senior notes would cease to have any claim in respect of the guarantee. oneok partners may be unable to cause its joint ventures to take or not to take certain actions unless some or all of its joint-venture participants agree. oneok partners participates in several joint ventures. due to the nature of some of these arrangements, each participant in these joint ventures has made substantial investments in the joint venture and, accordingly, has required that the relevant charter documents contain certain features designed to provide each participant with the opportunity to participate in the management 40 table of contents of the joint venture and to protect its investment, as well as any other assets that may be substantially dependent on or otherwise affected by the activities of that joint venture. these participation and protective features customarily include a corporate governance structure that requires at least a majority-in-interest vote to authorize many basic activities and requires a greater voting interest (sometimes up to 100 percent) to authorize more significant activities. examples of these more significant activities are large expenditures or contractual commitments, the construction or acquisition of assets, borrowing money or otherwise raising capital, transactions with affiliates of a joint-venture participant, litigation and transactions not in the ordinary course of business, among others. thus, without the concurrence of joint-venture participants with enough voting interests, oneok partners may be unable to cause any of its joint ventures to take or not to take certain actions, even though those actions may be in the best interest of oneok partners or the particular joint venture. moreover, any joint-venture owner generally may sell, transfer or otherwise modify its ownership interest in a joint venture, whether in a transaction involving third parties or the other joint-venture owners. any such transaction could result in oneok partners being required to partner with different or additional parties. oneok partners' operating cash flow is derived partially from cash distributions it receives from its unconsolidated affiliates. oneok partners' operating cash flow is derived partially from cash distributions it receives from its unconsolidated affiliates, as discussed in note n of the notes to consolidated financial statements. the amount of cash that oneok partners' unconsolidated affiliates can distribute principally depends upon the amount of cash flow these affiliates generate from their respective operations, which may fluctuate from quarter to quarter. oneok partners does not have any direct control over the cash distribution policies of its unconsolidated affiliates. this lack of control may contribute to oneok partners' not having sufficient available cash each quarter to continue paying distributions at its current levels. additionally, the amount of cash that oneok partners has available for cash distribution depends primarily upon its cash flow, including cash flow from financial reserves and working capital borrowings, and is not solely a function of profitability, which will be affected by noncash items such as depreciation, amortization and provisions for asset impairments. as a result, oneok partners may be able to make cash distributions during periods when it records losses and may not be able to make cash distributions during periods when it records net income. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 69 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our exposure to market risk discussed below includes forward-looking statements and represents an estimate of possible changes in future earnings that could occur assuming hypothetical future movements in interest rates or commodity prices. our views on market risk are not necessarily indicative of actual results that may occur and do not represent the maximum possible gains and losses that may occur since actual gains and losses will differ from those estimated based on actual fluctuations in interest rates or commodity prices and the timing of transactions. we are exposed to market risk due to commodity price and interest-rate volatility. market risk is the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices. we may use financial instruments, including forward sales, swaps, options and futures, to manage the risks of certain identifiable or anticipated transactions and achieve a more predictable cash flow. our risk-management function follows established policies and procedures to monitor oneok partners' natural gas, condensate and ngl marketing activities and our and oneok partners' interest rates to ensure our hedging activities mitigate market risks. neither we nor oneok partners use financial instruments for trading purposes. we record derivative instruments at fair value. we estimate the fair value of derivative instruments using available market information and appropriate valuation techniques. changes in derivative instruments' fair values are recognized in earnings unless the instrument qualifies as a hedge and meets specific hedge accounting criteria. the effective portion of qualifying derivative instruments' gains and losses may offset the hedged items' related results in earnings for a fair value hedge or be deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) for a cash flow hedge. commodity price risk as part of its hedging strategy, oneok partners uses commodity derivative financial instruments and physical-forward contracts described in note d of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this annual report to minimize the impact of near-term price fluctuations related to natural gas, ngls and condensate. oneok partners is exposed to basis risk between the various production and market locations where it receives and sells commodities. although oneok partners' businesses are predominately fee-based, in the natural gas gathering and processing segment, oneok partners is exposed to commodity price risk as a result of retaining a portion of the commodity sales proceeds associated with its pop with fee contracts. oneok partners has restructured a portion of its pop with fee contracts to include significantly higher fees, which reduces its equity volumes and the related commodity price exposure. however, under certain pop with fee contracts, oneok partners' fee revenues may increase or decrease if production volumes, delivery pressures or commodity prices change relative to specified thresholds. the following tables set forth hedging information for the natural gas gathering and processing segment's forecasted equity volumes for the periods indicated: year ending december 31, 2017 volumes hedged average price percentage hedged ngls - excluding ethane ( mbbl/d ) - conway/mont belvieu 8.0 $ 0.51 / gallon 91% condensate ( mbbl/d ) - wti-nymex 1.8 $ 44.88 / bbl 72% natural gas ( bbtu/d ) - nymex and basis 73.1 $ 2.63 / mmbtu 97% 69 table of contents year ending december 31, 2018 volumes hedged average price percentage hedged ngls - excluding ethane ( mbbl/d ) - conway/mont belvieu 1.9 $ 0.68 / gallon 22% condensate ( mbbl/d ) - wti-nymex 0.6 $ 56.80 / bbl 25% natural gas ( bbtu/d ) - nymex and basis 49.7 $ 2.80 / mmbtu 74% the natural gas gathering and processing segment's commodity price sensitivity is estimated as a hypothetical change in the price of ngls, crude oil and natural gas at december 31, 2016 . condensate sales are typically based on the price of crude oil. we estimate the following for oneok partners' forecasted equity volumes, including the effects of hedging information set forth above, and assuming normal operating conditions, for the year ending december 31, 2017: a $0.01 per-gallon change in the composite price of ngls would change 12-month adjusted ebitda for the year ending december 31, 2017, by approximately $0.4 million ; a $1.00 per-barrel change in the price of crude oil would change 12-month adjusted ebitda for the year ending december 31, 2017, by approximately $0.4 million ; and a $0.10 per-mmbtu change in the price of residue natural gas would change 12-month adjusted ebitda for the year ending december 31, 2017, by approximately $0.1 million . these estimates do not include any effects on demand for oneok partners' services or natural gas processing plant operations that might be caused by, or arise in conjunction with, commodity price fluctuations. for example, a change in the gross processing spread may cause a change in the amount of ethane extracted from the natural gas stream, impacting gathering and processing financial results for certain contracts. the following tables set forth hedging information related to purchased put options to reduce commodity price sensitivity associated with certain pop with fee contracts: year ending december 31, 2017 volumes hedged average strike price fair value asset at december 31, 2016 ( millions of dollars ) natural gas ( bbtu/d ) - nymex 147.9 $ 2.47 / mmbtu $ 1.0 see note d of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this annual report for more information on oneok partners' hedging activities. interest-rate risk we and oneok partners are exposed to interest-rate risk through the oneok credit agreement, the oneok partners credit agreement, oneok partners' commercial paper program, term loan agreement and long-term debt issuances. future increases in libor, corporate commercial paper rates or investment-grade corporate bond rates could expose us to increased interest costs on future borrowings. we manage interest-rate risk through the use of fixed-rate debt, floating-rate debt and interest-rate swaps. interest-rate swaps are agreements to exchange interest payments at some future point based on specified notional amounts. in january 2016, oneok partners entered into interest-rate swaps with notional amounts totaling $1 billion to hedge the variability of its libor-based interest payments, all of which were active swaps as of december 31, 2016. in addition, in june 2016, oneok partners entered into forward-starting interest-rate swaps with notional amounts totaling $750 million to hedge the variability of interest payments on a portion of its forecasted debt issuances that may result from changes in the benchmark interest rate before the debt is issued, resulting in total notional amounts of this type of interest-rate swap of $1.2 billion at december 31, 2016 , compared with $400 million at december 31, 2015. all of oneok partners' interest-rate swaps are designated as cash flow hedges. at december 31, 2016 , oneok partners had derivative assets of $47.5 million and derivative liabilities of $12.8 million related to these interest-rate swaps. at december 31, 2015 , oneok partners had derivative liabilities of $9.9 million related to these interest-rate swaps. see note d of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this annual report for more information on oneok partners' hedging activities. 70 table of contents counterparty credit risk oneok and oneok partners assess the creditworthiness of their counterparties on an ongoing basis and require security, including prepayments and other forms of collateral, when appropriate. certain of oneok partners' counterparties to the natural gas gathering and processing segment's natural gas sales, the natural gas liquids segment's marketing activities and the natural gas pipelines segment's storage activities may be impacted by the low commodity price environment and could experience financial problems, which could result in nonpayment and/or nonperformance, which could adversely impact our results of operations. customer concentration - in 2016, no single customer represented more than 10 percent of our consolidated revenues and only 26 customers individually represented one percent or more of our consolidated revenues, the majority of which are investment-grade customers, as rated by s&amp;p, moody's or our comparable internal ratings, or secured by letters of credit or other collateral. natural gas gathering and processing - the natural gas gathering and processing segment's customers are primarily crude oil and natural gas producers, which include both large integrated and independent exploration and production companies. oneok partners is not typically exposed to material credit risk with exploration and production customers under pop with fee contracts as oneok partners sells the commodities and remits a portion of the sales proceeds back to the producer customer. in 2016 and 2015, approximately 99 percent of the downstream commodity sales in the natural gas gathering and processing segment were made to investment-grade customers, as rated by s&amp;p, moody's or our comparable internal ratings, or were secured by letters of credit or other collateral. natural gas liquids - the natural gas liquids segment's customers are primarily ngl and natural gas gathering and processing companies; large and independent crude oil and natural gas production companies; propane distributors; ethanol producers; and petrochemical, refining and ngl marketing companies. oneok partners earns fee-based revenue from ngl and natural gas gathering and processing customers and natural gas liquids pipeline transportation customers. oneok partners is not typically exposed to material credit risk on the majority of its exchange services fee revenues, as oneok partners purchases ngls from its gathering and processing customers and deducts fees from the amounts it remits. oneok partners also earns sales revenue on the downstream sales of ngl products. in 2016 and 2015, approximately 80 percent of this segment's commodity sales were made to investment-grade customers, as rated by s&amp;p, moody's or our comparable internal ratings, or were secured by letters of credit or other collateral. in addition, the majority of the natural gas liquids segment's pipeline tariffs provide oneok partners the ability to require security from shippers. natural gas pipelines - the natural gas pipelines segment's customers are primarily local natural gas distribution companies, electric-generation facilities, large industrial companies, municipalities, irrigation customers and marketing companies. in 2016 and 2015, approximately 85 percent of the revenues in this segment were from investment-grade customers, as rated by s&amp;p, moody's or our comparable internal ratings, or were secured by letters of credit or other collateral. in addition, the majority of the natural gas pipelines segment's pipeline tariffs provide oneok partners the ability to require security from shippers. 71 table of contents this page intentionally left blank. 72 table of contentsrisk factors 21 risk factors our investors should consider the following risks that could affect us and our business. although we have tried to identify key factors, our investors need to be aware that other risks may prove to be important in the future. new risks may emerge at any time, and we cannot predict such risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect our financial performance. investors should consider carefully the following discussion of risks and the other information included or incorporated by reference in this annual report, including forward-looking statements, which are included in part ii, item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. risks inherent in our business if the level of drilling in the regions in which we operate declines substantially near our assets, our volumes and revenues could decline. our gathering and transportation pipeline systems are connected to, and dependent on the level of production from, natural gas and crude oil wells, from which production will naturally decline over time. as a result, our cash flows associated with these wells will also decline over time. in order to maintain or increase throughput levels on our gathering and transportation pipeline systems and the asset utilization rates at our processing and fractionation plants, we must continually obtain new supplies. our ability to maintain or expand our businesses depends largely on the level of drilling and production by third parties in the regions in which we operate. our natural gas and ngl supply volumes may be impacted if producers curtail or redirect drilling and production activities. drilling and production are impacted by factors beyond our control, including: demand and prices for natural gas, ngls and crude oil; producers' access to capital; producers' finding and development costs of reserves; producers' desire and ability to obtain necessary permits in a timely and economic manner; natural gas field characteristics and production performance; surface access and infrastructure issues; and capacity constraints on natural gas, crude oil and natural gas liquids infrastructure from the producing areas and our facilities. commodity prices have experienced significant volatility. drilling and production activity levels may vary across our geographic areas; however, a prolonged period of low commodity prices may reduce drilling and production activities across all areas. if we are not able to obtain new supplies to replace the natural decline in volumes from existing wells or because of competition, throughput on our gathering and transportation pipeline systems and the utilization rates of our processing and fractionation facilities would decline, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows, and our ability to pay cash dividends. continued development of new supply sources could impact demand for our services. the discovery of nonconventional natural gas production areas near certain market areas that we serve may compete with natural gas originating in production areas connected to our systems. for example, the marcellus shale in pennsylvania, new york, west virginia and ohio may cause natural gas in supply areas connected to our systems to be diverted to markets other than our traditional market areas and may affect capacity utilization adversely on our pipeline systems and our ability to renew or replace existing contracts at rates sufficient to maintain current revenues and cash flows. in addition, supply volumes from these nonconventional natural gas production areas may compete with and displace volumes from the mid-continent, permian, rocky mountains and canadian supply sources in certain of our markets. in our natural gas gathering and processing segment, the development of these new nonconventional reserves could move drilling rigs from our current service areas to other areas, which may reduce demand for our services. in our natural gas pipelines segment, the displacement of natural gas originating in supply areas connected to our pipeline systems by these new supply sources that are closer to the end-use markets could result in lower transportation revenues, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 21 table of contents the volatility of natural gas, crude oil and ngl prices could affect adversely our earnings and cash flows. a significant portion of our revenues are derived from the sale of commodities that are received in conjunction with natural gas gathering and processing services, the transportation and storage of natural gas, and from the purchase and sale of ngls and ngl products. commodity prices have been volatile and are likely to continue to be so in the future. the prices we receive for our commodities are subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors beyond our control, including, but not limited to, the following: overall domestic and global economic conditions; relatively minor changes in the supply of, and demand for, domestic and foreign energy; market uncertainty; the availability and cost of third-party transportation, natural gas processing and fractionation capacity; the level of consumer product demand and storage inventory levels; ethane rejection; geopolitical conditions impacting supply and demand for natural gas, ngls and crude oil; weather conditions; domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; the price and availability of alternative fuels; speculation in the commodity futures markets; the effects of imports and exports on the price of natural gas, crude oil, ngl and liquefied natural gas; the effect of worldwide energy-conservation measures; the impact of new supplies, new pipelines, processing and fractionation facilities on location price differentials; and technology and improved efficiency impacting supply and demand for natural gas, ngls and crude oil. these external factors and the volatile nature of the energy markets make it difficult to reliably estimate future prices of commodities and the impact commodity price fluctuations have on our customers and their need for our services, which could have a material adverse effect on our earnings and cash flows. as commodity prices decline, we could be paid less for our commodities, thereby reducing our cash flows. in addition, crude oil, natural gas and ngl production could also decline due to lower prices. market volatility and capital availability could affect adversely our business. the capital and global credit markets have experienced volatility and disruption in the past. in many cases during these periods, the capital markets have exerted downward pressure on equity values and reduced the credit capacity for certain companies. much of our business is capital intensive, and our ability to grow is dependent, in part, upon our ability to access capital at rates and on terms we determine to be attractive. similar or more severe levels of global market disruption and volatility may have an adverse effect on us resulting from, but not limited to, disruption of our access to capital and credit markets, difficulty in obtaining financing necessary to expand facilities or acquire assets, increased financing costs and increasingly restrictive covenants. if we are unable to access capital at competitive rates, our strategy of enhancing the earnings potential of our existing assets, including through capital-growth projects and acquisitions of complementary assets or businesses, may be affected adversely. a number of factors could affect adversely our ability to access capital, including: (i) general economic conditions; (ii) capital market conditions; (iii) market prices for natural gas, ngls and other hydrocarbons; (iv) the overall health of the energy and related industries; (v) ability to maintain investment-grade credit ratings; (vi) share price and (vii) capital structure. if our ability to access capital becomes constrained significantly, our interest costs and cost of equity will likely increase and could affect adversely our financial condition and future results of operations. our operating results may be affected materially and adversely by unfavorable economic and market conditions. economic conditions worldwide have from time to time contributed to slowdowns in the crude oil and natural gas industry, as well as in the specific segments and markets in which we operate, resulting in reduced demand and increased price competition for our products and services. our operating results in one or more geographic regions may also be affected by uncertain or changing economic conditions within that region. volatility in commodity prices may have an impact on many of our customers, which, in turn, could have a negative impact on their ability to meet their obligations to us. if global economic and market conditions (including volatility in commodity markets) or economic conditions in the united states or other key markets remain uncertain or persist, spread or deteriorate further, we may experience material impacts on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. 22 table of contents increased competition could have a significant adverse financial impact on our business. the natural gas and natural gas liquids industries are expected to remain highly competitive. the demand for natural gas and ngls is primarily a function of commodity prices, including prices for alternative energy sources, customer usage rates, weather, economic conditions and service costs. our ability to compete also depends on a number of other factors, including competition from other companies for our existing customers; the efficiency, quality and reliability of the services we provide; and competition for throughput at our gathering systems, pipelines, processing plants, fractionators and storage facilities. increased regulation of exploration and production activities, including hydraulic fracturing and disposal of waste water, could result in reductions or delays in drilling and completing new crude oil and natural gas wells, which could impact adversely our earnings by decreasing the volumes of natural gas and ngls transported on our or our joint ventures' natural gas and natural gas liquids pipelines. the natural gas industry is relying increasingly on natural gas supplies from nonconventional sources, such as shale and tight sands. natural gas extracted from these sources frequently requires hydraulic fracturing, which involves the pressurized injection of water, sand and chemicals into a geologic formation to stimulate natural gas production. legislation or regulations placing restrictions on hydraulic fracturing activities, including waste-water disposal, could impose operational delays, increased operating costs and additional regulatory burdens on exploration and production operators, which could reduce their production of unprocessed natural gas and, in turn, affect adversely our revenues and results of operations by decreasing the volumes of unprocessed natural gas and ngls gathered, treated, processed, fractionated and transported on our or our joint ventures' natural gas and natural gas liquids pipelines, several of which gather unprocessed natural gas from areas where the use of hydraulic fracturing is prevalent. in the competition for supply, we may have significant levels of excess capacity on our natural gas and natural gas liquids pipelines, processing, fractionation and storage assets. our natural gas and natural gas liquids pipelines, processing, fractionation and storage assets compete with other pipelines, processing, fractionation and storage facilities for natural gas and ngl supply delivered to the markets we serve. as a result of competition, we may have significant levels of uncontracted or discounted capacity on our pipelines, processing, fractionation and in our storage assets, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows. we may not be able to replace, extend or add additional contracted volumes on favorable terms, or at all, which could affect our financial condition, the amount of cash available to pay dividends and our ability to grow. although many of our customers and suppliers are subject to long-term contracts, if we are unable to replace or extend such contracts, add additional customers and suppliers or otherwise increase the contracted volumes of natural gas and ngls provided to us by current producers, in each case on favorable terms, if at all, our financial condition, growth plans and the amount of cash available to pay dividends could be affected adversely. our ability to replace, extend or add additional customer or supplier contracts, or increase contracted volumes of natural gas and ngls from current producers, on favorable terms, or at all, is subject to a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: the level of existing and new competition in our businesses or from alternative fuel sources, such as electricity, coal, fuel oils or nuclear energy; natural gas and ngl prices, demand, availability; and margins in our markets. we may face opposition to the construction or operation of our pipelines and facilities from various groups. we may face opposition to the construction or operation of our pipelines and facilities from environmental groups, landowners, tribal groups, local groups and other advocates. such opposition could take many forms, including organized protests, attempts to block or sabotage our construction activities or operations, intervention in regulatory or administrative proceedings involving our assets, or lawsuits or other actions designed to prevent, disrupt or delay the construction or operation of our assets and business. for example, repairing our pipelines often involves securing consent from individual landowners to access their property; one or more landowners may resist our efforts to make needed repairs, which could lead to an interruption in the operation of the affected pipeline or facility for a period of time that is significantly longer than would have otherwise been the case. in addition, acts of sabotage or terrorism could cause significant damage or injury to people, property or the environment or lead to extended interruptions of our operations. any such event that delays or interrupts the construction of assets or 23 table of contents revenues generated by our existing operations, or which causes us to make significant expenditures not covered by insurance, could affect adversely our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and our share price. growing our business by constructing new pipelines and plants or making modifications to our existing facilities subjects us to construction risk and supply risks, should adequate natural gas or ngl supply be unavailable upon completion of the facilities. one of the ways we may grow our businesses is through the construction of new pipelines and new gathering, processing, storage and fractionation facilities and through modifications to our existing pipelines and existing gathering, processing, storage and fractionation facilities. the construction and modification of pipelines and gathering, processing, storage and fractionation facilities may face the following risks: projects may require significant capital expenditures, which may exceed our estimates, and involves numerous regulatory, environmental, political, legal and weather-related uncertainties; projects may increase demand for labor, materials and rights of way, which may, in turn, affect our costs and schedule; we may be unable to obtain new rights of way to connect new natural gas or ngl supplies to our existing gathering or transportation pipelines; if we undertake these projects, we may not be able to complete them on schedule or at the budgeted cost; our revenues may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project. for instance, if we build a new pipeline, the construction will occur over an extended period of time, and we will not receive any material increases in revenues until after completion of the project; we may have only limited natural gas or ngl supply committed to these facilities prior to their construction; we may construct facilities to capture anticipated future growth in production in a region in which anticipated production growth does not materialize; we may rely on estimates of proved reserves in our decision to construct new pipelines and facilities, which may prove to be inaccurate because there are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves; and we may be required to rely on third parties downstream of our facilities to have available capacity for our delivered natural gas or ngls, which may not yet be operational. as a result, new facilities may not be able to attract enough natural gas or ngls to achieve our expected investment return, which could affect materially and adversely our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. our operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions, which could affect materially and adversely our business and for which we may not be adequately insured. our operations are subject to all of the risks and hazards typically associated with the operation of natural gas and natural gas liquids gathering, transportation and distribution pipelines, storage facilities and processing and fractionation plants. operating risks include, but are not limited to, leaks, pipeline ruptures, the breakdown or failure of equipment or processes and the performance of pipeline facilities below expected levels of capacity and efficiency. other operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions include adverse weather conditions, accidents, explosions, fires, the collision of equipment with our pipeline facilities (for example, this may occur if a third party were to perform excavation or construction work near our facilities) and catastrophic events such as tornados, hurricanes, earthquakes, floods or other similar events beyond our control. it is also possible that our facilities could be direct targets or indirect casualties of an act of terrorism. a casualty occurrence might result in injury or loss of life, extensive property damage or environmental damage. liabilities incurred and interruptions to the operations of our pipeline or other facilities caused by such an event could reduce revenues generated by us and increase expenses, thereby impairing our ability to meet our obligations. insurance proceeds may not be adequate to cover all liabilities or expenses incurred or revenues lost, and we are not fully insured against all risks inherent to our business. as a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain insurance policies can increase substantially, and, in some instances, certain insurance may become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. consequently, we may not be able to renew existing insurance policies or purchase other desirable insurance on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. if we were to incur a significant liability for which we were not fully insured, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, cash flows and results of operations. further, the proceeds of any such insurance may not be paid in a timely manner and may be insufficient if such an event were to occur. 24 table of contents we may not be able to develop and execute growth projects and acquire new assets, which could result in reduced dividends to our shareholders. our ability to maintain and grow our dividends paid to our shareholders depends on the growth of our existing businesses and strategic acquisitions. our ability to make strategic acquisitions and investments will depend on: the extent to which acquisitions and investment opportunities become available; our success in bidding for the opportunities that do become available; regulatory approval, if required, of the acquisitions or investments on favorable terms; and our access to capital, including our ability to use our equity in acquisitions or investments, and the terms upon which we obtain capital. our ability to develop and execute growth projects will depend on our ability to implement business development opportunities and finance such activities on economically acceptable terms. if we are unable to make strategic acquisitions and investments, integrate successfully businesses that we acquire with our existing business, or develop and execute our growth projects, our future growth will be limited, which could impact adversely our results of operations and cash flows and, accordingly, result in reduced cash dividends over time. acquisitions that appear to be accretive may nevertheless reduce our cash from operations on a per-share basis. any acquisition involves potential risks that may include, among other things: inaccurate assumptions about volumes, revenues and costs, including potential synergies; an inability to integrate successfully the businesses we acquire; decrease in our liquidity as a result of our using a significant portion of our available cash or borrowing capacity to finance the acquisition; a significant increase in our interest expense and/or financial leverage if we incur additional debt to finance the acquisition; the assumption of unknown liabilities for which we are not indemnified, our indemnity is inadequate or our insurance policies may exclude from coverage; an inability to hire, train or retain qualified personnel to manage and operate the acquired business and assets; limitations on rights to indemnity from the seller; inaccurate assumptions about the overall costs of equity or debt; the diversion of management's and employees' attention from other business concerns; unforeseen difficulties operating in new product areas or new geographic areas; increased regulatory burdens; customer or key employee losses at an acquired business; and increased regulatory requirements. if we consummate any future acquisitions, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly, and investors will not have the opportunity to evaluate the economic, financial and other relevant information that we will consider in determining the application of our resources to future acquisitions. mergers between our customers, suppliers and competitors could result in lower volumes being gathered, processed, fractionated, transported or stored on our assets, thereby reducing the amount of cash we generate. mergers between our existing customers, suppliers and our competitors could provide strong economic incentives for the combined entities to utilize their existing gathering, processing, fractionation and/or transportation systems instead of ours in those markets where the systems compete. as a result, we could lose some or all of the volumes and associated revenues from these counterparties, and we could experience difficulty in replacing those lost volumes. because most of our operating costs are fixed, a reduction in volumes could result not only in lower net income but also in a decline in cash flows, which would reduce our ability to pay cash dividends to our shareholders. we do not own all of the land on which our pipelines and facilities are located, and we lease certain facilities and equipment, which could disrupt our operations. we do not own all of the land on which certain of our pipelines and facilities are located, and we are, therefore, subject to the risk of increased costs to maintain necessary land use. we obtain the rights to construct and operate certain of our pipelines and related facilities on land owned by third parties and governmental agencies for a specific period of time. our loss of these 25 table of contents rights, through our inability to renew right-of-way contracts on acceptable terms or increased costs to renew such rights, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. terrorist attacks directed at our facilities could affect adversely our business. the united states government has issued warnings that energy assets, specifically the nation's pipeline infrastructure, may be future targets of terrorist organizations. these developments may subject our operations to increased risks. any future terrorist attack that may target our facilities, those of our customers and, in some cases, those of other pipelines, could have a material adverse effect on our business. any reduction in our credit ratings could affect materially and adversely our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. our long-term debt and our commercial paper program have been assigned an investment-grade credit rating of baa3 and prime-3 , respectively, by moody's and bbb and a-2 , respectively, by s&amp;p. we cannot provide assurance that any of our current ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances in the future so warrant. specifically, if moody's or s&amp;p were to downgrade our long-term debt or our commercial paper rating, particularly below investment grade, our borrowing costs would increase, which would affect adversely our financial results, and our potential pool of investors and funding sources could decrease. ratings from credit agencies are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our securities. each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. holders of our common stock may not receive dividends in the amount identified in guidance, or any dividends at all. we may not have sufficient cash each quarter to pay dividends or maintain current or expected levels of dividends. the actual amount of cash we pay in the form of dividends may fluctuate from quarter to quarter and will depend on various factors, some of which are beyond our control, including our working capital needs, our ability to borrow, the restrictions contained in our indentures and credit facility, our debt service requirements and the cost of acquisitions, if any. a failure either to pay dividends or to pay dividends at expected levels could result in a loss of investor confidence, reputational damage and a decrease in the value of our stock price. our operating cash flows are derived partially from cash distributions we receive from our unconsolidated affiliates. our operating cash flows are derived partially from cash distributions we receive from our unconsolidated affiliates, as discussed in note n of the notes to consolidated financial statements. the amount of cash that our unconsolidated affiliates can distribute principally depends upon the amount of cash flows these affiliates generate from their respective operations, which may fluctuate from quarter to quarter. we do not have any direct control over the cash distribution policies of our unconsolidated affiliates. this lack of control may contribute to us not having sufficient available cash each quarter to continue paying dividends at the current levels. additionally, the amount of cash that we have available for cash dividends depends primarily upon our cash flows, including cash flows from financial reserves and working capital borrowings, and is not solely a function of profitability, which will be affected by noncash items such as depreciation, amortization and provisions for asset impairments. as a result, we may be able to pay cash dividends during periods when we record losses and may not be able to pay cash dividends during periods when we record net income. we are exposed to the credit risk of our customers or counterparties, and our credit risk management may not be adequate to protect against such risk. we are subject to the risk of loss resulting from nonpayment and/or nonperformance by our customers and counterparties. our customers or counterparties may experience rapid deterioration of their financial condition as a result of changing market conditions, commodity prices or financial difficulties that could impact their creditworthiness or ability to pay us for our services. we assess the creditworthiness of our customers and counterparties and obtain collateral or contractual terms as we deem appropriate. we cannot, however, predict to what extent our business may be impacted by deteriorating market or financial conditions, including possible declines in our customers' and counterparties' creditworthiness. our customers and counterparties may not perform or adhere to our existing or future contractual arrangements. to the extent our customers and counterparties are in financial distress or commence bankruptcy proceedings, contracts with them may be subject to renegotiation or rejection under applicable provisions of the united states bankruptcy code. if we fail to assess adequately the creditworthiness of existing or future customers and counterparties any material nonpayment or nonperformance by our 26 table of contents customers and counterparties due to inability or unwillingness to perform or adhere to contractual arrangements could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay cash dividends to our shareholders. our primary market areas are located in the mid-continent, rocky mountain, permian basin and gulf coast regions of the u.s. our counterparties are primarily major integrated and independent exploration and production, pipeline, marketing and petrochemical companies. therefore our customers and counterparties may be similarly affected by changes in economic, regulatory or other factors that may affect our overall credit risk. our established risk-management policies and procedures may not be effective, and employees may violate our risk-management policies. we have developed and implemented a comprehensive set of policies and procedures that involve both our senior management and our audit committee to assist us in managing risks associated with, among other things, the marketing, trading and risk-management activities associated with our business segments. our risk-management policies and procedures are intended to align strategies, processes, people, information technology and business knowledge so that risk is managed throughout the organization. as conditions change and become more complex, current risk measures may fail to assess adequately the relevant risk due to changes in the market and the presence of risks previously unknown to us. additionally, if employees fail to adhere to our policies and procedures or if our policies and procedures are not effective, potentially because of future conditions or risks outside of our control, we may be exposed to greater risk than we had intended. ineffective risk-management policies and procedures or violation of risk-management policies and procedures could have an adverse effect on our earnings, financial position or cash flows. our businesses are subject to market and credit risks. we are exposed to market and credit risks in all of our operations. to reduce the impact of commodity price fluctuations, we may use derivative instruments, such as swaps, puts, futures and forwards, to hedge anticipated purchases and sales of natural gas, ngls, crude oil and firm transportation commitments. interest-rate swaps are also used to manage interest-rate risk. however, derivative instruments do not eliminate the risks. specifically, such risks include commodity price changes, market supply shortages, interest-rate changes and counterparty default. the impact of these variables could result in our inability to fulfill contractual obligations, significantly higher energy or fuel costs relative to corresponding sales contracts, or increased interest expense. we do not hedge fully against commodity price changes, seasonal price differentials, product price differentials or location price differentials. this could result in decreased revenues, increased costs and lower margins, affecting adversely our results of operations. certain of our businesses are exposed to market risk and the impact of market fluctuations in natural gas, ngls and crude oil prices. market risk refers to the risk of loss of cash flows and future earnings arising from adverse changes in commodity prices. our primary commodity price exposures arise from: the value of the commodities sold under pop with fee contracts of which we retain a portion of the sales proceeds; the price differentials between the individual ngl products with respect to our ngl transportation and fractionation agreements; the location price differentials in the price of natural gas and ngls with respect to our natural gas and ngl transportation businesses; the seasonal price differentials in natural gas and ngls related to our storage operations; and the fuel costs and the value of the retained fuel in-kind in our natural gas pipelines and storage operations. to manage the risk from market price fluctuations in natural gas, ngls and crude oil prices, we may use derivative instruments such as swaps, puts, futures, forwards and options. however, we do not hedge fully against commodity price changes, and we therefore retain some exposure to market risk. accordingly, any adverse changes to commodity prices could result in decreased revenue and increased costs. our use of financial instruments and physical forward transactions to hedge market-risk exposure to commodity price and interest-rate fluctuations may result in reduced income. we utilize financial instruments and physical forward transactions to mitigate our exposure to interest rate and commodity price fluctuations. hedging instruments that are used to reduce our exposure to interest-rate fluctuations could expose us to risk of 27 table of contents financial loss where we may contract for variable-rate swap instruments to hedge fixed-rate instruments and the variable rate exceeds the fixed rate. in addition, these hedging arrangements may limit the benefit we would otherwise receive if we had contracted for fixed-rate swap agreements to hedge variable-rate instruments and the variable rate falls below the fixed rate. hedging arrangements for forecasted sales are used to reduce our exposure to commodity price fluctuations and limit the benefit we would otherwise receive if market prices for natural gas, crude oil and ngls exceed the stated price in the hedge instrument for these commodities. changes in interest rates could affect adversely our business. we use both fixed and variable rate debt, and we are exposed to market risk due to the floating interest rates on our short-term borrowings. from time to time we use interest-rate derivatives to hedge interest obligations on specific debt issuances, including anticipated debt issuances. these hedges may be ineffective, and our results of operations, cash flows and financial position could be affected adversely by significant fluctuations in interest rates from current levels. demand for natural gas and for certain of our ngl products and services is highly weather sensitive and seasonal. the demand for natural gas and for certain of our ngl products, such as propane, is weather sensitive and seasonal, with a portion of revenues derived from sales for heating during the winter months. weather conditions influence directly the volume of, among other things, natural gas and propane delivered to customers. deviations in weather from normal levels and the seasonal nature of certain of our segments can create variations in earnings and short-term cash requirements. energy efficiency and technological advances may affect the demand for natural gas and ngls and affect adversely our operating results. more strict local, state and federal energy-conservation measures in the future or technological advances in heating, including installation of improved insulation and the development of more efficient furnaces, energy generation or other devices could affect the demand for natural gas and ngls and affect adversely our results of operations and cash flows. a breach of information security, including a cybersecurity attack, or failure of one or more key information technology or operational systems, or those of third parties, may affect adversely our operations, financial results or reputation. our businesses are dependent upon our operational systems to process a large amount of data and complex transactions. the various uses of these it systems, networks and services include, but are not limited to: controlling our plants and pipelines with industrial control systems including supervisory control and data acquisition (scada); collecting and storing customer, employee, investor and other stakeholder information and data; processing transactions; summarizing and reporting results of operations; hosting, processing and sharing confidential and proprietary research, business plans and financial information; complying with regulatory, legal or tax requirements; providing data security; and handling other processing necessary to manage our business. if any of our systems are damaged, fail to function properly or otherwise become unavailable, we may incur substantial costs to repair or replace them and may experience loss or corruption of critical data and interruptions or delays in our ability to perform critical functions, which could affect adversely our business and results of operations. our financial results could also be affected adversely if an employee causes our operational systems to fail, either as a result of inadvertent error or by deliberately tampering with or manipulating our operational systems. in addition, dependence upon automated systems may further increase the risk that operational system flaws, employee tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect. due to increased technology advances, we have become more reliant on technology to help increase efficiency in our businesses. we use software to help manage and operate our businesses, and this may subject us to increased risks. in recent years, there has been a rise in the number of cyberattacks on companies' network and information systems by both state-sponsored and criminal organizations, and as a result, the risks associated with such an event continue to increase. a significant failure, compromise, breach or interruption in our systems could result in a disruption of our operations, customer dissatisfaction, damage to our reputation and a loss of customers or revenues. if any such failure, interruption or similar event results in the improper disclosure of information maintained in our information systems and networks or those of our vendors, 28 table of contents including personnel, customer and vendor information, we could also be subject to liability under relevant contractual obligations and laws and regulations protecting personal data and privacy. efforts by us and our vendors to develop, implement and maintain security measures may not be successful in preventing these events from occurring, and any network and information systems-related events could require us to expend significant resources to remedy such event. although we believe that we have robust information security procedures and other safeguards in place, as cyberthreats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend additional resources to continue to enhance our information security measures and/or to investigate and remediate information security vulnerabilities. cyberattacks against us or others in our industry could result in additional regulations. current efforts by the federal government, such as the improving critical infrastructure cybersecurity executive order, and any potential future regulations could lead to increased regulatory compliance costs, insurance coverage cost or capital expenditures. we cannot predict the potential impact to our business or the energy industry resulting from additional regulations. if we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to report accurately our financial results or prevent fraud. as a result, current and potential holders of our equity and debt securities could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and cost of capital. effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports, prevent fraud and operate successfully as a public company. we cannot be certain that our efforts to maintain our internal controls will be successful, that we will be able to maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future or that we will be able to continue to comply with our obligations under section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. any failure to maintain effective internal controls, or difficulties encountered in implementing or improving our internal controls, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. ineffective internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which would likely have a negative effect on the trading price of our equity interests. pipeline safety laws and regulations may impose significant costs and liabilities. pipeline safety legislation that was signed into law in 2012, the 2011 pipeline safety act, directed the secretary of transportation to promulgate new safety regulations for natural gas and hazardous liquids pipelines, including expanded integrity management requirements, automatic or remote-controlled valve use, excess flow valve use, leak detection system installation, testing to confirm the material strength of certain pipelines and operator verification of records confirming the maximum allowable pressure of certain gas transmission pipelines. the 2011 pipeline safety act also increased the maximum penalty for violation of pipeline safety regulations from $100,000 to $200,000 per violation per day and also from $1 million to $2 million for a related series of violations. the 2011 pipeline safety act, the protecting our infrastructure of pipelines and enhancing safety act or rules implementing such acts could cause us to incur capital and operating expenditures for pipeline replacements or repairs, additional monitoring equipment or more frequent inspections or testing of our pipeline facilities, preventive or mitigating measures and other tasks that could result in higher operating costs or capital expenditures as necessary to comply with such standards, which costs could be significant. see further discussion in the regulatory, environmental and safety matters section. compliance with environmental regulations that we are subject to may be difficult and costly. we are subject to multiple federal, state, local and/or tribal historical preservation and environmental laws and/or regulations that affect many aspects of our present and future operations. regulated activities include, but are not limited to, those involving air emissions, storm water and wastewater discharges, handling and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes, wetlands and waterways preservation, cultural resources protection, hazardous materials transportation, and pipeline and facility construction. these laws and regulations require us to obtain and/or comply with a wide variety of environmental clearances, registrations, licenses, permits and other approvals. failure to comply with these laws, regulations, licenses and permits may expose us to fines, penalties and/or interruptions in our operations that could be material to our results of operations. for example, if a leak or spill of hazardous substances or petroleum products occurs from our pipelines or facilities that we own, operate or otherwise use, we could be held jointly and severally liable for all resulting liabilities, including response, investigation and clean-up costs, which could affect materially our results of operations and cash flows. in addition, emissions controls and/or other regulatory or permitting mandates under the federal clean air act and other similar federal and state laws could require unexpected capital expenditures at our facilities. we cannot assure that existing environmental statutes and regulations will not be revised or that new regulations will not be adopted or become applicable to 29 table of contents us. revised or additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, particularly if those costs are not fully recoverable from customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. our operations are subject to federal and state laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, which may expose us to significant costs and liabilities. the risk of incurring substantial environmental costs and liabilities is inherent in our business. our operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into, or otherwise relating to the protection of, the environment. examples of these laws include: the clean air act and analogous state laws that impose obligations related to air emissions; the clean water act and analogous state laws that regulate discharge of wastewater from our facilities to state and federal waters; the federal comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act (cercla) and analogous state laws that regulate the cleanup of hazardous substances that may have been released at properties currently or previously owned or operated by us or locations to which we have sent waste for disposal; and the federal resource conservation and recovery act and analogous state laws that impose requirements for the handling and discharge of solid and hazardous waste from our facilities. various federal and state governmental authorities, including the epa, have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them. violators are subject to administrative, civil and criminal penalties, including civil fines, injunctions or both. joint and several, strict liability may be incurred without regard to fault under the cercla, resource conservation and recovery act and analogous state laws for the remediation of contaminated areas. there is an inherent risk of incurring environmental costs and liabilities in our business due to our handling of the products we gather, transport, process and store, air emissions related to our operations, past industry operations and waste disposal practices, some of which may be material. private parties, including the owners of properties through which our pipeline systems pass, may have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as to seek damages for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage arising from our operations. some sites we operate are located near current or former third-party hydrocarbon storage and processing operations, and there is a risk that contamination has migrated from those sites to ours. in addition, increasingly strict laws, regulations and enforcement policies could increase significantly our compliance costs and the cost of any remediation that may become necessary, some of which may be material. additional information is included under item 1, business, under regulatory, environmental and safety matters and in note o of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this annual report. our insurance may not cover all environmental risks and costs or may not provide sufficient coverage in the event an environmental claim is made against us. our business may be affected materially and adversely by increased costs due to stricter pollution-control requirements or liabilities resulting from noncompliance with required operating or other regulatory permits. new or revised environmental regulations might also affect materially and adversely our products and activities, and federal and state agencies could impose additional safety requirements, all of which could affect materially our profitability. we may face significant costs to comply with the regulation of ghg emissions. ghg emissions originate primarily from combustion engine exhaust, heater exhaust and fugitive methane gas emissions. international, federal, regional and/or state legislative and/or regulatory initiatives may attempt to control or limit ghg emissions, including initiatives directed at issues associated with climate change. various federal and state legislative proposals have been introduced to regulate the emission of ghgs, particularly carbon dioxide and methane, and the united states supreme court has ruled that carbon dioxide is a pollutant subject to regulation by the epa. in addition, there have been international efforts seeking legally binding reductions in emissions of ghgs. we believe it is likely that future governmental legislation and/or regulation may require us either to limit ghg emissions associated with our operations or to purchase allowances for such emissions. however, we cannot predict precisely what form these future regulations will take, the stringency of the regulations or when they will become effective. several legislative bills have been introduced in the united states congress that would require carbon dioxide emission reductions. previously considered proposals have included, among other things, limitations on the amount of ghgs that can be emitted (so called caps ) together with systems of permitted emissions allowances. these proposals could require us to reduce emissions, even though the technology is not currently available for efficient reduction, or to purchase allowances for such emissions. emissions also could be taxed independently of limits. 30 table of contents in addition to activities on the federal level, state and regional initiatives could also lead to the regulation of ghg emissions sooner than and/or independent of federal regulation. these regulations could be more stringent than any federal legislation that may be adopted. future legislation and/or regulation designed to reduce ghg emissions could make some of our activities uneconomic to maintain or operate. further, we may not be able to pass on the higher costs to our customers or recover all costs related to complying with ghg regulatory requirements. our future results of operations, cash flows or financial condition could be affected adversely if such costs are not recovered through regulated rates or otherwise passed on to our customers. we continue to monitor legislative and regulatory developments in this area and otherwise take efforts to limit ghg emissions from our facilities, including methane. although the regulation of ghg emissions may have a material impact on our operations and rates, we believe it is premature to attempt to quantify the potential costs of the impacts. we may be subject to physical and financial risks associated with climate change. there is a belief that emissions of ghgs is linked to global climate change. climate change creates physical and financial risk. our customers' energy needs vary with weather conditions, primarily temperature and humidity. for residential customers, heating and cooling represent their largest energy use. to the extent weather conditions may be affected by climate change, customers' energy use could increase or decrease depending on the duration and magnitude of any changes. increased energy use due to weather changes may require us to invest in more pipelines and other infrastructure to serve increased demand. a decrease in energy use due to weather changes may affect our financial condition, through decreased revenues. extreme weather conditions in general require more system backup, adding to costs, and can contribute to increased system stresses, including service interruptions. weather conditions outside of our operating territory could also have an impact on our revenues. severe weather impacts our operating territories primarily through hurricanes, thunderstorms, tornados and snow or ice storms. to the extent the frequency of extreme weather events increases, this could increase our cost of providing service. we may not be able to pass on the higher costs to our customers or recover all costs related to mitigating these physical risks. to the extent financial markets view climate change and emissions of ghgs as a financial risk, this could affect negatively our ability to access capital markets or cause us to receive less favorable terms and conditions in future financings. our business could be affected by the potential for lawsuits against ghg emitters, based on links drawn between ghg emissions and climate change. if production from the western canada sedimentary basin remains flat or declines and demand for natural gas from the western canada sedimentary basin is greater in market areas other than the midwestern united states, demand for our interstate transportation services could decrease significantly. we depend on a portion of natural gas supply from the western canada sedimentary basin for some of our interstate pipelines, primarily viking gas transmission and our investment in northern border pipeline, that transport canadian natural gas from the western canada sedimentary basin to the midwestern united states market area. if demand for natural gas increases in canada or other markets not served by our pipelines and/or production remains flat or declines, demand for transportation service on our interstate natural gas pipelines could decrease significantly, which could impact adversely our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our business is subject to regulatory oversight and potential penalties. the natural gas industry historically has been subject to heavy state and federal regulation that extends to many aspects of our businesses and operations, including: rates, operating terms and conditions of service; the types of services we may offer our counterparties; construction of new facilities; the integrity, safety and security of facilities and operations; acquisition, extension or abandonment of services or facilities; reporting and information posting requirements; maintenance of accounts and records; and relationships with affiliate companies involved in all aspects of the natural gas and energy businesses. compliance with these requirements can be costly and burdensome. future changes to laws, regulations and policies in these areas may impair our ability to compete for business or to recover costs and may increase the cost and burden of operations. 31 table of contents we cannot guarantee that state or federal regulators will authorize any projects or acquisitions that we may propose in the future. moreover, there can be no guarantee that, if granted, any such authorizations will be made in a timely manner or will be free from potentially burdensome conditions. failure to comply with all applicable state or federal statutes, rules and regulations and orders could bring substantial penalties and fines. for example, under the energy policy act of 2005, the ferc has civil penalty authority under the natural gas act to impose penalties for current violations of up to $1 million per day for each violation. finally, we cannot give any assurance regarding future state or federal regulations under which we will operate or the effect such regulations could have on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our regulated pipelines' transportation rates are subject to review and possible adjustment by federal and state regulators. under the natural gas act, which is applicable to interstate natural gas pipelines, and the interstate commerce act, which is applicable to crude oil and natural gas liquids pipelines, our interstate transportation rates, which are regulated by the ferc, must be just and reasonable and not unduly discriminatory. under current policy, the ferc permits interstate pipelines that are subject to cost of service regulation to include an income tax allowance when calculating their regulated rates. the ferc's income tax allowance policy has been the subject of challenge, and we cannot predict whether the ferc or a reviewing court will alter the existing policy. for example, on july 1, 2016, the u.s. court of appeals for the district of columbia circuit issued a decision that calls into question a decade of ferc policy and precedent permitting regulated companies organized as pass-through entities for income tax purposes to include an allowance for income taxes in their rates. the court has remanded the case to the ferc to allow it to have an opportunity to provide a reasoned basis for its decision on income tax allowances for partnership pipelines. the ferc has issued a notice of inquiry seeking comments on proposed methods to adjust ferc's income tax policy. comments were due in march 2017, but additional comments continue to be filed. if the ferc's policy were to change and if the ferc were to disallow a substantial portion of our pipelines' income tax allowance, our regulated rates, and therefore our revenues and ability to make quarterly cash dividends to our shareholders, could be affected adversely. the tax cuts and jobs act may reduce future tariff rates charged on our regulated pipelines. if in the future the ferc or other regulatory bodies were to require a refund of previously collected amounts on our regulated pipelines related to this tax legislation, then we may be required to record a regulatory liability through a one-time charge to expense, which could be material. if we were permitted to raise our tariff rates for a particular pipeline, there might be significant delay between the time the tariff rate increase is approved and the time that the rate increase actually goes into effect. furthermore, competition from other pipeline systems may prevent us from raising our tariff rates even if regulatory agencies permit us to do so. the regulatory agencies that regulate our systems periodically implement new rules, regulations and terms and conditions of services subject to their jurisdiction. new initiatives or orders may affect adversely the rates charged for our services. finally, shippers may protest our pipeline tariff filings, and the ferc and or state regulatory agency may investigate tariff rates. further, the ferc may order refunds of amounts collected under newly filed rates that are determined by the ferc to be in excess of a just and reasonable level. in addition, shippers may challenge by complaint the lawfulness of tariff rates that have become final and effective. the ferc and/or state regulatory agencies also may investigate tariff rates absent shipper complaint. any finding that approved rates exceed a just and reasonable level on the natural gas pipelines would take effect prospectively. in a complaint proceeding challenging natural gas liquids pipeline rates, if the ferc determines existing rates exceed a just and reasonable level, it could require the payment of reparations to complaining shippers for up to two years prior to the complaint. any such action by the ferc or a comparable action by a state regulatory agency could affect adversely our pipeline businesses' ability to charge rates that would cover future increases in costs, or even to continue to collect rates that cover current costs, and provide for a reasonable return. we can provide no assurance that our pipeline systems will be able to recover all of their costs through existing or future rates. we are subject to comprehensive energy regulation by governmental agencies, and the recovery of our costs are dependent on regulatory action. federal, state and local agencies have jurisdiction over many of our activities, including regulation by the ferc of our interstate pipeline assets. the profitability of our regulated operations is dependent on our ability to pass through costs related 32 table of contents to providing energy and other commodities to our customers by filing periodic rate cases. the regulatory environment applicable to our regulated businesses could impair our ability to recover costs historically absorbed by our customers. we are unable to predict the impact that the future regulatory activities of these agencies will have on our operating results. changes in regulations or the imposition of additional regulations could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. our regulated pipeline companies have recorded certain assets that may not be recoverable from our customers. accounting policies for ferc-regulated companies permit certain assets that result from the regulated rate-making process to be recorded on our balance sheet that could not be recorded under gaap for nonregulated entities. we consider factors such as regulatory changes and the impact of competition to determine the probability of future recovery of these assets. if we determine future recovery is no longer probable, we would be required to write off the regulatory assets at that time. some of our nonregulated businesses have a higher level of risk than our regulated businesses. some of our nonregulated operations, which include our natural gas gathering and processing segment, much of our natural gas liquids segment and a portion of our natural gas pipelines segment, have a higher level of risk than our regulated operations, which includes a portion of our natural gas pipelines segment and a portion of our natural gas liquids segment. we expect to continue investing in natural gas and natural gas liquids projects and other related projects, some or all of which may involve nonregulated businesses or assets. these projects could involve risks associated with operational factors, such as competition and dependence on certain suppliers and customers; and financial, economic and political factors, such as rapid and significant changes in commodity prices, the cost and availability of capital and counterparty risk, including the inability of a counterparty, customer or supplier to fulfill a contractual obligation. a shortage of skilled labor may make it difficult for us to maintain labor productivity and competitive costs, which could affect operations and cash flows available for dividends to our shareholders. our operations require skilled and experienced workers with proficiency in multiple tasks. in recent years, a shortage of workers trained in various skills associated with the midstream energy business has caused us to conduct certain operations without full staff, thus hiring outside resources, which may decrease productivity and increase costs. this shortage of trained workers is the result of experienced workers reaching retirement age and increased competition for workers in certain areas, combined with the difficulty of attracting new workers to the midstream energy industry. this shortage of skilled labor could continue over an extended period. if the shortage of experienced labor continues or worsens, it could have an adverse impact on our labor productivity and costs and our ability to expand production in the event there is an increase in the demand for our products and services, which could affect adversely our operations and cash flows available for dividends to our shareholders. we are subject to strict regulations at many of our facilities regarding employee safety, and failure to comply with these regulations could affect adversely our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. the workplaces associated with our facilities are subject to the requirements of osha and comparable state statutes that regulate the protection of the health and safety of workers. the failure to comply with osha requirements or general industry standards, including keeping adequate records or monitoring occupational exposure to regulated substances, could expose us to civil or criminal liability, enforcement actions, and regulatory fines and penalties and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. measurement adjustments on our pipeline system may be impacted materially by changes in estimation, type of commodity and other factors. natural gas and natural gas liquids measurement adjustments occur as part of the normal operating conditions associated with our assets. the quantification and resolution of measurement adjustments are complicated by several factors including: (1) the significant quantities ( i.e. , thousands) of measurement equipment that we use throughout our natural gas and natural gas liquids systems, primarily around our gathering and processing assets; (2) varying qualities of natural gas in the streams gathered and processed through our systems and the mixed nature of ngls gathered and fractionated; and (3) variances in measurement that are inherent in metering technologies. each of these factors may contribute to measurement adjustments that can occur on our systems, which could negatively affect our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 33 table of contents many of our pipeline and storage assets have been in service for several decades. many of our pipeline and storage assets are designed as long-lived assets. over time the age of these assets could result in increased maintenance or remediation expenditures and an increased risk of product releases and associated costs and liabilities. any significant increase in these expenditures, costs or liabilities could affect materially and adversely our results of operations, financial position or cash flows, as well as our ability to pay cash dividends. we may be unable to cause our joint ventures to take or not to take certain actions unless some or all of our joint-venture participants agree. we participate in several joint ventures. due to the nature of some of these arrangements, each participant in these joint ventures has made substantial investments in the joint venture and, accordingly, has required that the relevant charter documents contain certain features designed to provide each participant with the opportunity to participate in the management of the joint venture and to protect its investment, as well as any other assets that may be substantially dependent on or otherwise affected by the activities of that joint venture. these participation and protective features customarily include a corporate governance structure that requires at least a majority-in-interest vote to authorize many basic activities and requires a greater voting interest (sometimes up to 100 percent) to authorize more significant activities. examples of these more significant activities are large expenditures or contractual commitments, the construction or acquisition of assets, borrowing money or otherwise raising capital, transactions with affiliates of a joint-venture participant, litigation and transactions not in the ordinary course of business, among others. thus, without the concurrence of joint-venture participants with enough voting interests, we may be unable to cause any of our joint ventures to take or not to take certain actions, even though those actions may be in the best interest of us or the particular joint venture. moreover, any joint-venture owner generally may sell, transfer or otherwise modify its ownership interest in a joint venture, whether in a transaction involving third parties or the other joint-venture owners. any such transaction could result in us being required to partner with different or additional parties. we do not operate all of our joint-venture assets nor do we employ directly all of the persons responsible for providing us with administrative, operating and management services. this reliance on others to operate joint-venture assets and to provide other services could affect adversely our business and operating results. we rely on others to provide administrative, operating and management services for certain of our joint-venture assets. we have a limited ability to control the operations and the associated costs of such operations. the success of these operations depends on a number of factors that are outside our control, including the competence and financial resources of the provider. some or all of these services may be outsourced to third parties, and a failure to perform by these third-party providers could lead to delays in or interruptions of these services. we may have to contract elsewhere for these services, which may cost more than we are currently paying. in addition, we may not be able to obtain the same level or kind of service or retain or receive the services in a timely manner, which may impact our ability to perform under our contracts and negatively affect our business and operating results. our reliance on others to operate joint-venture assets, together with our limited ability to control certain costs, could harm our business and results of operations. an impairment of goodwill, long-lived assets, including intangible assets, and equity-method investments could reduce our earnings. goodwill is recorded when the purchase price of a business exceeds the fair market value of the tangible and separately measurable intangible net assets. gaap requires us to test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis or when events or circumstances occur indicating that goodwill might be impaired. long-lived assets, including intangible assets with finite useful lives, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. for the investments we account for under the equity method, the impairment test considers whether the fair value of the equity investment as a whole, not the underlying net assets, has declined and whether that decline is other than temporary. for example, if a low commodity price environment persisted for a prolonged period, it could result in lower volumes delivered to our systems and impairments of our assets or equity-method investments. if we determine that an impairment is indicated, we would be required to take an immediate noncash charge to earnings with a correlative effect on equity and balance sheet leverage as measured by consolidated debt to total capitalization. 34 table of contents our indebtedness and guarantee obligations could impair our financial condition and our ability to fulfill our obligations. as of december 31, 2017 , we had total indebtedness of $9.2 billion . our indebtedness and guarantee obligations could have significant consequences. for example, they could: make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to senior notes and other indebtedness due to the increased debt-service obligations, which could, in turn, result in an event of default on such other indebtedness or the senior notes; impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general business purposes; diminish our ability to withstand a downturn in our business or the economy; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to debt-service payments, reducing the availability of cash for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, dividends or general corporate purposes; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared with our competitors that have proportionately less debt and fewer guarantee obligations. we are not prohibited under the indentures governing the senior notes from incurring additional indebtedness, but our debt agreements do subject us to certain operational limitations summarized in the next paragraph. if we incur significant additional indebtedness, it could worsen the negative consequences mentioned above and could affect adversely our ability to repay our other indebtedness. our revolving debt agreements with banks contain provisions that restrict our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to expand or pursue our business activities. for example, certain of these agreements contain provisions that, among other things, limit our ability to make loans or investments, make material changes to the nature of our business, merge, consolidate or engage in asset sales, grant liens or make negative pledges. certain agreements also require us to maintain certain financial ratios, which limit the amount of additional indebtedness we can incur, as described in the liquidity and capital resources section of part ii, item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation. these restrictions could result in higher costs of borrowing and impair our ability to generate additional cash. future financing agreements we may enter into may contain similar or more restrictive covenants. if we are unable to meet our debt-service obligations, we could be forced to restructure or refinance our indebtedness, seek additional equity capital or sell assets. we may be unable to obtain financing or sell assets on satisfactory terms, or at all. the right to receive payments on our outstanding debt securities and subsidiary guarantees is unsecured and will be effectively subordinated to our existing and future secured indebtedness as well as to any existing and future indebtedness of our subsidiaries that do not guarantee the senior notes. our debt securities are effectively subordinated to claims of our secured creditors, and the guarantees are effectively subordinated to the claims of our secured creditors as well as the secured creditors of our subsidiary guarantors. although many of our operating subsidiaries have guaranteed such debt securities, the guarantees are subject to release under certain circumstances, and we may have subsidiaries that are not guarantors. in that case, the debt securities effectively would be subordinated to the claims of all creditors, including trade creditors and tort claimants, of our subsidiaries that are not guarantors. in the event of the insolvency, bankruptcy, liquidation, reorganization, dissolution or winding up of the business of a subsidiary that is not a guarantor, creditors of that subsidiary would generally have the right to be paid in full before any distribution is made to us or the holders of the debt securities. an event of default may require us to offer to repurchase certain of our and oneok partners' senior notes or may impair our ability to access capital. the indentures governing certain of our and oneok partners' senior notes include an event of default upon the acceleration of other indebtedness of $15 million or more for certain of our senior notes or $100 million or more for certain of our senior notes and oneok partners' senior notes. such events of default would entitle the trustee or the holders of 25 percent in aggregate principal amount of oneok partners' outstanding senior notes to declare those senior notes immediately due and payable in full. we may not have sufficient cash on hand to repurchase and repay any accelerated senior notes, which may cause us to borrow money under our credit facility or seek alternative financing sources to finance the repurchases and repayment. we could also face difficulties accessing capital or our borrowing costs could increase, impacting our ability to obtain financing for acquisitions or capital expenditures, to refinance indebtedness and to fulfill our debt obligations. 35 table of contents a court may use fraudulent conveyance considerations to avoid or subordinate the cross guarantees of our and oneok partners' indebtedness. various applicable fraudulent conveyance laws have been enacted for the protection of creditors. in connection with the closing of the merger transaction, oneok, oneok partners and the intermediate partnership issued cross guarantees for our and oneok partners' senior notes, borrowings under the $2.5 billion credit agreement and the term loan agreement and our commercial paper. a court may use fraudulent conveyance laws to subordinate or avoid the cross guarantees of certain of our and oneok partners' indebtedness. it is also possible that under certain circumstances, a court could hold that the direct obligations of the guarantor could be superior to the obligations under that cross guarantee. a court could avoid or subordinate the guarantor's guarantee of our and oneok partners' indebtedness in favor of the guarantor's other debts or liabilities to the extent that the court determined either of the following were true at the time the guarantor issued the guarantee: the guarantor incurred the guarantee with the intent to hinder, delay or defraud any of its present or future creditors or the guarantor contemplated insolvency with a design to favor one or more creditors to the total or partial exclusion of others; or the guarantor did not receive fair consideration or reasonable equivalent value for issuing the guarantee and, at the time it issued the guarantee, the guarantor: was insolvent or rendered insolvent by reason of the issuance of the guarantee; was engaged or about to engage in a business or transaction for which its remaining assets constituted unreasonably small capital; or intended to incur, or believed that it would incur, debts beyond its ability to pay such debts as they matured. the measure of insolvency for purposes of the foregoing will vary depending upon the law of the relevant jurisdiction. generally, however, an entity would be considered insolvent for purposes of the foregoing if: the sum of its debts, including contingent liabilities, were greater than the fair saleable value of all of its assets at a fair valuation; the present fair saleable value of its assets was less than the amount that would be required to pay its probable liability on its existing debts, including contingent liabilities, as they become absolute and mature; or it could not pay its debts as they become due. among other things, a legal challenge of the cross guarantees of our and oneok partners' indebtedness on fraudulent conveyance grounds may focus on the benefits, if any, realized by the guarantor as a result of our and oneok partners' issuance of such debt. to the extent the guarantor's guarantee of our and oneok partners' indebtedness is avoided as a result of fraudulent conveyance or held unenforceable for any other reason, the holders of such debt would cease to have any claim in respect of the guarantee. the cost of providing pension and postretirement health care benefits to eligible employees and qualified retirees is subject to changes in pension fund values and changing demographics and may increase. we have a defined benefit pension plan for certain employees and postretirement welfare plans that provide postretirement medical and life insurance benefits to certain employees who retire with at least five years of service. the cost of providing these benefits to eligible current and former employees is subject to changes in the market value of our pension and postretirement benefit plan assets, changing demographics, including longer life expectancy of plan participants and their beneficiaries and changes in health care costs. for further discussion of our defined benefit pension plan, see note l of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this annual report. any sustained declines in equity markets and reductions in bond yields may have a material adverse effect on the value of our pension and postretirement benefit plan assets. in these circumstances, additional cash contributions to our pension plans may be required, which could impact adversely our business, financial condition and liquidity. tax risks federal, state and local jurisdictions may challenge our tax return positions. the positions taken in our federal and state tax return filings require significant judgments, use of estimates and the interpretation and application of complex tax laws. significant judgment is also required in assessing the timing and amounts 36 table of contents of deductible and taxable items. despite management's belief that our tax return positions are fully supportable, certain positions may be successfully challenged by federal, state and local jurisdictions. the separation of one gas could result in substantial tax liability. we have received a private letter ruling from the irs substantially to the effect that, for u.s. federal income tax purposes, the separation and certain related transactions qualify under sections 355 and/or 368 of the u.s. internal revenue code of 1986, as amended. if the factual assumptions or representations made in the request for the private letter ruling prove to have been inaccurate or incomplete in any material respect, then we will not be able to rely on the ruling. furthermore, the irs does not rule on whether a distribution such as the separation satisfies certain requirements necessary to obtain tax-free treatment under section 355 of the code. the private letter ruling was based on representations by us that those requirements were satisfied, and any inaccuracy in those representations could invalidate the ruling. in connection with the separation, we obtained an opinion of outside legal and tax counsel, substantially to the effect that, for u.s. federal income tax purposes, the separation and certain related transactions qualify under sections 355 and 368 of the code. the opinion relies on, among other things, the continuing validity of the private letter ruling and various assumptions and representations as to factual matters made by us which, if inaccurate or incomplete in any material respect, would jeopardize the conclusions reached by such counsel in its opinion. the opinion will not be binding on the irs or the courts, and there can be no assurance that the irs or the courts would not challenge the conclusions stated in the opinion or that any such challenge would not prevail. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 62 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our exposure to market risk discussed below includes forward-looking statements and represents an estimate of possible changes in future earnings that could occur assuming hypothetical future movements in interest rates or commodity prices. our views on market risk are not necessarily indicative of actual results that may occur and do not represent the maximum possible gains and losses that may occur since actual gains and losses will differ from those estimated based on actual fluctuations in interest rates or commodity prices and the timing of transactions. 62 table of contents we are exposed to market risk due to commodity price and interest-rate volatility. market risk is the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices. we may use financial instruments, including forward sales, swaps, options and futures, to manage the risks of certain identifiable or anticipated transactions and achieve more predictable cash flows. our risk-management function follows established policies and procedures to monitor our natural gas, condensate and ngl marketing activities and interest rates to ensure our hedging activities mitigate market risks. we do not use financial instruments for trading purposes. we record derivative instruments at fair value. we estimate the fair value of derivative instruments using available market information and appropriate valuation techniques. changes in derivative instruments' fair values are recognized in earnings unless the instrument qualifies as a hedge and meets specific hedge accounting criteria. the effective portion of qualifying derivative instruments' gains and losses may offset the hedged items' related results in earnings for a fair value hedge or be deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) for a cash flow hedge. commodity price risk as part of our hedging strategy, we use commodity derivative financial instruments and physical-forward contracts described in note d of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this annual report to reduce the impact of near-term price fluctuations of natural gas, ngls and condensate. although our businesses are primarily fee-based, in our natural gas gathering and processing segment, we are exposed to commodity price risk as a result of retaining a portion of the commodity sales proceeds associated with our pop with fee contracts. we have restructured a portion of our pop with fee contracts to include significantly higher fees, which reduces our equity volumes and the related commodity price exposure. however, under certain pop with fee contracts, our fees and pop percentage may increase or decrease if production volumes, delivery pressures or commodity prices change relative to specified thresholds. we are exposed to basis risk between the various production and market locations where we buy and sell commodities. the following tables set forth hedging information for our natural gas gathering and processing segment's forecasted equity volumes for the periods indicated: year ending december 31, 2018 volumes hedged average price percentage hedged ngls - excluding ethane ( mbbl/d ) - conway/mont belvieu 8.1 $ 0.66 / gallon 79% condensate ( mbbl/d ) - wti-nymex 2.4 $ 52.65 / bbl 77% natural gas ( bbtu/d ) - nymex and basis 67.2 $ 2.79 / mmbtu 83% year ending december 31, 2019 volumes hedged average price percentage hedged ngls - excluding ethane ( mbbl/d ) - conway/mont belvieu 7.2 $ 0.71 / gallon 71% condensate ( mbbl/d ) - wti-nymex 2.2 $ 56.90 / bbl 65% our natural gas gathering and processing segment's commodity price sensitivity is estimated as a hypothetical change in the price of ngls, crude oil and natural gas at december 31, 2017 . condensate sales are typically based on the price of crude oil. we estimate the following for our forecasted equity volumes, including the effects of hedging information set forth above, and assuming normal operating conditions: a $0.01 per-gallon change in the composite price of ngls would change 12-month adjusted ebitda for the years ending december 31, 2018 and 2019, by approximately $1.9 million and $2.9 million , respectively; a $1.00 per-barrel change in the price of crude oil would change 12-month adjusted ebitda for the years ending december 31, 2018 and 2019, by approximately $0.5 million and $0.6 million , respectively; and a $0.10 per-mmbtu change in the price of residue natural gas would change 12-month adjusted ebitda for the years ending december 31, 2018 and 2019, by approximately $0.5 million and $2.8 million , respectively. these estimates do not include any effects on demand for our services or natural gas processing plant operations that might be caused by, or arise in conjunction with, commodity price fluctuations. for example, a change in the gross processing spread may cause a change in the amount of ethane extracted from the natural gas stream, impacting gathering and processing financial results for certain contracts. see note d for more information on our hedging activities. 63 table of contents interest-rate risk we are exposed to interest-rate risk through our $2.5 billion credit agreement, commercial paper program and long-term debt issuances. future increases in libor, corporate commercial paper rates or corporate bond rates could expose us to increased interest costs on future borrowings. we manage interest-rate risk through the use of fixed-rate debt, floating-rate debt and interest-rate swaps. interest-rate swaps are agreements to exchange interest payments at some future point based on specified notional amounts. at december 31, 2017 , and december 31, 2016, we had forward-starting interest-rate swaps with notional amounts totaling $1.3 billion and $1.2 billion , respectively, to hedge the variability of interest payments on a portion of our forecasted debt issuances and interest-rate swaps with notional amounts totaling $500 million and $1.0 billion , respectively, to hedge the variability of our libor-based interest payments. all of our interest-rate swaps are designated as cash flow hedges. at december 31, 2017 , we had derivative assets of $50.0 million related to these interest-rate swaps. at december 31, 2016 , we had derivative assets of $47.5 million and derivative liabilities of $12.8 million related to these interest-rate swaps. in july 2017, we settled $400 million of our forward-starting interest-rate swaps upon the completion of our underwritten public offering of $1.2 billion senior unsecured notes and $500 million of our interest-rate swaps used to hedge our libor-based interest payments. in january 2018, we settled the remaining $500 million of our interest-rate swaps used to hedge our libor-based interest payments. see note d for more information on our hedging activities. counterparty credit risk we assess the creditworthiness of our counterparties on an ongoing basis and require security, including prepayments and other forms of collateral, when appropriate. certain of our counterparties may be impacted by a relatively low commodity price environment and could experience financial problems, which could result in nonpayment and/or nonperformance, which could impact adversely our results of operations. customer concentration - in 2017, no single customer represented more than 10 percent of our consolidated revenues and only 25 customers individually represented one percent or more of our consolidated revenues, the majority of which are investment-grade customers, as rated by s&amp;p, moody's or our comparable internal ratings, or secured by letters of credit or other collateral. natural gas gathering and processing - our natural gas gathering and processing segment derives services revenue primarily from crude oil and natural gas producers, which include both large integrated and independent exploration and production companies. in this segment, our downstream commodity sales customers are primarily utilities, large industrial companies, marketing companies and our ngl affiliate. we are not typically exposed to material credit risk with producers under pop with fee contracts as we sell the commodities and remit a portion of the sales proceeds back to the producer customer. in 2017 and 2016, approximately 95 percent and 99 percent , respectively, of the downstream commodity sales in our natural gas gathering and processing segment were made to investment-grade customers, as rated by s&amp;p, moody's or our comparable internal ratings, or were secured by letters of credit or other collateral. natural gas liquids - our natural gas liquids segment's customers are primarily ngl and natural gas gathering and processing companies; large integrated and independent crude oil and natural gas production companies; propane distributors; ethanol producers; and petrochemical, refining and ngl marketing companies. we earn fee-based revenue from ngl and natural gas gathering and processing customers and natural gas liquids pipeline transportation customers. we are not typically exposed to material credit risk on the majority of our exchange services fee revenues, as we purchase ngls from our gathering and processing customers and deduct our fee from the amounts we remit. we also earn sales revenue on the downstream sales of ngl products. in 2017 and 2016, approximately 80 percent of this segment's commodity sales were made to investment-grade customers, as rated by s&amp;p, moody's or our comparable internal ratings, or were secured by letters of credit or other collateral. in addition, the majority of our natural gas liquids segment's pipeline tariffs provide us the ability to require security from shippers. natural gas pipelines - our natural gas pipelines segment's customers are primarily local natural gas distribution companies, electric-generation facilities, large industrial companies, municipalities, producers and marketing companies. in 2017 and 2016, approximately 90 percent and 85 percent , respectively, of our revenues in this segment were from investment-grade customers, as rated by s&amp;p, moody's or our comparable internal ratings, or were secured by letters of credit or other collateral. in addition, the majority of our natural gas pipelines segment's pipeline tariffs provide us the ability to require security from shippers. 64 table of contents this page intentionally left blank. 65 table of contentsrisk factors 18 risk factors our investors should consider the following risks that could affect us and our business. although we have tried to identify key factors, our investors need to be aware that other risks may prove to be important in the future. new risks may emerge at any time, and we cannot predict such risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect our financial performance. investors should consider carefully the following discussion of risks and the other information included or incorporated by reference in this annual report, including forward-looking statements, which are included in part ii, item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. risks inherent in our business if the level of drilling in the regions in which we operate declines substantially near our assets, our volumes and revenues could decline. our gathering and transportation pipeline systems are connected to, and dependent on the level of production from, natural gas and crude oil wells, from which production will naturally decline over time. as a result, our cash flows associated with these wells will also decline over time. in order to maintain or increase throughput levels on our gathering and transportation pipeline systems and the asset utilization rates at our processing and fractionation plants, we must continually obtain new supplies. our ability to maintain or expand our businesses depends largely on the level of drilling and production by third parties in the regions in which we operate. our natural gas and ngl supply volumes may be impacted if producers curtail or redirect drilling and production activities. drilling and production are impacted by factors beyond our control, including: demand and prices for natural gas, ngls and crude oil; producers' access to capital; producers' finding and development costs of reserves; producers' desire and ability to obtain necessary permits in a timely manner; natural gas field characteristics and production performance; surface access, requirements to secure drilling rights and infrastructure issues; and capacity constraints on natural gas, crude oil and natural gas liquids infrastructure from the producing areas and our facilities. commodity prices have experienced significant volatility. drilling and production activity levels may vary across our geographic areas; however, a prolonged period of low commodity prices may reduce drilling and production activities across all areas. if we are not able to obtain new supplies to replace the natural decline in volumes from existing wells or because of competition, throughput on our gathering and transportation pipeline systems and the utilization rates of our processing and fractionation facilities would decline, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows, and our ability to pay cash dividends. continued development of supply sources outside of our operating regions could impact demand for our services. natural gas production areas outside of our operating regions near certain market areas that we serve may compete with natural gas originating in production areas connected to our systems. for example, the marcellus shale may cause natural gas in supply areas connected to our systems to be diverted to markets other than our traditional market areas and may affect capacity utilization adversely on our pipeline systems and our ability to renew or replace existing contracts at rates sufficient to maintain current revenues and cash flows. in addition, supply volumes from other natural gas production areas may compete with and displace volumes from the mid-continent, permian, rocky mountains and canadian supply sources in certain of our markets. in our natural gas gathering and processing segment, the development of reserves could move drilling rigs from our current service areas to other areas, which may reduce demand for our services. in our natural gas pipelines segment, the displacement of natural gas originating in supply areas connected to our pipeline systems by supply sources that are closer to the end-use markets could result in lower transportation revenues, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. market volatility and capital availability could affect adversely our business. the capital and global credit markets have experienced volatility and disruption in the past. in many cases during these periods, the capital markets have exerted downward pressure on equity values and reduced the credit capacity for certain companies. much of our business is capital intensive, and our ability to grow is dependent, in part, upon our ability to access capital at rates and on terms we determine to be attractive. similar or more severe levels of global market disruption and volatility may have an adverse effect on us resulting from, but not limited to, disruption of our access to capital and credit 18 table of contents markets, difficulty in obtaining financing necessary to expand facilities or acquire assets, increased financing costs and increasingly restrictive covenants. if we are unable to access capital at competitive rates, our strategy of enhancing the earnings potential of our existing assets, including through capital-growth projects and acquisitions of complementary assets or businesses, may be affected adversely. a number of factors could affect adversely our ability to access capital, including: (i) general economic conditions; (ii) capital market conditions; (iii) market prices for natural gas, ngls and other hydrocarbons; (iv) the overall health of the energy and related industries; (v) ability to maintain investment-grade credit ratings; (vi) share price and (vii) capital structure. if our ability to access capital becomes constrained significantly, our interest costs and cost of equity will likely increase and could affect adversely our financial condition and future results of operations. our operating results may be affected materially and adversely by unfavorable economic and market conditions. economic conditions worldwide have from time to time contributed to slowdowns in the crude oil and natural gas industry, as well as in the specific segments and markets in which we operate, resulting in reduced demand and increased price competition for our products and services. our operating results in one or more geographic regions may also be affected by uncertain or changing economic conditions within that region. volatility in commodity prices may have an impact on many of our customers, which, in turn, could have a negative impact on their ability to meet their obligations to us. if global economic and market conditions (including volatility in commodity markets) or economic conditions in the united states or other key markets remain uncertain or persist, spread or deteriorate further, we may experience material impacts on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. increased competition could have a significant adverse financial impact on our business. the natural gas and natural gas liquids industries are expected to remain highly competitive. the demand for natural gas and ngls is primarily a function of commodity prices, including prices for alternative energy sources, customer usage rates, weather, economic conditions and service costs. our ability to compete also depends on a number of other factors, including competition from other companies for our existing customers; the efficiency, quality and reliability of the services we provide; and competition for throughput at our gathering systems, pipelines, processing plants, fractionators and storage facilities. increased regulation of exploration and production activities, including hydraulic fracturing and disposal of waste water, could result in reductions or delays in drilling and completing new crude oil and natural gas wells, which could impact adversely our earnings by decreasing the volumes of natural gas and ngls transported on our or our joint ventures' natural gas and natural gas liquids pipelines. the natural gas industry is relying increasingly on natural gas supplies from nonconventional sources, such as shale and tight sands. natural gas extracted from these sources frequently requires hydraulic fracturing, which involves the pressurized injection of water, sand and chemicals into a geologic formation to stimulate crude oil and natural gas production. legislation or regulations placing restrictions on exploration and production activities, including hydraulic fracturing and disposal of waste water, could impose operational delays, increase operating costs and additional regulatory burdens on exploration and production operators, which could reduce their production of unprocessed natural gas and, in turn, affect adversely our revenues and results of operations by decreasing the volumes of unprocessed natural gas and ngls gathered, treated, processed, fractionated and transported on our or our joint ventures' natural gas and natural gas liquids pipelines, which primarily gather unprocessed natural gas from areas where the use of hydraulic fracturing is prevalent. in the competition for supply, we may have significant levels of excess capacity on our natural gas and natural gas liquids pipelines, processing, fractionation and storage assets. our natural gas and natural gas liquids pipelines, processing, fractionation and storage assets compete with other pipelines, processing, fractionation and storage facilities for natural gas and ngl supply delivered to the markets we serve. as a result of competition, we may have significant levels of uncontracted or discounted capacity on our pipelines, processing, fractionation and in our storage assets, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows. 19 table of contents we may not be able to replace, extend or add additional contracted volumes on favorable terms, or at all, which could affect our financial condition, the amount of cash available to pay dividends and our ability to grow. although many of our customers and suppliers are subject to long-term contracts, if we are unable to replace or extend such contracts, add additional customers and suppliers or otherwise increase the contracted volumes of natural gas and ngls provided to us by current producers, our financial condition, growth plans and the amount of cash available to pay dividends could be affected adversely. our ability to replace, extend or add additional customer or supplier contracts, or increase contracted volumes of natural gas and ngls from current producers, on favorable terms, or at all, is subject to a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: the level of existing and new competition in our businesses or from alternative fuel sources, such as electricity, fuel oils or nuclear energy; natural gas and ngl prices, demand, availability; and margins in our markets. we may face opposition to the construction or operation of our pipelines and facilities from various groups. we may face opposition to the construction or operation of our pipelines and facilities from environmental groups, landowners, tribal groups, local groups and other advocates. such opposition could take many forms, including organized protests, attempts to block or sabotage our construction activities or operations, intervention in regulatory or administrative proceedings involving our assets, or lawsuits or other actions designed to prevent, disrupt or delay the construction or operation of our assets and business. for example, constructing our pipelines often involves securing consent from individual landowners to access their property; one or more landowners may resist our efforts, which could lead to delays in the construction of assets for a period of time that is significantly longer than would have otherwise been the case. in addition, acts of sabotage or terrorism could cause significant damage or injury to people, property or the environment or lead to extended interruptions of our operations. any such event that delays or interrupts the construction or operation of assets or revenues generated by our existing operations, or which causes us to make significant expenditures not covered by insurance, could affect adversely our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and our share price. growing our business by constructing new pipelines and plants or making modifications to our existing facilities subjects us to construction risk and supply risks, should adequate natural gas or ngl supply be unavailable upon completion of the facilities. one of the ways we may grow our businesses is through the construction of new pipelines and new gathering, processing, storage and fractionation facilities and through modifications to our existing pipelines and existing gathering, processing, storage and fractionation facilities. the construction and modification of pipelines and gathering, processing, storage and fractionation facilities may face the following risks: projects may require significant capital expenditures, which may exceed our estimates, and involves numerous regulatory, environmental, political, legal and weather-related uncertainties; projects may increase demand for labor, materials and rights of way, which may, in turn, affect our costs and schedule; we may be unable to obtain new rights of way to connect new natural gas or ngl supplies to our existing gathering or transportation pipelines; if we undertake these projects, we may not be able to complete them on schedule or at the budgeted cost; our revenues may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project. for instance, if we build a new pipeline, the construction will occur over an extended period of time, and we will not receive any material increases in revenues until after completion of the project; we may construct facilities to capture anticipated future growth in production in a region in which anticipated production growth does not materialize; and we may be required to rely on third parties downstream of our facilities to have available capacity for our delivered natural gas or ngls, which may not yet be operational. as a result, new facilities may not be able to attract enough natural gas or ngls to achieve our expected investment return, which could affect materially and adversely our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. estimates of hydrocarbon reserves may be inaccurate which could result in lower than anticipated volumes. we may not be able to accurately estimate hydrocarbon reserves and production volumes expected to be delivered to us for a variety of reasons, including the unavailability of sufficiently detailed information and unanticipated changes in producers' expected drilling schedules. accordingly, we may not have accurate estimates of total reserves serviced by our assets, the 20 table of contents anticipated life of such reserves or the expected volumes to be produced from those reserves. in such event, if we are unable to secure additional sources, then the volumes that we gather or process in the future could be less than anticipated. a decline in such volumes could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. the volatility of natural gas, crude oil and ngl prices could affect adversely our earnings and cash flows. a significant portion of our revenues are derived from the sale of commodities that are received in conjunction with natural gas gathering and processing services, the transportation and storage of natural gas, and from the purchase and sale of ngls and ngl products. commodity prices have been volatile and are likely to continue to be so in the future. the prices we receive for our commodities are subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors beyond our control, including, but not limited to, the following: overall domestic and global economic conditions; relatively minor changes in the supply of, and demand for, domestic and foreign energy; market uncertainty; the availability and cost of third-party transportation, natural gas processing and fractionation capacity; the level of consumer product demand and storage inventory levels; ethane rejection; geopolitical conditions impacting supply and demand for natural gas, ngls and crude oil; weather conditions; domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; the price and availability of alternative fuels; speculation in the commodity futures markets; the effects of imports and exports on the price of natural gas, crude oil, ngl and liquefied natural gas; the effect of worldwide energy-conservation measures; the impact of new supplies, new pipelines, processing and fractionation facilities on location price differentials; and technology and improved efficiency impacting supply and demand for natural gas, ngls and crude oil. these external factors and the volatile nature of the energy markets make it difficult to reliably estimate future prices of commodities and the impact commodity price fluctuations have on our customers and their need for our services, which could have a material adverse effect on our earnings and cash flows. as commodity prices decline, we could be paid less for our commodities, thereby reducing our cash flows. in addition, crude oil, natural gas and ngl production could also decline due to lower prices. our operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions, which could affect materially and adversely our business and for which we may not be adequately insured. our operations are subject to all of the risks and hazards typically associated with the operation of natural gas and natural gas liquids gathering, transportation and distribution pipelines, storage facilities and processing and fractionation plants. operating risks include, but are not limited to, leaks, pipeline ruptures, the breakdown or failure of equipment or processes and the performance of pipeline facilities below expected levels of capacity and efficiency. other operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions include adverse weather conditions, accidents, explosions, fires, the collision of equipment with our pipeline facilities (for example, this may occur if a third party were to perform excavation or construction work near our facilities) and catastrophic events such as tornados, hurricanes, earthquakes, floods or other similar events beyond our control. it is also possible that our facilities could be direct targets or indirect casualties of an act of terrorism. a casualty occurrence might result in injury or loss of life, extensive property damage or environmental damage. liabilities incurred and interruptions to the operations of our pipeline or other facilities caused by such an event could reduce revenues generated by us and increase expenses, thereby impairing our ability to meet our obligations. insurance proceeds may not be adequate to cover all liabilities or expenses incurred or revenues lost, and we are not fully insured against all risks inherent to our business. as a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain insurance policies can increase substantially, and, in some instances, certain insurance may become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. consequently, we may not be able to renew existing insurance policies or purchase other desirable insurance on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. if we were to incur a significant liability for which we were not fully insured, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, cash flows and results of operations. further, the proceeds of any such insurance may not be paid in a timely manner and may be insufficient if such an event were to occur. 21 table of contents we may not be able to develop and execute growth projects and acquire new assets, which could result in reduced dividends to our shareholders. our ability to maintain and grow our dividends paid to our shareholders depends on the growth of our existing businesses and strategic acquisitions. our ability to make strategic acquisitions and investments will depend on: the extent to which acquisitions and investment opportunities become available; our success in bidding for the opportunities that do become available; regulatory approval, if required, of the acquisitions or investments on favorable terms; and our access to capital, including our ability to use our equity in acquisitions or investments, and the terms upon which we obtain capital. our ability to develop and execute growth projects will depend on our ability to implement business development opportunities and finance such activities on economically acceptable terms. if we are unable to make strategic acquisitions and investments, integrate successfully businesses that we acquire with our existing business, or develop and execute our growth projects, our future growth will be limited, which could impact adversely our results of operations and cash flows and, accordingly, result in reduced cash dividends over time. acquisitions that appear to be accretive may nevertheless reduce our cash from operations on a per-share basis. any acquisition involves potential risks that may include, among other things: inaccurate assumptions about volumes, revenues and costs, including potential synergies; an inability to integrate successfully the businesses we acquire; decrease in our liquidity as a result of our using a significant portion of our available cash or borrowing capacity to finance the acquisition; a significant increase in our interest expense and/or financial leverage if we incur additional debt to finance the acquisition; the assumption of unknown liabilities for which we are not indemnified, our indemnity is inadequate or our insurance policies may exclude from coverage; an inability to hire, train or retain qualified personnel to manage and operate the acquired business and assets; limitations on rights to indemnity from the seller; inaccurate assumptions about the overall costs of equity or debt; the diversion of management's and employees' attention from other business concerns; unforeseen difficulties operating in new product areas or new geographic areas; increased regulatory burdens; customer or key employee losses at an acquired business; and increased regulatory requirements. if we consummate any future acquisitions, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly, and investors will not have the opportunity to evaluate the economic, financial and other relevant information that we will consider in determining the application of our resources to future acquisitions. mergers between our customers, suppliers and competitors could result in lower volumes being gathered, processed, fractionated, transported or stored on our assets, thereby reducing the amount of cash we generate. mergers between our existing customers, suppliers and our competitors could provide strong economic incentives for the combined entities to utilize their existing gathering, processing, fractionation and/or transportation systems instead of ours in those markets where the systems compete. as a result, we could lose some or all of the volumes and associated revenues from these counterparties, and we could experience difficulty in replacing those lost volumes. a reduction in volumes could result not only in lower net income but also in a decline in cash flows, which would reduce our ability to pay cash dividends to our shareholders. we do not own all of the land on which our pipelines and facilities are located, and we lease certain facilities and equipment, which could disrupt our operations. we do not own all of the land on which certain of our pipelines and facilities are located, and we are, therefore, subject to the risk of increased costs to maintain necessary land use. we obtain the rights to construct and operate certain of our pipelines and related facilities on land owned by third parties and governmental agencies for a specific period of time. our loss of these 22 table of contents rights, through our inability to renew right-of-way contracts on acceptable terms or increased costs to renew such rights, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. terrorist attacks directed at our facilities could affect adversely our business. the united states government has issued warnings that energy assets, specifically the nation's pipeline infrastructure, may be future targets of terrorist organizations. these developments may subject our operations to increased risks. any future terrorist attack that may target our facilities, those of our customers and, in some cases, those of other pipelines, could have a material adverse effect on our business. any reduction in our credit ratings could affect materially and adversely our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. our long-term debt and our commercial paper program have been assigned an investment-grade credit rating of baa3 and prime-3 , respectively, by moody's and bbb and a-2 , respectively, by s&amp;p. we cannot provide assurance that any of our current ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances in the future so warrant. specifically, if moody's or s&amp;p were to downgrade our long-term debt or our commercial paper rating, particularly below investment grade, our borrowing costs would increase, which would affect adversely our financial results, and our potential pool of investors and funding sources could decrease. ratings from credit agencies are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our securities. each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. holders of our common stock may not receive dividends in the amount identified in guidance, or any dividends at all. we may not have sufficient cash each quarter to pay dividends or maintain current or expected levels of dividends. the actual amount of cash we pay in the form of dividends may fluctuate from quarter to quarter and will depend on various factors, some of which are beyond our control, including our working capital needs, our ability to borrow, the restrictions contained in our indentures and credit facility, our debt service requirements and the cost of acquisitions, if any. a failure either to pay dividends or to pay dividends at expected levels could result in a loss of investor confidence, reputational damage and a decrease in the value of our stock price. our operating cash flows are derived partially from cash distributions we receive from our unconsolidated affiliates. our operating cash flows are derived partially from cash distributions we receive from our unconsolidated affiliates, as discussed in note m of the notes to consolidated financial statements. the amount of cash that our unconsolidated affiliates can distribute principally depends upon the amount of cash flows these affiliates generate from their respective operations, which may fluctuate from quarter to quarter. we do not have any direct control over the cash distribution policies of our unconsolidated affiliates. this lack of control may contribute to us not having sufficient available cash each quarter to continue paying dividends at the current levels. additionally, the amount of cash that we have available for cash dividends depends primarily upon our cash flows, including working capital borrowings, and is not solely a function of profitability, which will be affected by noncash items such as depreciation, amortization and provisions for asset impairments. as a result, we may be able to pay cash dividends during periods when we record losses and may not be able to pay cash dividends during periods when we record net income. we are exposed to the credit risk of our customers or counterparties, and our credit risk management may not be adequate to protect against such risk. we are subject to the risk of loss resulting from nonpayment and/or nonperformance by our customers and counterparties. our customers or counterparties may experience rapid deterioration of their financial condition as a result of changing market conditions, commodity prices or financial difficulties that could impact their creditworthiness or ability to pay us for our services. we assess the creditworthiness of our customers and counterparties and obtain collateral or contractual terms as we deem appropriate. we cannot, however, predict to what extent our business may be impacted by deteriorating market or financial conditions, including possible declines in our customers' and counterparties' creditworthiness. our customers and counterparties may not perform or adhere to our existing or future contractual arrangements. to the extent our customers and counterparties are in financial distress or commence bankruptcy proceedings, contracts with them may be subject to renegotiation or rejection under applicable provisions of the united states bankruptcy code. if we fail to assess adequately the creditworthiness of existing or future customers and counterparties any material nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers and counterparties due to inability or unwillingness to perform or adhere to contractual arrangements could have a 23 table of contents material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay cash dividends to our shareholders. our primary market areas are located in the mid-continent, rocky mountain, permian basin and gulf coast regions of the u.s. our counterparties are primarily major integrated and independent exploration and production, pipeline, marketing and petrochemical companies. therefore our counterparties may be similarly affected by changes in economic, regulatory or other factors that may affect our overall credit risk. our established risk-management policies and procedures may not be effective, and employees may violate our risk-management policies. we have developed and implemented a comprehensive set of policies and procedures that involve both our senior management and our audit committee to assist us in managing risks associated with, among other things, the marketing, trading and risk-management activities associated with our business segments. our risk-management policies and procedures are intended to align strategies, processes, people, information technology and business knowledge so that risk is managed throughout the organization. as conditions change and become more complex, current risk measures may fail to assess adequately the relevant risk due to changes in the market and the presence of risks previously unknown to us. additionally, if employees fail to adhere to our policies and procedures or if our policies and procedures are not effective, potentially because of future conditions or risks outside of our control, we may be exposed to greater risk than we had intended. ineffective risk-management policies and procedures or violation of risk-management policies and procedures could have an adverse effect on our earnings, financial position or cash flows. our businesses are subject to market and credit risks. we are exposed to market and credit risks in all of our operations. to reduce the impact of commodity price fluctuations, we may use derivative instruments, such as swaps, puts, futures and forwards, to hedge anticipated purchases and sales of natural gas, ngls, crude oil and firm transportation commitments. interest-rate swaps are also used to manage interest-rate risk. however, derivative instruments do not eliminate the risks. specifically, such risks include commodity price changes, market supply shortages, interest-rate changes and counterparty default. the impact of these variables could result in our inability to fulfill contractual obligations, significantly higher energy or fuel costs relative to corresponding sales contracts, or increased interest expense. we do not hedge fully against commodity price changes, seasonal price differentials, product price differentials or location price differentials. this could result in decreased revenues, increased costs and lower margins, affecting adversely our results of operations. certain of our businesses are exposed to market risk and the impact of market fluctuations in natural gas, ngls and crude oil prices. market risk refers to the risk of loss of cash flows and future earnings arising from adverse changes in commodity prices. our primary commodity price exposures arise from: the value of the commodities sold under pop with fee contracts of which we retain a portion of the sales proceeds; the price differentials between the individual ngl products with respect to our ngl transportation and fractionation agreements; the location price differentials in the price of natural gas and ngls with respect to our natural gas and ngl transportation businesses; the seasonal price differentials in natural gas and ngls related to our storage operations; and the fuel costs and the value of the retained fuel in-kind in our natural gas pipelines and storage operations. to manage the risk from market price fluctuations in natural gas, ngls and crude oil prices, we may use derivative instruments such as swaps, puts, futures, forwards and options. however, we do not hedge fully against commodity price changes, and we therefore retain some exposure to market risk. accordingly, any adverse changes to commodity prices could result in decreased revenue and increased costs. our use of financial instruments and physical-forward transactions to hedge market-risk exposure to commodity price and interest-rate fluctuations may result in reduced income. we utilize financial instruments and physical-forward transactions to mitigate our exposure to interest rate and commodity price fluctuations. hedging instruments that are used to reduce our exposure to interest-rate fluctuations could expose us to risk of financial loss where we may contract for fixed-rate swap instruments to hedge variable-rate instruments and the fixed 24 table of contents rate exceeds the variable rate. hedging arrangements for forecasted sales are used to reduce our exposure to commodity price fluctuations and limit the benefit we would otherwise receive if market prices for natural gas, crude oil and ngls exceed the stated price in the hedge instrument for these commodities. changes in interest rates could affect adversely our business. we use both fixed and variable rate debt, and we are exposed to market risk due to the floating interest rates on our short-term borrowings. our results of operations, cash flows and financial position could be affected adversely by significant fluctuations in interest rates from current levels. from time to time we use interest-rate derivatives to hedge interest obligations on specific debt issuances, including anticipated debt issuances. in july 2017, the head of the united kingdom financial conduct authority announced the desire to phase out the use of libor by the end of 2021. in addition, the u.s. federal reserve, in conjunction with the alternative reference rates committee, a steering committee comprised of large us financial institutions, is considering replacing u.s. dollar libor with the secured overnight financing rate (sofr), a new index supported by short-term treasury repurchase agreements. although there have been some issuances utilizing sofr, it is unknown whether this alternative reference rate will attain market acceptance as a replacement for libor. our $2.5 billion credit agreement and our $1.5 billion term loan agreement include language to determine a replacement rate for libor, if necessary. however, if libor ceases to exist, we may need to renegotiate future agreements, if any, extending beyond 2021 that utilize libor as a factor in determining the interest rate to replace libor with the new standard that is established. there is currently no definitive information regarding the future utilization of libor or of any particular replacement rate. as such, the potential effect on us cannot yet be determined. demand for natural gas and for certain of our ngl products and services is highly weather sensitive and seasonal. the demand for natural gas and for certain of our ngl products, such as propane, is weather sensitive and seasonal, with a portion of revenues derived from sales for heating during the winter months. weather conditions influence directly the volume of, among other things, natural gas and propane delivered to customers. deviations in weather from normal levels and the seasonal nature of certain of our segments can create variations in earnings and short-term cash requirements. energy efficiency and technological advances may affect the demand for natural gas and ngls and affect adversely our operating results. more strict local, state and federal energy-conservation measures in the future or technological advances in heating, including installation of improved insulation and the development of more efficient furnaces, energy generation or other devices could affect the demand for natural gas and ngls and affect adversely our results of operations and cash flows. a breach of information security, including a cybersecurity attack, or failure of one or more key information technology or operational systems, or those of third parties, may affect adversely our operations, financial results or reputation. our businesses are dependent upon our operational systems to process a large amount of data and complex transactions. the various uses of these information technology systems, networks and services include, but are not limited to: controlling our plants and pipelines with industrial control systems including supervisory control and data acquisition (scada); collecting and storing customer, employee, investor and other stakeholder information and data; processing transactions; summarizing and reporting results of operations; hosting, processing and sharing confidential and proprietary research, business plans and financial information; complying with regulatory, legal or tax requirements; providing data security; and handling other processing necessary to manage our business. if any of our systems are damaged, fail to function properly or otherwise become unavailable, we may incur substantial costs to repair or replace them and may experience loss or corruption of critical data and interruptions or delays in our ability to perform critical functions, which could affect adversely our business and results of operations. our financial results could also be affected adversely if an employee causes our operational systems to fail, either as a result of inadvertent error or by deliberately tampering with or manipulating our operational systems. in addition, dependence upon automated systems may 25 table of contents further increase the risk that operational system flaws, employee tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect. due to increased technology advances, we have become more reliant on technology to help increase efficiency in our businesses. we use software to help manage and operate our businesses, and this may subject us to increased risks. in recent years, there has been a rise in the number of cyberattacks on companies' network and information systems by both state-sponsored and criminal organizations, and as a result, the risks associated with such an event continue to increase. a significant failure, compromise, breach or interruption in our systems could result in a disruption of our operations, physical damages, customer dissatisfaction, damage to our reputation and a loss of customers or revenues. if any such failure, interruption or similar event results in the improper disclosure of information maintained in our information systems and networks or those of our vendors, including personnel, customer and vendor information, we could also be subject to liability under relevant contractual obligations and laws and regulations protecting personal data and privacy. efforts by us and our vendors to develop, implement and maintain security measures may not be successful in preventing these events from occurring, and any network and information systems-related events could require us to expend significant resources to remedy such event. cybersecurity, physical security and the continued development and enhancement of our controls, processes and practices designed to protect our enterprise, information systems and data from attack, damage or unauthorized access and to identify and appropriately report cyberattacks, remain a priority for us. although we believe that we have robust information security procedures and other safeguards in place, as cyberthreats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend additional resources to continue to enhance our information security measures and/or to investigate and remediate information security vulnerabilities. cyberattacks against us or others in our industry could result in additional regulations. current efforts by the federal government, such as the improving critical infrastructure cybersecurity executive order, and any potential future regulations could lead to increased regulatory compliance costs, insurance coverage cost or capital expenditures. we cannot predict the potential impact to our business or the energy industry resulting from additional regulations. if we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to report accurately our financial results or prevent fraud. as a result, current and potential holders of our equity and debt securities could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and cost of capital. effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports, prevent fraud and operate successfully as a public company. we cannot be certain that our efforts to maintain our internal controls will be successful, that we will be able to maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future or that we will be able to continue to comply with our obligations under section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. any failure to maintain effective internal controls, or difficulties encountered in implementing or improving our internal controls, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. ineffective internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which would likely have a negative effect on the trading price of our equity interests. our employees or directors may engage in misconduct or other improper activities, including noncompliance with regulatory standards and requirements. as with all companies, we are exposed to the risk of employee fraud or other misconduct. our board of directors has adopted a code of business conduct and ethics that applies to our directors, officers (including our principal executive and financial officers, principal accounting officer, controllers and other persons performing similar functions) and all other employees. we require all directors, officers and employees to adhere to our code of business conduct and ethics in addressing the legal and ethical issues encountered in conducting their work for our company. our code of business conduct and ethics requires, among other things, that our directors, officers and employees avoid conflicts of interest, comply with all applicable laws and other legal requirements, conduct business in an honest and ethical manner and otherwise act with integrity and in our company's best interest. all directors, officers and employees are required to report any conduct that they believe to be an actual or apparent violation of our code of business conduct and ethics. however, it is not always possible to identify and deter misconduct, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in controlling unknown or unmanaged risks or losses or in protecting us from governmental investigations or other actions or lawsuits stemming from a failure to comply with such laws or regulations. if any such actions are instituted against us, and we are not successful in defending ourselves or asserting our rights, those actions could have a material and adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. 26 table of contents pipeline safety laws and regulations may impose significant costs and liabilities. pipeline safety legislation that was signed into law in 2012, the 2011 pipeline safety act, directed the secretary of transportation to promulgate new safety regulations for natural gas and hazardous liquids pipelines, including expanded integrity management requirements, automatic or remote-controlled valve use, excess flow valve use, leak detection system installation, testing to confirm the material strength of certain pipelines and operator verification of records confirming the maximum allowable pressure of certain gas transmission pipelines. the 2011 pipeline safety act also increased the maximum penalty for violation of pipeline safety regulations from $0.1 million to $0.2 million per violation per day and also from $1 million to $2 million for a related series of violations. the 2011 pipeline safety act, the protecting our infrastructure of pipelines and enhancing safety act or rules implementing such acts could cause us to incur capital and operating expenditures for pipeline replacements or repairs, additional monitoring equipment or more frequent inspections or testing of our pipeline facilities, preventive or mitigating measures and other tasks that could result in higher operating costs or capital expenditures as necessary to comply with such standards, which costs could be significant. see further discussion in the regulatory, environmental and safety matters section. compliance with environmental regulations that we are subject to may be difficult and costly. we are subject to a variety of historical preservation and environmental laws and/or regulations that affect many aspects of our present and future operations. regulated activities include, but are not limited to, those involving air emissions, storm water and wastewater discharges, handling and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes, wetlands and waterways preservation, cultural resources protection, hazardous materials transportation, and pipeline and facility construction. these laws and regulations require us to obtain and/or comply with a wide variety of environmental clearances, registrations, licenses, permits and other approvals. failure to comply with these laws, regulations, licenses and permits may expose us to fines, penalties and/or interruptions in our operations that could be material to our results of operations. for example, if a leak or spill of hazardous substances or petroleum products occurs from our pipelines or facilities that we own, operate or otherwise use, we could be held jointly and severally liable for all resulting liabilities, including response, investigation and clean-up costs, which could affect materially our results of operations and cash flows. in addition, emissions controls and/or other regulatory or permitting mandates under the federal clean air act and other similar federal and state laws could require unexpected capital expenditures at our facilities. we cannot assure that existing environmental statutes and regulations will not be revised or that new regulations will not be adopted or become applicable to us. revised or additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, particularly if those costs are not fully recoverable from customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. our operations are subject to federal and state laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, which may expose us to significant costs and liabilities. the risk of incurring substantial environmental costs and liabilities is inherent in our business. our operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into, or otherwise relating to the protection of, the environment. examples of these laws include: the clean air act and analogous state laws that impose obligations related to air emissions; the clean water act and analogous state laws that regulate discharge of wastewater from our facilities to state and federal waters; the federal comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act (cercla) and analogous state laws that regulate the cleanup of hazardous substances that may have been released at properties currently or previously owned or operated by us or locations to which we have sent waste for disposal; and the federal resource conservation and recovery act and analogous state laws that impose requirements for the handling and discharge of solid and hazardous waste from our facilities. various federal and state governmental authorities, including the epa, have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them. violators are subject to administrative, civil and criminal penalties, including civil fines, injunctions or both. joint and several, strict liability may be incurred without regard to fault under the cercla, resource conservation and recovery act and analogous state laws for the remediation of contaminated areas. there is an inherent risk of incurring environmental costs and liabilities in our business due to our handling of the products we gather, transport, process and store, air emissions related to our operations, past industry operations and waste disposal 27 table of contents practices, some of which may be material. private parties, including the owners of properties through which our pipeline systems pass, may have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as to seek damages for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage arising from our operations. some sites we operate are located near current or former third-party hydrocarbon storage and processing operations, and there is a risk that contamination has migrated from those sites to ours. in addition, increasingly strict laws, regulations and enforcement policies could increase significantly our compliance costs and the cost of any remediation that may become necessary, some of which may be material. additional information is included under item 1, business, under regulatory, environmental and safety matters and in note n of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this annual report. our insurance may not cover all environmental risks and costs or may not provide sufficient coverage in the event an environmental claim is made against us. our business may be affected materially and adversely by increased costs due to stricter pollution-control requirements or liabilities resulting from noncompliance with required operating or other regulatory permits. new or revised environmental regulations might also affect materially and adversely our products and activities, and federal and state agencies could impose additional safety requirements, all of which could affect materially our profitability. we may face significant costs to comply with the regulation of ghg emissions. ghg emissions originate primarily from combustion engine exhaust, heater exhaust and fugitive methane gas emissions. international, federal, regional and/or state legislative and/or regulatory initiatives may attempt to control or limit ghg emissions, including initiatives directed at issues associated with climate change. various federal and state legislative proposals have been introduced to regulate the emission of ghgs, particularly carbon dioxide and methane, and the united states supreme court has ruled that carbon dioxide is a pollutant subject to regulation by the epa. in addition, there have been international efforts seeking legally binding reductions in emissions of ghgs. we believe it is likely that future governmental legislation and/or regulation may require us either to limit ghg emissions associated with our operations or to purchase allowances for such emissions. however, we cannot predict precisely what form these future regulations will take, the stringency of the regulations or when they will become effective. several legislative bills have been introduced in the united states congress that would require carbon dioxide emission reductions. previously considered proposals have included, among other things, limitations on the amount of ghgs that can be emitted (so called caps ) together with systems of permitted emissions allowances. these proposals could require us to reduce emissions, even though the technology is not currently available for efficient reduction, or to purchase allowances for such emissions. emissions also could be taxed independently of limits. in addition to activities on the federal level, state and regional initiatives could also lead to the regulation of ghg emissions sooner than and/or independent of federal regulation. these regulations could be more stringent than any federal legislation that may be adopted. future legislation and/or regulation designed to reduce ghg emissions could make some of our activities uneconomic to maintain or operate. further, we may not be able to pass on the higher costs to our customers or recover all costs related to complying with ghg regulatory requirements. our future results of operations, cash flows or financial condition could be affected adversely if such costs are not recovered through regulated rates or otherwise passed on to our customers. we continue to monitor legislative and regulatory developments in this area and otherwise take efforts to limit ghg emissions from our facilities, including methane. although the regulation of ghg emissions may have a material impact on our operations and rates, we believe it is premature to attempt to quantify the potential costs of the impacts. we may be subject to physical and financial risks associated with climate change. the threat of global climate change may create physical and financial risks to our business. our customers' energy needs vary with weather conditions, primarily temperature and humidity. for residential customers, heating and cooling represent their largest energy use. to the extent weather conditions may be affected by climate change, customers' energy use could increase or decrease depending on the duration and magnitude of any changes. increased energy use due to weather changes may require us to invest in more pipelines and other infrastructure to serve increased demand. a decrease in energy use due to weather changes may affect our financial condition, through decreased revenues. extreme weather conditions in general require more system backup, adding to costs, and can contribute to increased system stresses, including service interruptions. weather conditions outside of our operating territory could also have an impact on our revenues. severe weather impacts our operating territories primarily through hurricanes, thunderstorms, tornados and snow or ice storms. to the extent the frequency of extreme weather events increases, this could increase our cost of providing service. we may not be able to pass on the higher costs to our customers or recover all costs related to mitigating these physical risks. to the extent financial markets 28 table of contents view climate change and emissions of ghgs as a financial risk, this could affect negatively our ability to access capital markets or cause us to receive less favorable terms and conditions in future financings. our business could be affected by the potential for lawsuits against ghg emitters, based on links drawn between ghg emissions and climate change. our business is subject to regulatory oversight and potential penalties. the energy industry historically has been subject to heavy state and federal regulation that extends to many aspects of our businesses and operations, including: rates, operating terms and conditions of service; the types of services we may offer our counterparties; construction of new facilities; the integrity, safety and security of facilities and operations; acquisition, extension or abandonment of services or facilities; reporting and information posting requirements; maintenance of accounts and records; and relationships with affiliate companies involved in all aspects of the natural gas and energy businesses. compliance with these requirements can be costly and burdensome. future changes to laws, regulations and policies in these areas may impair our ability to compete for business or to recover costs and may increase the cost and burden of operations. we cannot guarantee that state or federal regulators will authorize any projects or acquisitions that we may propose in the future. moreover, there can be no guarantee that, if granted, any such authorizations will be made in a timely manner or will be free from potentially burdensome conditions. failure to comply with all applicable state or federal statutes, rules and regulations and orders could bring substantial penalties and fines. for example, under the energy policy act of 2005, the ferc has civil penalty authority under the natural gas act to impose penalties for current violations of up to $1 million per day for each violation. finally, we cannot give any assurance regarding future state or federal regulations under which we will operate or the effect such regulations could have on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our regulated pipelines' transportation rates are subject to review and possible adjustment by federal and state regulators. under the natural gas act, which is applicable to interstate natural gas pipelines, and the interstate commerce act, which is applicable to crude oil and natural gas liquids pipelines, our interstate transportation rates, which are regulated by the ferc, must be just and reasonable and not unduly discriminatory. if we were permitted to raise our tariff rates for a particular pipeline, there might be significant delay between the time the tariff rate increase is approved and the time that the rate increase actually goes into effect. furthermore, competition from other pipeline systems may prevent us from raising our tariff rates even if regulatory agencies permit us to do so. the regulatory agencies that regulate our systems periodically implement new rules, regulations and terms and conditions of services subject to their jurisdiction. new initiatives or orders may affect adversely the rates charged for our services. finally, shippers may protest our pipeline tariff filings, and the ferc and or state regulatory agency may investigate tariff rates. further, the ferc may order refunds of amounts collected under newly filed rates that are determined by the ferc to be in excess of a just and reasonable level. in addition, shippers may challenge by complaint the lawfulness of tariff rates that have become final and effective. the ferc and/or state regulatory agencies also may investigate tariff rates absent shipper complaint. any finding that approved rates exceed a just and reasonable level on the natural gas pipelines would take effect prospectively. in a complaint proceeding challenging natural gas liquids pipeline rates, if the ferc determines existing rates exceed a just and reasonable level, it could require the payment of reparations to complaining shippers for up to two years prior to the complaint. any such action by the ferc or a comparable action by a state regulatory agency could affect adversely our pipeline businesses' ability to charge rates that would cover future increases in costs, or even to continue to collect rates that cover current costs, and provide for a reasonable return. we can provide no assurance that our pipeline systems will be able to recover all of their costs through existing or future rates. 29 table of contents we are subject to comprehensive energy regulation by governmental agencies, and the recovery of our costs are dependent on regulatory action. federal, state and local agencies have jurisdiction over many of our activities, including regulation by the ferc of our interstate pipeline assets. the profitability of our regulated operations is dependent on our ability to pass through costs related to providing energy and other commodities to our customers by filing periodic rate cases. the regulatory environment applicable to our regulated businesses could impair our ability to recover costs historically absorbed by our customers. we are unable to predict the impact that the future regulatory activities of these agencies will have on our operating results. changes in regulations or the imposition of additional regulations could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. our regulated pipeline companies have recorded certain assets that may not be recoverable from our customers. accounting policies for ferc-regulated companies permit certain assets that result from the regulated rate-making process to be recorded on our balance sheet that could not be recorded under gaap for nonregulated entities. we consider factors such as regulatory changes and the impact of competition to determine the probability of future recovery of these assets. if we determine future recovery is no longer probable, we would be required to write off the regulatory assets at that time. a shortage of skilled labor may make it difficult for us to maintain labor productivity and competitive costs, which could affect operations and cash flows available for dividends to our shareholders. our operations require skilled and experienced workers with proficiency in multiple tasks. in recent years, a shortage of workers trained in various skills associated with the midstream energy business has caused us to conduct certain operations without full staff, thus hiring outside resources, which may decrease productivity and increase costs. this shortage of trained workers is the result of experienced workers reaching retirement age and increased competition for workers in certain areas, combined with the challenges of attracting new, qualified workers to the midstream energy industry. this shortage of skilled labor could continue over an extended period. if the shortage of experienced labor continues or worsens, it could have an adverse impact on our labor productivity and costs and our ability to expand production in the event there is an increase in the demand for our products and services, which could affect adversely our operations and cash flows available for dividends to our shareholders. we are subject to strict regulations at many of our facilities regarding employee safety, and failure to comply with these regulations could affect adversely our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. the workplaces associated with our facilities are subject to the requirements of osha and comparable state statutes that regulate the protection of the health and safety of workers. the failure to comply with osha requirements or general industry standards, including keeping adequate records or monitoring occupational exposure to regulated substances, could expose us to civil or criminal liability, enforcement actions, and regulatory fines and penalties and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. measurement adjustments on our pipeline system may be impacted materially by changes in estimation, type of commodity and other factors. natural gas and natural gas liquids measurement adjustments occur as part of the normal operating conditions associated with our assets. the quantification and resolution of measurement adjustments are complicated by several factors including: (i) the significant quantities ( i.e. , thousands) of measurement equipment that we use throughout our natural gas and natural gas liquids systems, primarily around our gathering and processing assets; (ii) varying qualities of natural gas in the streams gathered and processed through our systems and the mixed nature of ngls gathered and fractionated; and (iii) variances in measurement that are inherent in metering technologies. each of these factors may contribute to measurement adjustments that can occur on our systems, which could negatively affect our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. many of our pipeline and storage assets have been in service for several decades. many of our pipeline and storage assets are designed as long-lived assets. over time the age of these assets could result in increased maintenance or remediation expenditures and an increased risk of product releases and associated costs and liabilities. any significant increase in these expenditures, costs or liabilities could affect materially and adversely our results of operations, financial position or cash flows, as well as our ability to pay cash dividends. 30 table of contents we may be unable to cause our joint ventures to take or not to take certain actions unless some or all of our joint-venture participants agree. we participate in several joint ventures. due to the nature of some of these arrangements, each participant in these joint ventures has made substantial investments in the joint venture and, accordingly, has required that the relevant charter documents contain certain features designed to provide each participant with the opportunity to participate in the management of the joint venture and to protect its investment, as well as any other assets that may be substantially dependent on or otherwise affected by the activities of that joint venture. these participation and protective features customarily include a corporate governance structure that requires at least a majority-in-interest vote to authorize many basic activities and requires a greater voting interest (sometimes up to 100 percent) to authorize more significant activities. examples of these more significant activities are large expenditures or contractual commitments, the construction or acquisition of assets, borrowing money or otherwise raising capital, transactions with affiliates of a joint-venture participant, litigation and transactions not in the ordinary course of business, among others. thus, without the concurrence of joint-venture participants with enough voting interests, we may be unable to cause any of our joint ventures to take or not to take certain actions, even though those actions may be in the best interest of us or the particular joint venture. moreover, any joint-venture owner generally may sell, transfer or otherwise modify its ownership interest in a joint venture, whether in a transaction involving third parties or the other joint-venture owners. any such transaction could result in us being required to partner with different or additional parties. we do not operate all of our joint-venture assets nor do we employ directly all of the persons responsible for providing us with administrative, operating and management services. this reliance on others to operate joint-venture assets and to provide other services could affect adversely our business and operating results. we rely on others to provide administrative, operating and management services for certain of our joint-venture assets. we have a limited ability to control the operations and the associated costs of such operations. the success of these operations depends on a number of factors that are outside our control, including the competence and financial resources of the provider. some or all of these services may be outsourced to third parties, and a failure to perform by these third-party providers could lead to delays in or interruptions of these services. we may have to contract elsewhere for these services, which may cost more than we are currently paying. in addition, we may not be able to obtain the same level or kind of service or retain or receive the services in a timely manner, which may impact our ability to perform under our contracts and negatively affect our business and operating results. our reliance on others to operate joint-venture assets, together with our limited ability to control certain costs, could harm our business and results of operations. an impairment of goodwill, long-lived assets, including intangible assets, and equity-method investments could reduce our earnings. goodwill is recorded when the purchase price of a business exceeds the fair market value of the tangible and separately measurable intangible net assets. gaap requires us to test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis or when events or circumstances occur indicating that goodwill might be impaired. long-lived assets, including intangible assets with finite useful lives, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. for the investments we account for under the equity method, the impairment test considers whether the fair value of the equity investment as a whole, not the underlying net assets, has declined and whether that decline is other than temporary. for example, if a low commodity price environment persisted for a prolonged period, it could result in lower volumes delivered to our systems and impairments of our assets or equity-method investments. if we determine that an impairment is indicated, we would be required to take an immediate noncash charge to earnings with a correlative effect on equity and balance sheet leverage as measured by consolidated debt to total capitalization. our indebtedness and guarantee obligations could impair our financial condition and our ability to fulfill our obligations. as of december 31, 2018 , we had total indebtedness of $9.4 billion . our indebtedness and guarantee obligations could have significant consequences. for example, they could: make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to senior notes and other indebtedness due to the increased debt-service obligations, which could, in turn, result in an event of default on such other indebtedness or the senior notes; impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general business purposes; 31 table of contents diminish our ability to withstand a downturn in our business or the economy; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to debt-service payments, reducing the availability of cash for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, dividends or general corporate purposes; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared with our competitors that have proportionately less debt and fewer guarantee obligations. we are not prohibited under the indentures governing the senior notes from incurring additional indebtedness, but our debt agreements do subject us to certain operational limitations summarized in the next paragraph. if we incur significant additional indebtedness, it could worsen the negative consequences mentioned above and could affect adversely our ability to repay our other indebtedness. our $2.5 billion credit agreement and $1.5 billion term loan agreement contain provisions that restrict our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to expand or pursue our business activities. for example, certain of these agreements contain provisions that, among other things, limit our ability to make loans or investments, make material changes to the nature of our business, merge, consolidate or engage in asset sales, grant liens or make negative pledges. certain agreements also require us to maintain certain financial ratios, which limit the amount of additional indebtedness we can incur, as described in the liquidity and capital resources section of part ii, item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation. these restrictions could result in higher costs of borrowing and impair our ability to generate additional cash. future financing agreements we may enter into may contain similar or more restrictive covenants. if we are unable to meet our debt-service obligations, we could be forced to restructure or refinance our indebtedness, seek additional equity capital or sell assets. we may be unable to obtain financing or sell assets on satisfactory terms, or at all. the right to receive payments on our outstanding debt securities and subsidiary guarantees is unsecured and will be effectively subordinated to our existing and future secured indebtedness as well as to any existing and future indebtedness of our subsidiaries that do not guarantee the senior notes. our debt securities are effectively subordinated to claims of our secured creditors, and the guarantees are effectively subordinated to the claims of our secured creditors as well as the secured creditors of our subsidiary guarantors. although many of our operating subsidiaries have guaranteed such debt securities, the guarantees are subject to release under certain circumstances, and we may have subsidiaries that are not guarantors. in that case, the debt securities effectively would be subordinated to the claims of all creditors, including trade creditors and tort claimants, of our subsidiaries that are not guarantors. in the event of the insolvency, bankruptcy, liquidation, reorganization, dissolution or winding up of the business of a subsidiary that is not a guarantor, creditors of that subsidiary would generally have the right to be paid in full before any distribution is made to us or the holders of the debt securities. an event of default may require us to offer to repurchase certain of our and oneok partners' senior notes or may impair our ability to access capital. the indentures governing certain of our and oneok partners' senior notes include an event of default upon the acceleration of other indebtedness of $15 million or more for certain of our senior notes or $100 million or more for certain of our senior notes and oneok partners' senior notes. such events of default would entitle the trustee or the holders of 25 percent in aggregate principal amount of our and oneok partners' outstanding senior notes to declare those senior notes immediately due and payable in full. we may not have sufficient cash on hand to repurchase and repay any accelerated senior notes, which may cause us to borrow money under our credit facility or seek alternative financing sources to finance the repurchases and repayment. we could also face difficulties accessing capital or our borrowing costs could increase, impacting our ability to obtain financing for acquisitions or capital expenditures, to refinance indebtedness and to fulfill our debt obligations. a court may use fraudulent conveyance considerations to avoid or subordinate the cross guarantees of our and oneok partners' indebtedness. various applicable fraudulent conveyance laws have been enacted for the protection of creditors. oneok, oneok partners and the intermediate partnership have cross guarantees in place for our and oneok partners' indebtedness. a court may use fraudulent conveyance laws to subordinate or avoid the cross guarantees of certain of our and oneok partners' indebtedness. it is also possible that under certain circumstances, a court could hold that the direct obligations of the guarantor could be superior to the obligations under that cross guarantee. 32 table of contents a court could avoid or subordinate the guarantor's guarantee of our and oneok partners' indebtedness in favor of the guarantor's other debts or liabilities to the extent that the court determined either of the following were true at the time the guarantor issued the guarantee: the guarantor incurred the guarantee with the intent to hinder, delay or defraud any of its present or future creditors or the guarantor contemplated insolvency with a design to favor one or more creditors to the total or partial exclusion of others; or the guarantor did not receive fair consideration or reasonable equivalent value for issuing the guarantee and, at the time it issued the guarantee, the guarantor: was insolvent or rendered insolvent by reason of the issuance of the guarantee; was engaged or about to engage in a business or transaction for which its remaining assets constituted unreasonably small capital; or intended to incur, or believed that it would incur, debts beyond its ability to pay such debts as they matured. the measure of insolvency for purposes of the foregoing will vary depending upon the law of the relevant jurisdiction. generally, however, an entity would be considered insolvent for purposes of the foregoing if: the sum of its debts, including contingent liabilities, were greater than the fair saleable value of all of its assets at a fair valuation; the present fair saleable value of its assets was less than the amount that would be required to pay its probable liability on its existing debts, including contingent liabilities, as they become absolute and mature; or it could not pay its debts as they become due. among other things, a legal challenge of the cross guarantees of our and oneok partners' indebtedness on fraudulent conveyance grounds may focus on the benefits, if any, realized by the guarantor as a result of our and oneok partners' issuance of such debt. to the extent the guarantor's guarantee of our and oneok partners' indebtedness is avoided as a result of fraudulent conveyance or held unenforceable for any other reason, the holders of such debt would cease to have any claim in respect of the guarantee. the cost of providing pension and postretirement health care benefits to eligible employees and qualified retirees is subject to changes in pension fund values and changing demographics and may increase. we have a defined benefit pension plan for certain employees and former employees hired before january 1, 2005, and postretirement welfare plans that provide postretirement medical and life insurance benefits to certain employees hired prior to 2017 who retire with at least five years of service. the cost of providing these benefits to eligible current and former employees is subject to changes in the market value of our pension and postretirement benefit plan assets, changing demographics, including longer life expectancy of plan participants and their beneficiaries and changes in health care costs. for further discussion of our defined benefit pension plan, see note k of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this annual report. any sustained declines in equity markets and reductions in bond yields may have a material adverse effect on the value of our pension and postretirement benefit plan assets. in these circumstances, additional cash contributions to our pension plans may be required, which could impact adversely our business, financial condition and liquidity. tax risks federal, state and local jurisdictions may challenge our tax return positions. the positions taken in our federal and state tax return filings require significant judgments, use of estimates and the interpretation and application of complex tax laws. significant judgment is also required in assessing the timing and amounts of deductible and taxable items. despite management's belief that our tax return positions are fully supportable, certain positions may be successfully challenged by federal, state and local jurisdictions. changes in guidance and regulation related to the tax cuts and jobs act legislation may impact us. since the tax cuts and jobs act was enacted, additional guidance in the form of notices and proposed regulations which interpret various aspects of the legislation have been issued. additionally, the legislation could be subject to potential amendments and technical corrections. we continue to monitor proposed regulations and other guidance related to the tax cuts and jobs act and will continue to apply applicable guidance and rule-making as it becomes available. any future 33 table of contents interpretations, regulations, amendments or corrections could have an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 57 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our exposure to market risk discussed below includes forward-looking statements and represents an estimate of possible changes in future earnings that could occur assuming hypothetical future movements in interest rates or commodity prices. our views on market risk are not necessarily indicative of actual results that may occur and do not represent the maximum possible gains and losses that may occur since actual gains and losses will differ from those estimated based on actual fluctuations in interest rates or commodity prices and the timing of transactions. we are exposed to market risk due to commodity price and interest-rate volatility. market risk is the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices. we may use financial instruments, including forward sales, swaps, options and futures, to manage the risks of certain identifiable or anticipated transactions and achieve more predictable cash flows. our risk-management function follows established policies and procedures to monitor our natural gas, condensate and ngl marketing activities and interest rates to ensure our hedging activities mitigate market risks. we do not use financial instruments for trading purposes. see note a of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this annual report for discussion on our accounting policies for our derivative instruments and the impact on our consolidated financial statements. commodity price risk as part of our hedging strategy, we use commodity derivative financial instruments and physical-forward contracts described in note c of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this annual report to reduce the impact of near-term price fluctuations of natural gas, ngls and condensate. although our businesses are primarily fee-based, in our natural gas gathering and processing segment, we are exposed to commodity price risk as a result of retaining a portion of the commodity sales proceeds associated with our pop with fee contracts. under certain pop with fee contracts, our contractual fees and pop percentage may increase or decrease if production volumes, delivery pressures or commodity prices change relative to specified thresholds. we are exposed to basis risk between the various production and market locations where we buy and sell commodities. the following tables set forth hedging information for our natural gas gathering and processing segment's forecasted equity volumes for the periods indicated: year ending december 31, 2019 volumes hedged average price percentage hedged ngls - excluding ethane ( mbbl/d ) - conway/mont belvieu 7.6 $ 0.71 / gallon 75% condensate ( mbbl/d ) - wti-nymex 2.7 $ 58.55 / bbl 92% natural gas ( bbtu/d ) - nymex and basis 82.0 $ 2.30 / mmbtu 81% 57 table of contents year ending december 31, 2020 volumes hedged average price percentage hedged ngls - excluding ethane ( mbbl/d ) - conway/mont belvieu 2.0 $ 0.61 / gallon 22% condensate ( mbbl/d ) - wti-nymex 0.8 $ 55.25 / bbl 26% natural gas ( bbtu/d ) - nymex and basis 39.1 $ 2.46 / mmbtu 49% our natural gas gathering and processing segment's commodity price sensitivity is estimated as a hypothetical change in the price of ngls, crude oil and natural gas at december 31, 2018 . condensate sales are typically based on the price of crude oil. assuming normal operating conditions, we estimate the following for our forecasted equity volumes: a $0.01 per-gallon change in the composite price of ngls, excluding ethane, would change adjusted ebitda for the years ending december 31, 2019 and 2020, by $1.6 million and $1.7 million, respectively; a $1.00 per-barrel change in the price of crude oil would change adjusted ebitda for the years ending december 31, 2019 and 2020, by $1.5 million and $1.6 million, respectively; and a $0.10 per-mmbtu change in the price of residue natural gas would change adjusted ebitda for the years ending december 31, 2019 and 2020, by $3.9 million and $3.6 million , respectively. these estimates do not include any effects of hedging or effects on demand for our services or natural gas processing plant operations that might be caused by, or arise in conjunction with, commodity price fluctuations. for example, a change in the gross processing spread may cause a change in the amount of ethane extracted from the natural gas stream, impacting gathering and processing financial results for certain contracts. interest-rate risk we are exposed to interest-rate risk through our $2.5 billion credit agreement, $1.5 billion term loan agreement, commercial paper program and long-term debt issuances. future increases in libor, corporate commercial paper rates or corporate bond rates could expose us to increased interest costs on future borrowings. we manage interest-rate risk through the use of fixed-rate debt, floating-rate debt, interest-rate swaps and treasury lock contracts. interest-rate swaps are agreements to exchange interest payments at some future point based on specified notional amounts. in 2018, we entered into $2.8 billion of forward-starting interest-rate swaps and treasury lock contracts to hedge the variability of interest payments on a portion of our forecasted debt issuances that may result from changes in the benchmark interest rate before the debt is issued and $1.3 billion of forward-starting interest-rate swaps used to hedge the variability of our libor-based interest payments. we also settled $1.0 billion of our forward-starting interest-rate swaps and treasury lock contracts related to our underwritten public offering of $1.25 billion senior unsecured notes completed in july 2018, and $500 million of our interest-rate swaps in january 2018 used to hedge our libor-based interest payments. at december 31, 2018 and 2017, we had forward-starting interest-rate swaps with notional amounts totaling $3.0 billion and $1.3 billion , respectively, to hedge the variability of interest payments on a portion of our forecasted debt issuances. at december 31, 2018 and 2017, we had interest-rate swaps with notional amounts totaling $1.3 billion and $500 million, respectively, to hedge the variability of our libor-based interest payments. all of our interest-rate swaps are designated as cash flow hedges. at december 31, 2018, we had derivative assets of $19 million and derivative liabilities of $99 million related to these interest-rate swaps. at december 31, 2017, we had derivative assets of $50 million related to these interest-rate swaps. see note c of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this annual report for more information on our hedging activities. counterparty credit risk we assess the creditworthiness of our counterparties on an ongoing basis and require security, including prepayments and other forms of collateral, when appropriate. certain of our counterparties may be impacted by a relatively low commodity price environment and could experience financial problems, which could result in nonpayment and/or nonperformance, which could impact adversely our results of operations. customer concentration - in 2018, no single customer represented more than 10 percent of our consolidated revenues. 58 table of contents natural gas gathering and processing - our natural gas gathering and processing segment derives services revenue primarily from major and independent crude oil and natural gas producers, which include both large integrated and independent exploration and production companies. in this segment, our downstream commodity sales customers are primarily utilities, large industrial companies, marketing companies and our ngl affiliate. we are not typically exposed to material credit risk with producers under pop with fee contracts as we sell the commodities and remit a portion of the sales proceeds back to the producer less our contractual fees. in 2018 and 2017, approximately 95 percent of the downstream commodity sales in our natural gas gathering and processing segment were made to investment-grade customers, as rated by s&amp;p, moody's or our comparable internal ratings, or were secured by letters of credit or other collateral. natural gas liquids - our natural gas liquids segment's counterparties are primarily ngl and natural gas gathering and processing companies; major and independent crude oil and natural gas production companies; utilities; large industrial companies; natural gasoline distributors; propane distributors; municipalities; and petrochemical, refining and marketing companies. we charge fees to ngl and natural gas gathering and processing counterparties and natural gas liquids pipeline transportation customers. we are not typically exposed to material credit risk on the majority of our exchange services fees, as we purchase ngls from our gathering and processing counterparties and deduct our fee from the amounts we remit. we also earn sales revenue on the downstream sales of ngl products. in 2018 and 2017, approximately 80 percent of this segment's commodity sales were made to investment-grade customers, as rated by s&amp;p, moody's or our comparable internal ratings, or were secured by letters of credit or other collateral. in addition, the majority of our natural gas liquids segment's pipeline tariffs provide us the ability to require security from shippers. natural gas pipelines - our natural gas pipelines segment's customers are primarily local natural gas distribution companies, electric-generation facilities, large industrial companies, municipalities, producers, processors and marketing companies. in 2018 and 2017, approximately 85 percent and 90 percent , respectively, of our revenues in this segment were from investment-grade customers, as rated by s&amp;p, moody's or our comparable internal ratings, or were secured by letters of credit or other collateral. in addition, the majority of our natural gas pipelines segment's pipeline tariffs provide us the ability to require security from shippers. 59 table of contentsrisk factors 19 risk factors our investors should consider the following risks that could affect us and our business. although we have tried to identify key factors, our investors need to be aware that other risks may prove to be important in the future. new risks may emerge at any time, and we cannot predict such risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect our financial performance. investors should consider carefully the following discussion of risks and the other information included or incorporated by reference in this annual report, including forward-looking statements, which are included in part ii, item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. if the level of drilling in the regions in which we operate declines substantially near our assets, our volumes and revenues could decline. our gathering and transportation pipeline systems are dependent upon production from natural gas and crude oil wells, which naturally declines over time. as a result, our cash flows associated with these wells will also decline over time. in order to maintain or increase throughput levels on our gathering and transportation pipeline systems and the asset utilization rates at our processing and fractionation facilities, we must continually obtain new supplies. our ability to maintain or expand our businesses depends largely on the level of drilling and production by third parties in the regions in which we operate. our natural gas and ngl supply volumes may be impacted if producers curtail or redirect drilling and production activities. drilling and production are impacted by factors beyond our control, including: demand and prices for natural gas, ngls and crude oil; producers' access to capital; producers' finding and development costs of reserves; producers' ability to obtain necessary permits, drilling rights and surface access in a timely manner and on reasonable terms; natural gas field characteristics and production performance; and capacity constraints on natural gas, crude oil and ngl infrastructure from the producing areas and our facilities. commodity prices have experienced significant volatility. drilling and production activity levels may vary across our geographic areas; however, a prolonged period of low commodity prices may reduce drilling and production activities across all areas. if we are not able to obtain new supplies to replace the natural decline in volumes from existing wells or because of competition, throughput on our gathering and transportation pipeline systems and the utilization rates of our processing and fractionation facilities would decline, which could affect adversely our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows, and our ability to pay cash dividends. continued development of supply sources outside of our operating regions could impact demand for our services. natural gas production areas outside of our operating regions may compete with natural gas originating in production areas connected to our systems. for example, increased production in the marcellus shale may cause natural gas and ngls in supply areas connected to our systems to be diverted to markets other than our traditional market areas and may affect capacity utilization adversely on our pipeline systems and our ability to renew or replace existing contracts. in our natural gas gathering and processing segment, the development of reserves could move drilling rigs from our current service areas to other areas, which may reduce demand for our services. in our natural gas pipelines segment, the displacement of natural gas originating in supply areas connected to our pipeline systems by supply sources that are closer to the end-use markets could reduce demand for our services. either of these possibilities could result in lower revenues, which could affect adversely our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. 19 table of contents our operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions, which could affect adversely our business and for which we may not be adequately insured. our operations are subject to all of the risks and hazards typically associated with the operation of natural gas and ngl gathering, transportation and distribution pipelines, storage facilities and processing and fractionation facilities, which include, but are not limited to, leaks, pipeline ruptures, the breakdown or failure of equipment or processes and the performance of facilities below expected levels of capacity and efficiency. other operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions include adverse weather conditions, accidents, explosions, fires, the collision of equipment with our pipeline facilities (for example, this may occur if a third party were to perform excavation or construction work near our facilities) and catastrophic events such as tornados, hurricanes, earthquakes, floods, and other similar events beyond our control. also, the united states government warned that energy assets, specifically the nation's pipeline infrastructure, may be targets of terrorist attacks. an act of terrorism could target our facilities, those of our suppliers or customers or those of other pipelines. a casualty occurrence may result in injury or loss of life, extensive property damage or environmental damage. liabilities incurred and interruptions to the operations of our pipeline or other facilities caused by such an event could reduce our revenues and increase expenses, thereby impairing our ability to meet our obligations. insurance proceeds may not be adequate to cover all liabilities or expenses incurred or revenues lost, and we are not fully insured against all risks inherent to our business. as a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain insurance policies can increase substantially, and, in some instances, certain insurance may become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. consequently, we may not be able to renew existing insurance policies or purchase other desirable insurance on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. if we were to incur a significant liability for which we were not fully insured, it could affect adversely our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. further, the proceeds of any such insurance may not be paid in a timely manner and may be insufficient if such an event were to occur. our operating results may be affected adversely by unfavorable economic and market conditions. an adverse change in economic conditions worldwide or in the economic regions in which we operate could negatively affect the crude oil and natural gas industry, as well as in the specific segments and markets in which we operate, resulting in reduced demand and increased price competition for our services and products. our operating results in one or more geographic regions may also be affected by uncertain or changing economic conditions within that region. volatility in commodity prices may have an impact on many of our suppliers and customers, which, in turn, could have a negative impact on their ability to meet their obligations to us. periods of severe volatility in equity and credit markets may disrupt our access to such markets, make it difficult to obtain financing necessary to expand facilities or acquire assets, increase financing costs and result in the imposition of restrictive financial covenants. if adverse global or regional economic and market conditions remain uncertain or persist, spread or deteriorate further, we may experience material impacts on our business, results of operations, financial position, cash flows and liquidity. increased regulation of exploration and production activities, including hydraulic fracturing, well setbacks and disposal of waste water, could result in reductions or delays in drilling and completing new crude oil and natural gas wells. the crude oil and natural gas industry is relying increasingly on supplies from nonconventional sources, such as shale and tight sands. natural gas extracted from these sources frequently requires hydraulic fracturing, which involves the pressurized injection of water, sand and chemicals into a geologic formation to stimulate crude oil and natural gas production. legislation or regulations placing restrictions on exploration and production activities, including hydraulic fracturing and disposal of waste water, could result in operational delays, increase operating costs and additional regulatory burdens on exploration and production operators. any of these factors could reduce their production of unprocessed natural gas and, in turn, affect adversely our revenues and results of operations by decreasing the volumes of natural gas and ngls gathered, treated, processed, fractionated and transported on our or our joint ventures' assets. in the competition for supply, we may have significant levels of excess capacity on our natural gas and ngl pipelines, processing, fractionation and storage assets. our natural gas and ngl pipelines, processing, fractionation and storage assets compete with other pipelines, processing, fractionation and storage assets for natural gas and ngl supply delivered to the markets we serve. as a result of competition, we may have significant levels of uncontracted or discounted capacity on our assets, which could affect adversely our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. 20 table of contents growing our business by constructing new pipelines and facilities or making modifications to our existing facilities subjects us to construction risk and supply risks, should adequate natural gas or ngl supply be unavailable upon completion of the facilities. to expand our business, we regularly construct new and modify or expand existing pipelines and gathering, processing, storage and fractionation facilities. the construction and modification of these facilities may involve the following risks: projects may require significant capital expenditures, which may exceed our estimates, and involve numerous regulatory, environmental, political, legal and weather-related uncertainties; projects may increase demand for labor, materials and rights of way, which may, in turn, affect our costs and schedule; we may be unable to obtain new rights of way to connect new natural gas or ngl supplies to our existing gathering or transportation pipelines; if we undertake these projects, we may not be able to complete them on schedule or at the budgeted cost; our revenues may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project. for instance, if we build a new pipeline, the construction will occur over an extended period of time, and we will not receive any material increases in revenues until after completion of the project; we may construct facilities to capture anticipated future growth in production in a region in which anticipated production growth does not materialize; opposition from environmental groups, landowners, tribal groups, local groups and other advocates could result in organized protests, attempts to block or sabotage our construction activities or operations, intervention in regulatory or administrative proceedings involving our assets, or lawsuits or other actions designed to prevent, disrupt or delay the construction or operation of our assets; and we may be required to rely on third parties downstream of our facilities to have available capacity for our delivered natural gas or ngls, which may not yet be operational. as a result, new facilities may not be able to attract enough natural gas or ngls to achieve our expected investment return, which could affect adversely our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. estimates of hydrocarbon reserves may be inaccurate which could result in lower than anticipated volumes. we may not be able to accurately estimate hydrocarbon reserves and production volumes expected to be delivered to us for a variety of reasons, including the unavailability of sufficiently detailed information and unanticipated changes in producers' expected drilling schedules. accordingly, we may not have accurate estimates of total reserves serviced by our assets, the anticipated life of such reserves or the expected volumes to be produced from those reserves. in such event, if we are unable to secure additional sources, then the volumes that we gather or process in the future could be less than anticipated. a decline in such volumes could affect adversely our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. the volatility of natural gas, crude oil and ngl prices could affect adversely our earnings and cash flows. a significant portion of our revenues are derived from the sale of commodities that are received in conjunction with natural gas gathering and processing services, the transportation and storage of natural gas, and from the purchase and sale of ngls and ngl products. commodity prices have been volatile and are likely to continue to be so in the future. the prices we receive for our commodities are subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors beyond our control, including, but not limited to, the following: overall domestic and global economic conditions; relatively minor changes in the supply of, and demand for, domestic and foreign energy; market uncertainty; the availability and cost of third-party transportation, natural gas processing and fractionation capacity; the level of consumer product demand and storage inventory levels; ethane rejection; geopolitical conditions impacting supply and demand for natural gas, ngls and crude oil; weather conditions; domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; the price and availability of alternative fuels; speculation in the commodity futures markets; the effects of imports and exports on the price of natural gas, crude oil, ngl and liquefied natural gas; the effect of worldwide energy-conservation measures; the impact of new supplies, new pipelines, processing and fractionation facilities on location price differentials; and technology and improved efficiency impacting supply and demand for natural gas, ngls and crude oil. 21 table of contents these external factors and the volatile nature of the energy markets make it difficult to reliably estimate future prices of commodities and the impact commodity price fluctuations have on our customers and their need for our services, which could affect adversely our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. as commodity prices decline, we could be paid less for our commodities, thereby reducing our cash flows. in addition, crude oil, natural gas and ngl production could also decline due to lower prices. we do not hedge fully against commodity price risk or interest rate risk, including commodity price changes, seasonal price differentials, product price differentials or location price differentials. this could result in decreased revenues, increased costs and lower margins, affecting adversely our results of operations. certain of our businesses are exposed to market risk and the impact of market fluctuations in natural gas, ngls and crude oil prices. market risk refers to the risk of loss of future cash flows and earnings arising from adverse changes in commodity prices. our primary commodity price exposures arise from: the value of the commodities sold under pop with fee contracts of which we retain a portion of the sales proceeds; the price differentials between the individual ngl products with respect to our ngl transportation and fractionation agreements; the location price differentials in the price of natural gas and ngls; the seasonal price differentials in natural gas and ngls related to our storage operations; the price risk related to electric costs to operate our facilities, primarily in texas; and the fuel costs and the value of the retained fuel in-kind in our natural gas pipelines and storage operations. to manage the risk from market price fluctuations in natural gas, ngls and crude oil prices, we may use derivative instruments such as swaps, futures, forwards and options. however, we do not hedge fully against commodity price changes, and we therefore retain some exposure to market risk. further, hedging instruments that are used to reduce our exposure to interest-rate fluctuations could expose us to risk of financial loss where we may contract for fixed-rate swap instruments to hedge variable-rate instruments and the fixed rate exceeds the variable rate. finally, hedging arrangements for forecasted sales and purchases are used to reduce our exposure to commodity price fluctuations and may limit the benefit we would otherwise receive if market prices for natural gas, crude oil and ngls differ from the stated price in the hedge instrument for these commodities. a breach of information security, including a cybersecurity attack, or failure of one or more key information technology or operational systems, or those of third parties, may affect adversely our operations, financial results or reputation. our businesses are dependent upon our operational systems to process a large amount of data and complex transactions. the various uses of these information technology systems, networks and services include, but are not limited to: controlling our plants and pipelines with industrial control systems including supervisory control and data acquisition (scada); collecting and storing customer, employee, investor and other stakeholder information and data; processing transactions; summarizing and reporting results of operations; hosting, processing and sharing confidential and proprietary research, business plans and financial information; complying with regulatory, legal, financial or tax requirements; providing data security; and other processes necessary to manage our business. if any of our systems are damaged, fail to function properly or otherwise become unavailable, we may incur substantial costs to repair or replace them and may experience loss or corruption of critical data and interruptions or delays in our ability to perform critical functions, which could affect adversely our business and results of operations. our financial results could also be affected adversely if an individual causes our operational systems to fail, either as a result of inadvertent error or by deliberately tampering with or manipulating our operational systems. in addition, dependence upon automated systems may further increase the risk that operational system flaws, employee tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect. due to increased technology advances, we have become more reliant on technology to help increase efficiency in our businesses. we use software to help manage and operate our businesses, and this may subject us to increased risks. in recent years, there has been a rise in the number and sophistication of cyberattacks on companies' network and information systems by both state-sponsored and criminal organizations, and as a result, the risks associated with such an event continue to increase. a significant failure, compromise, breach or interruption in our systems could result in a disruption of our operations, physical 22 table of contents damages, customer dissatisfaction, damage to our reputation and a loss of customers or revenues. if any such failure, interruption or similar event results in the improper disclosure of information maintained in our information systems and networks or those of our vendors, including personnel, customer and vendor information, we could also be subject to liability under relevant contractual obligations and laws and regulations protecting personal data and privacy. efforts by us and our vendors to develop, implement and maintain security measures may not be successful in preventing these events from occurring, and any network and information systems-related events could require us to expend significant resources to remedy such event. cybersecurity, physical security and the continued development and enhancement of our controls, processes and practices designed to protect our enterprise, information systems and data from attack, damage or unauthorized access and to identify and appropriately report cyberattacks, remain a priority for us. although we believe that we have robust information security procedures and other safeguards in place, as cyberthreats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend additional resources to continue to enhance our information security measures and/or to investigate and remediate information security vulnerabilities. cyberattacks against us or others in our industry could result in additional regulations. current efforts by the federal government, such as the improving critical infrastructure cybersecurity executive order, and any potential future regulations could lead to increased regulatory compliance costs, insurance coverage cost or capital expenditures. we cannot predict the potential impact to our business or the energy industry resulting from additional regulations. our operations are subject to federal and state laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, which may expose us to significant costs and liabilities. the risk of incurring substantial environmental costs and liabilities is inherent in our business. our operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into, or otherwise relating to the protection of, the environment. examples of these laws include: the clean air act and analogous state laws that impose obligations related to air emissions; the clean water act and analogous state laws that regulate discharge of wastewater from our facilities to state and federal waters; the federal comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act (cercla) and analogous state laws that regulate the cleanup of hazardous substances that may have been released at properties currently or previously owned or operated by us or locations to which we have sent waste for disposal; and the federal resource conservation and recovery act and analogous state laws that impose requirements for the handling and discharge of solid and hazardous waste from our facilities. various federal and state governmental authorities, including the epa, have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them. violators are subject to administrative, civil and criminal penalties, including civil fines, injunctions or both. joint and several, strict liability may be incurred without regard to fault under the cercla, resource conservation and recovery act and analogous state laws for the remediation of contaminated areas. there is an inherent risk of incurring environmental costs and liabilities in our business due to our handling of the products we gather, transport, process and store, air emissions related to our operations, past industry operations and waste disposal practices, some of which may be material. private parties, including the owners of properties through which our pipeline systems pass, may have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as to seek damages for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage arising from our operations. some sites we operate are located near current or former third-party hydrocarbon storage and processing operations, and there is a risk that contamination has migrated from those sites to ours. in addition, increasingly strict laws, regulations and enforcement policies could increase significantly our compliance costs and the cost of any remediation that may become necessary, some of which may be material. additional information is included under item 1, business, under regulatory, environmental and safety matters and in note n of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this annual report. our insurance may not cover all environmental risks and has limits on coverage in the event an environmental claim is made against us. our business may be affected adversely by increased costs due to stricter pollution-control requirements or liabilities resulting from noncompliance with required operating or other regulatory permits. new or revised environmental regulations might also affect adversely our products and activities, and federal and state agencies could impose additional safety requirements, all of which could affect adversely our profitability. 23 table of contents we may face significant costs to comply with the regulation of ghg emissions. ghg emissions originate primarily from combustion engine exhaust, heater exhaust and fugitive methane gas emissions. international, federal, regional and/or state legislative and/or regulatory initiatives may attempt to control or limit ghg emissions, including initiatives directed at issues associated with climate change. various federal and state legislative proposals have been introduced to regulate the emission of ghgs, particularly carbon dioxide and methane, and the united states supreme court has ruled that carbon dioxide is a pollutant subject to regulation by the epa. in addition, there have been international efforts seeking legally binding reductions in emissions of ghgs. we believe it is likely that future governmental legislation and/or regulation on the federal, state and regional levels, may require us either to limit ghg emissions associated with our operations, pay additional taxes or to purchase allowances for such emissions. these legislative and/or regulatory initiatives could make some of our activities uneconomic to maintain or operate. further, we may not be able to pass on the higher costs to our customers or recover all costs related to complying with ghg regulatory requirements. our future results of operations, financial position or cash flows could be affected adversely if such costs are not recovered or otherwise passed on to our customers. however, we cannot predict precisely what form these future regulations will take, the stringency of the regulations or when they may become effective. we may be subject to physical and financial risks associated with climate change and changes in investor sentiment towards climate change may affect the demand for our securities. the threat of global climate change may create physical and financial risks to our business. our customers' energy needs vary with weather conditions, primarily temperature and humidity. for residential customers, heating and cooling represent their largest energy use. to the extent weather conditions may be affected by climate change, customers' energy use could increase or decrease depending on the duration and magnitude of any changes. increased energy use due to weather changes may require us to invest in more pipelines and other infrastructure to serve increased demand. a decrease in energy use due to weather changes may affect our financial condition, through decreased revenues. extreme weather conditions in general require more system backup, adding to costs, and can contribute to increased system stresses, including service interruptions. weather conditions outside of our operating territory could also have an impact on our revenues. severe weather impacts our operating territories primarily through hurricanes, thunderstorms, tornados and snow or ice storms. to the extent the frequency of extreme weather events increases, this could increase our cost of providing service. we may not be able to pass on the higher costs to our customers or recover all costs related to mitigating these physical risks. due to climate change concerns, some investors may choose to either not invest, or reduce their investment, in companies that explore for, produce, process, transport or sell products derived from hydrocarbons. if this investor sentiment increases, we may see reduced demand for our securities, which could impact our liquidity or the value of our securities. in addition, to the extent financial markets view climate change and emissions of ghgs as a financial risk, this could affect negatively our ability to access capital markets or cause us to receive less favorable terms and conditions in future financings. changes in regulatory policies, public sentiment or technology due to the threat of climate change that result in a reduction in the demand for hydrocarbon products, restrictions on their use, or increased use of renewable energy could reduce future demand for hydrocarbons and reduce volumes available to us for gathering, processing, fractionation, transportation, storage and marketing. finally, increasing attention to climate change and the impacts of ghg emissions has resulted in an increased likelihood of governmental investigations, regulation and private litigation, which could increase our costs or otherwise affect adversely our business. our business is subject to regulatory oversight and potential penalties. the energy industry historically has been subject to heavy state and federal regulation that extends to many aspects of our businesses and operations, including: regulatory approval and review of certain of our rates, operating terms and conditions of service; the types of services we may offer our counterparties; construction of new facilities; the integrity, safety and security of facilities and operations; acquisition, extension or abandonment of services or facilities; reporting and information posting requirements; maintenance of accounts and records; and relationships with affiliate companies involved in all aspects of the natural gas and energy businesses. 24 table of contents compliance with these requirements can be costly and burdensome. future changes to laws, regulations and policies in these areas may impair our ability to compete for business or to recover costs and may increase the cost and burden of our operations. we cannot guarantee that state or federal regulators will not challenge our safety practices or will authorize any projects or acquisitions that we may propose in the future. moreover, there can be no guarantee that, if granted, any such authorizations will be made in a timely manner or will be free from potentially burdensome conditions. under the natural gas act, which is applicable to our interstate natural gas pipelines, and the interstate commerce act, which is applicable to our ngl pipelines, our interstate transportation rates are regulated by the ferc and many changes to our pipeline tariffs must be approved in a regulatory proceeding. additionally, either shippers, the ferc and/or state regulatory agencies may investigate our tariff rates which could result in, among other things, being ordered to reduce rates or make refunds to shippers. failure to comply with all applicable state or federal statutes, rules and regulations and orders could bring substantial penalties and fines. our regulated pipeline companies have recorded certain assets that may not be recoverable from our customers. accounting policies for ferc-regulated companies permit certain assets that result from the regulated rate-making process to be recorded on our balance sheet that could not be recorded under gaap for nonregulated entities. we consider factors such as regulatory changes and the impact of competition to determine the probability of future recovery of these assets. if we determine future recovery is no longer probable, we would be required to write off the regulatory assets at that time. a shortage of skilled labor may make it difficult for us to maintain labor productivity and competitive costs. our operations require skilled and experienced workers with proficiency in multiple tasks. in recent years, a shortage of workers trained in various skills associated with the midstream energy business has, at times, caused us to conduct certain operations without full staff, thus hiring outside resources, which may decrease productivity and increase costs. this shortage of trained workers is the result of experienced workers reaching retirement age and increased competition for workers in certain areas, combined with the challenges of attracting new, qualified workers to the midstream energy industry. this shortage of skilled labor could continue over an extended period. if the shortage of experienced labor continues or worsens, it could affect adversely our labor productivity and costs and our ability to expand operations in the event there is an increase in the demand for our services and products, which could affect adversely our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. measurement adjustments on our pipeline system may be impacted materially by changes in estimation, type of commodity and other factors. natural gas and ngl measurement adjustments occur as part of the normal operating conditions associated with our assets. the quantification and resolution of measurement adjustments are complicated by several factors including: (i) the significant quantities ( i.e. , thousands) of measurement equipment that we use across our natural gas and ngl systems, primarily around our gathering and processing assets; (ii) varying qualities of natural gas in the streams gathered and processed through our systems and the mixed nature of ngls gathered and fractionated; and (iii) variances in measurement that are inherent in metering technologies. each of these factors may contribute to measurement adjustments that may occur on our systems, which could affect adversely our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. many of our assets have been in service for several decades. many of our pipeline and storage assets are designed as long-lived assets. over time the age of these assets could result in increased maintenance or remediation expenditures and an increased risk of product releases and associated costs and liabilities. any significant increase in these expenditures, costs or liabilities could affect adversely our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows, as well as our ability to pay cash dividends. we may be unable to cause our joint ventures to take or not to take certain actions unless some or all of our joint-venture participants agree. we participate in several joint ventures. due to the nature of some of these arrangements, each participant in these joint ventures has made substantial investments in the joint venture and, accordingly, has required that the relevant charter documents contain certain features designed to provide each participant with the opportunity to participate in the management of the joint venture and to protect its investment, as well as any other assets that may be substantially dependent on or 25 table of contents otherwise affected by the activities of that joint venture. these participation and protective features customarily include a corporate governance structure that requires at least a majority-in-interest vote to authorize many basic activities and requires a greater voting interest (sometimes up to 100%) to authorize more significant activities. examples of these more significant activities are large expenditures or contractual commitments, the construction or acquisition of assets, borrowing money or otherwise raising capital, transactions with affiliates of a joint-venture participant, litigation and transactions not in the ordinary course of business, among others. thus, without the concurrence of joint-venture participants with enough voting interests, we may be unable to cause any of our joint ventures to take or not to take certain actions, even though those actions may be in the best interest of us or the particular joint venture. moreover, subject to contractual restrictions, any joint-venture owner generally may sell, transfer or otherwise modify its ownership interest in a joint venture, whether in a transaction involving third parties or the other joint-venture owners. any such transaction could result in us being required to partner with different or additional parties who may have business interests different from ours. we do not operate all of our joint-venture assets nor do we employ directly all of the persons responsible for providing administrative, operating and management services. this reliance on others to operate joint-venture assets and to provide other services could affect adversely our business and results of operations. we rely on others to provide administrative, operating and management services for certain of our joint-venture assets. we have a limited ability to control the operations and the associated costs of such operations. the success of these operations depends on a number of factors that are outside our control, including the competence and financial resources of the operator or an outsourced service provider. we may have to contract elsewhere for outsourced services, which may cost more than we are currently paying. in addition, we may not be able to obtain the same level or kind of service or retain or receive the services in a timely manner, which may impact our ability to perform under our contracts and affect adversely our business and results of operations. we do not own all of the land on which our pipelines and facilities are located, and we lease certain facilities and equipment, which could disrupt our operations. we do not own all of the land on which certain of our pipelines and facilities are located, and we are, therefore, subject to the risk of increased costs to maintain necessary land use. we obtain the rights to construct and operate certain of our pipelines and related facilities on land owned by third parties and governmental agencies for a specific period of time. our loss of these rights, through our inability to renew right-of-way contracts on acceptable terms or increased costs to renew such rights, could affect adversely our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. acquisitions that appear to be accretive may nevertheless reduce our cash from operations on a per-share basis. any acquisition involves potential risks that may include, among other things: inaccurate assumptions about volumes, revenues and costs, including potential synergies; an inability to integrate successfully the businesses we acquire; decrease in our liquidity as a result of our using a significant portion of our available cash or borrowing capacity to finance the acquisition; a significant increase in our interest expense and/or financial leverage if we incur additional debt to finance the acquisition; the assumption of unknown liabilities for which we are not indemnified, our indemnity is inadequate or our insurance policies may exclude from coverage; an inability to hire, train or retain qualified personnel to manage and operate the acquired business and assets; limitations on rights to indemnity from the seller; inaccurate assumptions about the overall costs of equity or debt; the diversion of management's and employees' attention from other business concerns; unforeseen difficulties operating in new product areas or new geographic areas; increased regulatory burdens; customer or key employee losses at an acquired business; and increased regulatory requirements. if we consummate any future acquisitions, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly, and investors will not have the opportunity to evaluate the economic, financial and other relevant information that we will consider in determining the application of our resources to future acquisitions. 26 table of contents if we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to report accurately our financial results or prevent fraud. as a result, current and potential holders of our equity and debt securities could lose confidence in our financial reporting. effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports, prevent fraud and operate successfully as a public company. we cannot be certain that our efforts to maintain our internal controls will be successful, that we will be able to maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future or that we will be able to continue to comply with our obligations under section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. any failure to maintain effective internal controls, or difficulties encountered in implementing or improving our internal controls, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. ineffective internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which would likely have a negative effect on the trading price of our equity, our access to capital markets and the cost of capital. our employees or directors may engage in misconduct or other improper activities, including noncompliance with regulatory standards and requirements. as with all companies, we are exposed to the risk of employee fraud or other misconduct. our board of directors has adopted a code of business conduct and ethics that applies to our directors, officers (including our principal executive and financial officers, principal accounting officer, controllers and other persons performing similar functions) and all other employees. we require all directors, officers and employees to adhere to our code of business conduct and ethics in addressing the legal and ethical issues encountered in conducting their work for our company. our code of business conduct and ethics requires, among other things, that our directors, officers and employees avoid conflicts of interest, comply with all applicable laws and other legal requirements, conduct business in an honest and ethical manner and otherwise act with integrity and in our company's best interest. all directors, officers and employees are required to report any conduct that they believe to be an actual or apparent violation of our code of business conduct and ethics. however, it is not always possible to identify and deter misconduct, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in controlling unknown or unmanaged risks or losses or in protecting us from governmental investigations or other actions or lawsuits stemming from a failure to comply with such laws or regulations. if any such actions are instituted against us, and we are not successful in defending ourselves or asserting our rights, those actions could affect adversely our reputation, business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. an impairment of goodwill, long-lived assets, including intangible assets, and equity-method investments could reduce our earnings. goodwill is recorded when the purchase price of a business exceeds the fair market value of the tangible and separately measurable intangible net assets. gaap requires us to test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis or when events or circumstances occur indicating that goodwill might be impaired. long-lived assets, including intangible assets with finite useful lives, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. for the investments we account for under the equity method, the impairment test considers whether the fair value of the equity investment as a whole, not the underlying net assets, has declined and whether that decline is other than temporary. for example, if a low commodity price environment persisted for a prolonged period, it could result in lower volumes delivered to our systems and impairments of our assets or equity-method investments. if we determine that an impairment is indicated, we would be required to take an immediate noncash charge to earnings with a correlative effect on equity and balance sheet leverage as measured by consolidated debt to total capitalization. any reduction in our credit ratings could affect adversely our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. our long-term debt and our commercial paper program have been assigned an investment-grade credit rating of baa3 and prime-3 , respectively, by moody's and bbb and a-2 , respectively, by s&amp;p. we cannot provide assurance that any of our current ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency. if moody's or s&amp;p were to downgrade our long-term debt or our commercial paper rating, particularly below investment grade, our borrowing costs would increase, which would affect adversely our financial results, and our potential pool of investors and funding sources could decrease. ratings from credit agencies are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our securities. each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. 27 table of contents holders of our common stock may not receive dividends in the amount identified in guidance, or any dividends at all. we may not have sufficient cash each quarter to pay dividends or maintain current or expected levels of dividends. the actual amount of cash we pay in the form of dividends may fluctuate from quarter to quarter and will depend on various factors, some of which are beyond our control, including our working capital needs, our ability to borrow, the restrictions contained in our indentures and credit facility, our debt service requirements and the cost of acquisitions, if any. a failure either to pay dividends or to pay dividends at expected levels could result in a loss of investor confidence, reputational damage and a decrease in the value of our stock price. our operating cash flows are derived partially from cash distributions we receive from our unconsolidated affiliates. our operating cash flows are derived partially from cash distributions we receive from our unconsolidated affiliates, as discussed in note m of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this annual report. the amount of cash that our unconsolidated affiliates can distribute principally depends upon the amount of cash flows these affiliates generate from their respective operations, which may fluctuate from quarter to quarter. we do not have any direct control over the cash distribution policies of our unconsolidated affiliates. this lack of control may contribute to us not having sufficient available cash each quarter to continue paying dividends at the current levels. additionally, the amount of cash that we have available for cash dividends depends primarily upon our cash flows, including working capital borrowings, and is not solely a function of profitability, which will be affected by noncash items such as depreciation, amortization and provisions for asset impairments. as a result, we may be able to pay cash dividends during periods when we record losses and may not be able to pay cash dividends during periods when we record net income. we are exposed to the credit risk of our customers or counterparties, and our credit-risk management may not be adequate to protect against such risk. we are subject to the risk of loss resulting from nonpayment and/or nonperformance by our customers and counterparties. our customers or counterparties may experience rapid deterioration of their financial condition as a result of changing market conditions, commodity prices or financial difficulties that could impact their creditworthiness or ability to pay us for our services. we assess the creditworthiness of our customers and counterparties and obtain collateral or contractual terms as we deem appropriate. we cannot, however, predict to what extent our business may be impacted by deteriorating market or financial conditions, including possible declines in our customers' and counterparties' creditworthiness. our customers and counterparties may not perform or adhere to our existing or future contractual arrangements. to the extent our customers and counterparties are in financial distress or commence bankruptcy proceedings, contracts with them may be subject to renegotiation or rejection under applicable provisions of the united states bankruptcy code. if our risk-management policies and procedures fail to assess adequately the creditworthiness of existing or future customers and counterparties, any material nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers and counterparties due to inability or unwillingness to perform or adhere to contractual arrangements could affect adversely our business, results of operations, financial position, cash flows and ability to pay cash dividends to our shareholders. our primary market areas are located in the mid-continent, rocky mountain, permian basin and gulf coast regions of the u.s. our counterparties are primarily major integrated and independent exploration and production, pipeline, marketing and petrochemical companies. therefore our counterparties may be similarly affected by changes in economic, regulatory or other factors that may affect our overall credit risk. changes in interest rates could affect adversely our business. we use both fixed and variable rate debt, and we are exposed to market risk due to the floating interest rates on our short-term borrowings. our results of operations, cash flows and financial position could be affected adversely by significant fluctuations in interest rates from current levels. in july 2017, the head of the united kingdom financial conduct authority announced the desire to phase out the use of libor by the end of 2021. in addition, the u.s. federal reserve, in conjunction with the alternative reference rates committee, a steering committee composed of large us financial institutions, is considering replacing u.s. dollar libor with the secured overnight financing rate (sofr), a new index supported by short-term treasury repurchase agreements. although there have been some issuances utilizing sofr, it is unknown whether this alternative reference rate will attain market acceptance as a replacement for libor. 28 table of contents our $2.5 billion credit agreement and our $1.5 billion term loan agreement include provisions that grant the agreement's administrative agents with broad discretion to establish a replacement rate for libor, if necessary. our indebtedness and guarantee obligations could impair our financial condition and our ability to fulfill our obligations. as of december 31, 2019 , we had total indebtedness of $12.8 billion . our indebtedness and guarantee obligations could have significant consequences. for example, they could: make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to senior notes and other indebtedness due to the increased debt-service obligations, which could, in turn, result in an event of default on such other indebtedness or the senior notes; impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general business purposes; diminish our ability to withstand a downturn in our business or the economy; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to debt-service payments, reducing the availability of cash for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, dividends or general corporate purposes; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared with our competitors that have proportionately less debt and fewer guarantee obligations. we are not prohibited under the indentures governing the senior notes from incurring additional indebtedness, but our debt agreements do subject us to certain operational limitations summarized in the next paragraph. if we incur significant additional indebtedness, it could worsen the negative consequences mentioned above and could affect adversely our ability to repay our other indebtedness. our $2.5 billion credit agreement and $1.5 billion term loan agreement contain provisions that restrict our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to expand or pursue our business activities. for example, certain of these agreements contain provisions that, among other things, limit our ability to make loans or investments, make material changes to the nature of our business, merge, consolidate or engage in asset sales, grant liens or make negative pledges. certain agreements also require us to maintain certain financial ratios, which limit the amount of additional indebtedness we can incur, as described in the liquidity and capital resources section of part ii, item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, in this annual report. these restrictions could result in higher costs of borrowing and impair our ability to generate additional cash. future financing agreements we may enter into may contain similar or more restrictive covenants. if we are unable to meet our debt-service obligations or comply with financial covenants, we could be forced to restructure or refinance our indebtedness, seek additional equity capital or sell assets. we may be unable to obtain financing or sell assets on satisfactory terms, or at all. the right to receive payments on our outstanding debt securities and subsidiary guarantees is unsecured and will be effectively subordinated to any future secured indebtedness as well as to any existing and future indebtedness of our subsidiaries that do not guarantee the senior notes. although many of our operating subsidiaries have guaranteed our debt securities, the guarantees are subject to release under certain circumstances, and we may have subsidiaries that are not guarantors. in that case, the debt securities effectively would be subordinated to the claims of all creditors, including trade creditors and tort claimants, of our subsidiaries that are not guarantors. in the event of the insolvency, bankruptcy, liquidation, reorganization, dissolution or winding up of the business of a subsidiary that is not a guarantor, creditors of that subsidiary would generally have the right to be paid in full before any distribution is made to us or the holders of the debt securities. an event of default may require us to offer to repurchase certain of our and oneok partners' senior notes or may impair our ability to access capital. the indentures governing certain of our and oneok partners' senior notes include an event of default upon the acceleration of other indebtedness of $15 million or more for certain of our senior notes or $100 million or more for certain of our and oneok partners' senior notes. such events of default would entitle the trustee or the holders of 25% in aggregate principal amount of our and oneok partners' outstanding senior notes to declare those senior notes immediately due and payable in full. we may not have sufficient cash on hand to repurchase and repay any accelerated senior notes, which may cause us to 29 table of contents borrow money under our credit facility or seek alternative financing sources to finance the repurchases and repayment. we could also face difficulties accessing capital or our borrowing costs could increase, impacting our ability to obtain financing for acquisitions or capital expenditures, to refinance indebtedness and to fulfill our debt obligations. a court may use fraudulent conveyance considerations to avoid or subordinate the cross guarantees of our and oneok partners' indebtedness. oneok, oneok partners and the intermediate partnership have cross guarantees in place for our and oneok partners' indebtedness. a court may use fraudulent conveyance laws to subordinate or avoid the cross guarantees of certain of our and oneok partners' indebtedness. it is also possible that under certain circumstances, a court could avoid or subordinate the guarantor's guarantee of our and oneok partners' indebtedness in favor of the guarantor's other debts or liabilities to the extent that the court determined either of the following were true at the time the guarantor issued the guarantee: the guarantor incurred the guarantee with the intent to hinder, delay or defraud any of its present or future creditors or the guarantor contemplated insolvency with a design to favor one or more creditors to the total or partial exclusion of others; or the guarantor did not receive fair consideration or reasonable equivalent value for issuing the guarantee and, at the time it issued the guarantee, the guarantor: was insolvent or rendered insolvent by reason of the issuance of the guarantee; was engaged or about to engage in a business or transaction for which its remaining assets constituted unreasonably small capital; or intended to incur, or believed that it would incur, debts beyond its ability to pay such debts as they matured. the measure of insolvency for purposes of the foregoing will vary depending upon the law of the relevant jurisdiction. generally, however, an entity would be considered insolvent for purposes of the foregoing if: the sum of its debts, including contingent liabilities, were greater than the fair saleable value of all of its assets at a fair valuation; the present fair saleable value of its assets was less than the amount that would be required to pay its probable liability on its existing debts, including contingent liabilities, as they become absolute and mature; or it could not pay its debts as they become due. among other things, a legal challenge of the cross guarantees of our and oneok partners' indebtedness on fraudulent conveyance grounds may focus on the benefits, if any, realized by the guarantor as a result of our and oneok partners' issuance of such debt. to the extent the guarantor's guarantee of our and oneok partners' indebtedness is avoided as a result of fraudulent conveyance or held unenforceable for any other reason, the holders of such debt would cease to have any claim in respect of the guarantee. the cost of providing pension and postretirement health care benefits to eligible employees and qualified retirees is subject to changes in pension fund values and changing demographics and may increase. we have a defined benefit pension plan for certain employees and former employees hired before january 1, 2005, and postretirement welfare plans that provide postretirement medical and life insurance benefits to certain employees hired prior to 2017 who retire with at least five years of full-time service. the cost of providing these benefits to eligible current and former employees is subject to changes in the market value of our pension and postretirement benefit plan assets, changing demographics, including longer life expectancy of plan participants and their beneficiaries and changes in health care costs. for further discussion of our defined benefit pension plan and postretirement welfare plans, see note k of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this annual report. any sustained declines in equity markets and reductions in bond yields may affect adversely the value of our pension and postretirement benefit plan assets. in these circumstances, additional cash contributions to our pension plans may be required, which could affect adversely our business, financial condition and liquidity. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 50 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our exposure to market risk discussed below includes forward-looking statements and represents an estimate of possible changes in future earnings that could occur assuming hypothetical future movements in interest rates or commodity prices. our views on market risk are not necessarily indicative of actual results that may occur and do not represent the maximum possible gains and losses that may occur since actual gains and losses will differ from those estimated based on actual fluctuations in interest rates or commodity prices and the timing of transactions. we are exposed to market risk due to commodity price and interest-rate volatility. market risk is the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices. we may use financial instruments, including forward sales, swaps, options and futures, to manage the risks of certain identifiable or anticipated transactions and achieve more predictable cash flows. our risk-management function follows established policies and procedures to monitor our natural gas, condensate and ngl 50 table of contents marketing activities and interest rates to ensure our hedging activities mitigate market risks. we do not use financial instruments for trading purposes. see note a of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this annual report for discussion on our accounting policies for our derivative instruments and the impact on our consolidated financial statements. commodity price risk as part of our hedging strategy, we use commodity derivative financial instruments and physical-forward contracts described in note c of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this annual report to reduce the impact of near-term price fluctuations of natural gas, ngls and condensate. although our businesses are primarily fee-based, in our natural gas gathering and processing segment, we are exposed to commodity price risk as a result of retaining a portion of the commodity sales proceeds associated with our pop with fee contracts. under certain pop with fee contracts, our contractual fees and pop percentage may increase or decrease if production volumes, delivery pressures or commodity prices change relative to specified thresholds. we are exposed to basis risk between the various production and market locations where we buy and sell commodities. the following tables set forth hedging information for our natural gas gathering and processing segment's forecasted equity volumes for the periods indicated: year ending december 31, 2020 volumes hedged average price percentage hedged ngls - excluding ethane ( mbbl/d ) - conway/mont belvieu 10.3 $ 0.55 / gallon 63% condensate ( mbbl/d ) - wti-nymex 3.0 $ 54.08 / bbl 62% natural gas ( bbtu/d ) - nymex and basis 125.0 $ 2.39 / mmbtu 76% year ending december 31, 2021 volumes hedged average price percentage hedged natural gas ( bbtu/d ) - nymex and basis 36.4 $ 2.43 / mmbtu 19% our natural gas gathering and processing segment's commodity price sensitivity is estimated as a hypothetical change in the price of ngls, crude oil and natural gas at december 31, 2019 . condensate sales are typically based on the price of crude oil. assuming normal operating conditions, we estimate the following for our forecasted equity volumes: a $0.01 per gallon change in the composite price of ngls, excluding ethane, would change adjusted ebitda for the years ending december 31, 2020 and 2021, by $2.5 million and $3.0 million , respectively; a $1.00 per barrel change in the price of crude oil would change adjusted ebitda for the years ending december 31, 2020 and 2021, by $1.5 million and $1.8 million , respectively; and a $0.10 per mmbtu change in the price of residue natural gas would change adjusted ebitda for the years ending december 31, 2020 and 2021, by $6.1 million and $7.1 million , respectively. these estimates do not include any effects of hedging or effects on demand for our services or natural gas processing plant operations that might be caused by, or arise in conjunction with, commodity price fluctuations. for example, a change in the gross processing spread may cause a change in the amount of ethane extracted from the natural gas stream, impacting gathering and processing financial results for certain contracts. interest-rate risk we are exposed to interest-rate risk through borrowings under our $2.5 billion credit agreement, $1.5 billion term loan agreement, commercial paper program and long-term debt issuances. future increases in libor or the established replacement rate, commercial paper rates or bond rates could expose us to increased interest costs on future borrowings. we manage interest-rate risk through the use of fixed-rate debt, floating-rate debt and interest-rate swaps. interest-rate swaps are agreements to exchange interest payments at some future point based on specified notional amounts. in 2019, we entered into $625 million of forward-starting interest-rate swaps to hedge the variability of interest payments on a portion of our forecasted debt issuances that may result from changes in the benchmark interest rate before the debt is issued. we also settled $1.8 51 table of contents billion of our forward-starting interest-rate swaps related to our underwritten public offering of $1.25 billion senior unsecured notes in march 2019 and $2.0 billion senior unsecured notes in august 2019. at december 31, 2019 and 2018, we had forward-starting interest-rate swaps with notional amounts totaling $1.8 billion and $3.0 billion , respectively, to hedge the variability of interest payments on a portion of our forecasted debt issuances. at december 31, 2019 and 2018, we had interest-rate swaps with notional amounts totaling $1.3 billion to hedge the variability of our libor-based interest payments. all of our interest-rate swaps are designated as cash flow hedges. at december 31, 2019, we had derivative assets of $0.6 million and derivative liabilities of $201.9 million related to these interest-rate swaps. at december 31, 2018, we had derivative assets of $19.0 million and derivative liabilities of $99.3 million related to these interest-rate swaps. see note c of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this annual report for more information on our hedging activities. counterparty credit risk we assess the creditworthiness of our counterparties on an ongoing basis and require security, including prepayments and other forms of collateral, when appropriate. certain of our counterparties may be impacted by a relatively low commodity price environment and could experience financial problems, which could result in nonpayment and/or nonperformance, which could impact adversely our results of operations. customer concentration - in 2019, no single customer represented more than 10% of our consolidated revenues. natural gas gathering and processing - our natural gas gathering and processing segment derives services revenue primarily from major and independent crude oil and natural gas producers, which include both large integrated and independent exploration and production companies. in this segment, our downstream commodity sales customers are primarily utilities, large industrial companies, marketing companies and our ngl affiliate. we are not typically exposed to material credit risk with producers under pop with fee contracts as we sell the commodities and remit a portion of the sales proceeds back to the producer less our contractual fees. in 2019 and 2018, approximately 90% and 95%, respectively, of the downstream commodity sales in our natural gas gathering and processing segment were made to investment-grade customers, as rated by s&amp;p, moody's or our comparable internal ratings, or were secured by letters of credit or other collateral. natural gas liquids - our natural gas liquids segment's counterparties are primarily ngl and natural gas gathering and processing companies; major and independent crude oil and natural gas production companies; utilities; large industrial companies; natural gasoline distributors; propane distributors; municipalities; and petrochemical, refining and marketing companies. we charge fees to ngl and natural gas gathering and processing counterparties and ngl pipeline transportation customers. we are not typically exposed to material credit risk on the majority of our exchange services fees, as we purchase ngls from our gathering and processing counterparties and deduct our fee from the amounts we remit. we also earn sales revenue on the downstream sales of ngl products. in 2019 and 2018, approximately 80% of this segment's commodity sales were made to investment-grade customers, as rated by s&amp;p, moody's or our comparable internal ratings, or were secured by letters of credit or other collateral. in addition, the majority of our natural gas liquids segment's pipeline tariffs provide us the ability to require security from shippers. natural gas pipelines - our natural gas pipelines segment's customers are primarily local natural gas distribution companies, electric-generation facilities, large industrial companies, municipalities, producers, processors and marketing companies. in 2019 and 2018, approximately 85% of our revenues in this segment were from investment-grade customers, as rated by s&amp;p, moody's or our comparable internal ratings, or were secured by letters of credit or other collateral. in addition, the majority of our natural gas pipelines segment's pipeline tariffs provide us the ability to require security from shippers. 52 table of contents this page intentionally left blank. 53 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 52-53 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk commodity price risk non-regulated businesses, including marketing and trading - we are exposed to market risk and the impact of market price fluctuations of natural gas, ngls, crude oil and power prices. market risk refers to the risk of loss in cash flows and future earnings arising from adverse changes in commodity energy prices. our primary exposure arises from fixed price purchase or sale agreements that extend for periods of up to six years, gas in storage utilized by the marketing and trading operation, ngls in storage utilized by the ngl marketing operation, the difference in price between natural gas and ngl prices with respect to our keep whole processing agreements, and anticipated sales of natural gas and oil production. to a lesser extent, we are exposed to the risk of changing prices or the cost of intervening transportation resulting from purchasing gas at one location and selling it at another (referred to as basis risk). to minimize the risk from market price fluctuations of natural gas, ngls and crude oil, we use commodity derivative instruments such as futures contracts, swaps and options to manage market risk of existing or anticipated purchase and sale agreements, existing physical gas in storage, and basis risk. we adhere to policies and procedures that limit our exposure to market risk from open positions and that monitor our market risk exposure. for a detail of the marketing and trading segment maturity of energy trading contracts based on heating injection and withdrawal periods from april through march and the related models and assumptions, refer to the liquidity and capital resources section of item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations of this annual report on form 10-k. for further discussion of trading activities, see the critical accounting policies and estimates section of item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations on this annual report on form 10-k. also, see note d of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k. regulated businesses - kgs uses derivative instruments to hedge the cost of anticipated gas purchases during the winter heating months to protect kgs customers from upward volatility in natural gas market prices. at december 31, 2003, kgs had derivative instruments in place to hedge the cost of purchases for 13.5 bcf of gas, representing part of kgs gas purchase requirements for the 2003/2004 winter heating months based on normal weather conditions. gains or losses associated with the kgs hedges are included in and recoverable through the monthly pga. from time to time, tgs uses derivative instruments to mitigate the volatility of the cost of gas to protect its customers in the city of el paso. at december 31, 2003, tgs had no derivative instruments in place to hedge the cost of purchases of gas. gains or losses associated with the derivative instruments would be included in and recoverable through the monthly purchased gas adjustment. value-at-risk - we measure market risk in the trading, price risk management, and non-trading portfolios of our non-regulated businesses using a value-at-risk (var) methodology, which estimates the expected maximum loss of the portfolio over a specified time horizon within a given confidence interval. our var calculations are based on the monte carlo approach, which we began using in the second quarter of 2002. prior to that time, we used the variance-covariance approach. the quantification of market risk using var provides a consistent measure of risk across diverse energy markets and products with different risk factors in order to set overall risk tolerance, to determine risk targets and set position limits. the use of this methodology requires a number of key assumptions, including the selection of a confidence level and the holding period to liquidation. inputs to the calculation include prices, positions, instrument valuations and the variance-covariance matrix. historical data is used to estimate our var with more weight given to recent data, which is considered a more relevant predictor of immediate future commodity market movements. we rely on var to determine the potential reduction in the trading and price risk management portfolio values arising from changes in market conditions over a defined period. while management believes that the referenced assumptions and approximations are reasonable, no uniform industry methodology exists for estimating var. different assumptions and approximations could produce materially different var estimates. our var exposure represents an estimate of potential losses that would be recognized for our non-regulated businesses trading, price risk management, and non-trading portfolios of derivative financial instruments, physical contracts and gas in storage due to adverse market movements. a one-day time horizon and a 95 percent confidence level were used in our var data. actual future gains and losses will differ from those estimated by the var calculation based on actual fluctuations in commodity prices, operating exposures and timing thereof, and the changes in our derivative financial instruments, physical contracts and gas in storage. var information should be evaluated in light of these assumptions and the methodology other limitations. 52 table of contents the potential impact on our future earnings, as measured by the var, was $11.0 million and $3.2 million at december 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. the following table details the average, high and low var calculations. years ended december 31, value-at-risk 2003 2002 (millions of dollars) average $ 3.9 $ 5.0 high $ 17.1 $ 17.8 low $ 0.5 $ 1.2 the variations in the var data are reflective of market volatility and changes in the portfolio during the year. risk policy and oversight - we control the scope of risk management, marketing and trading operations through a comprehensive set of policies and procedures involving senior levels of management. our board of directors affirms the risk limit parameters, with our audit committee having oversight responsibilities for the policies. a risk oversight committee, comprised of corporate and business segment officers, oversees all activities related to commodity price, credit and interest rate risk management, and marketing and trading activities. the committee also proposes risk metrics including var and position loss limits. we have a corporate risk control organization led by our senior vice president of financial services and the vice president of audit services and risk control, who are assigned responsibility for establishing and enforcing the policies, procedures and limits as well as evaluating the risks inherent in proposed transactions. key risk control activities include credit review and approval, credit and performance risk measurement and monitoring, validation of transactions, portfolio valuation, var and other risk metrics. to the extent open commodity positions exist, fluctuating commodity prices can impact our financial results and financial position either favorably or unfavorably. as a result, we cannot predict with precision the impact risk management decisions may have on the business, operating results or financial position. interest rate risk we are subject to the risk of interest rate fluctuation in the normal course of business. we manage interest rate risk through the use of fixed rate debt, floating rate debt and, at times, interest rate swaps. fixed rate swaps are used to reduce our risk of increased interest costs during periods of rising interest rates. floating rate swaps are used to convert the fixed rates of long-term borrowings into short-term variable rates. at december 31, 2003, the interest rate on 59.4 percent of our debt was fixed, after considering the effect of interest rate swaps. currently, $740 million of fixed rate debt is swapped to floating. the floating rate debt is based on both three and six-month london interbank offered rate (libor). at december 31, 2003, $500.0 million of the $740 million had the interest rate locked through the first quarter of 2005. based on the current libor strip and the locks in place, the weighted average rate on the $740 million of debt will be reduced from 7.01 percent to 3.15 percent. this will result in an estimated savings of $28.6 million during 2004. the swaps resulted in approximately $20.6 million in savings in 2002 and $24.4 million in savings during 2003. at december 31, 2003, price risk management assets include $55.8 million to recognize the fair value of our derivatives that are designated as fair value hedging instruments. long-term debt includes approximately $55.9 million to recognize the change in fair value of the related hedged liability. interest expense increased approximately $0.9 million for the year ended december 31, 2003, to recognize the ineffectiveness of these hedges. at december 31, 2003, a 100 basis point move in the annual interest rate on all of our outstanding long-term debt would change our annual interest expense by $2.4 million before taxes. this amount is limited based on the libor locks that we have in place through the first quarter of 2005. if these locks were not in place, a 100 basis point change in the interest rates would affect our annual interest expense by $7.4 million before taxes. this 100 basis point change assumes a parallel shift in the yield curve. if interest rates changed significantly, we would take actions to manage our exposure to the change. since a specific action and the possible effects are uncertain, no change has been assumed. 53 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 55-57 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk commodity price risk non-regulated businesses, including energy services - we are exposed to market risk and the impact of market price fluctuations of natural gas, ngls, crude oil and power prices. market risk refers to the risk of loss in cash flows and future earnings arising from adverse changes in commodity energy prices. our primary exposure arises from fixed price purchase or sale agreements that extend for periods of up to five years, gas in storage utilized by the energy services segment, ngls in storage utilized by oneok ngl marketing, the difference in price between natural gas and ngl prices with respect to our keep whole processing agreements, and anticipated sales of natural gas and oil production. to a lesser extent, we are exposed to the risk of changing prices or the cost of intervening transportation resulting from purchasing gas at one location and selling it at another (referred to as basis risk). to minimize the risk from market price fluctuations of natural gas, ngls and crude oil, we use commodity derivative instruments such as futures contracts, swaps and options to manage market risk of existing or anticipated purchase and sale agreements, existing physical gas in storage, and basis risk. we adhere to policies and procedures that limit our exposure to market risk from open positions and that monitor our market risk exposure. 55 table of contents for a detail of the energy services segment maturity of energy trading contracts based on heating injection and withdrawal periods from april through march and the related models and assumptions, refer to the liquidity and capital resources section of item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation of this annual report on form 10-k. for further discussion of trading activities, see the critical accounting policies and estimates section of item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation on this annual report on form 10-k. also, see note d of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k. regulated businesses - kansas gas service uses derivative instruments to hedge the cost of anticipated gas purchases during the winter heating months to protect kansas gas service customers from upward volatility in the market price of natural gas. at december 31, 2004, kansas gas service had derivative instruments in place to hedge the cost of natural gas purchases for 4.4 bcf, representing part of their gas purchase requirements for the 2004/2005 winter heating months. gains or losses associated with the kansas gas service hedges are included in and recoverable through the monthly pga. from time to time, texas gas service uses derivative instruments to mitigate the volatility of the cost of gas to protect its customers in the city of el paso. at december 31, 2004, texas gas service had no derivative instruments in place to hedge the cost of natural gas purchases. gains or losses associated with the derivative instruments would be included in and recoverable through the monthly pga. value-at-risk (var) disclosure of market risk - we measure market risk in the energy marketing and risk management, trading and non-trading portfolios of our non-regulated businesses using a var methodology, which estimates the expected maximum loss of the portfolio over a specified time horizon within a given confidence interval. our var calculations are based on the monte carlo approach. the quantification of market risk using var provides a consistent measure of risk across diverse energy markets and products with different risk factors in order to set overall risk tolerance, to determine risk targets and set position limits. the use of this methodology requires a number of key assumptions, including the selection of a confidence level and the holding period to liquidation. inputs to the calculation include prices, positions, instrument valuations and the variance-covariance matrix. historical data is used to estimate our var with more weight given to recent data, which is considered a more relevant predictor of immediate future commodity market movements. we rely on var to determine the potential reduction in the portfolio values arising from changes in market conditions over a defined period. while management believes that the referenced assumptions and approximations are reasonable, no uniform industry methodology exists for estimating var. different assumptions and approximations could produce materially different var estimates. our var exposure represents an estimate of potential losses that would be recognized for our non-regulated businesses energy marketing and risk management, non-trading and trading portfolios of derivative financial instruments, physical contracts and gas in storage due to adverse market movements. a one-day time horizon and a 95 percent confidence level were used in our var data. actual future gains and losses will differ from those estimated by the var calculation based on actual fluctuations in commodity prices, operating exposures and timing thereof, and the changes in our derivative financial instruments, physical contracts and gas in storage. var information should be evaluated in light of these assumptions and the methodology other limitations. the potential impact on our future earnings, as measured by the var, was $9.6 million and $11.0 million at december 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. the following table details the average, high and low var calculations. years ended december 31, value-at-risk 2004 2003 (millions of dollars) average $ 3.8 $ 3.9 high $ 17.7 $ 17.1 low $ 0.6 $ 0.5 the variations in the var data are reflective of market volatility and changes in the portfolios during the year. risk policy and oversight - we control the scope of risk management, marketing and trading operations through a comprehensive set of policies and procedures involving senior levels of management. the audit committee of our board of directors has oversight responsibilities for our risk management limits and policies. a risk oversight committee, comprised of corporate and business segment officers, oversees all activities related to commodity price, credit and interest rate risk management, and marketing and trading activities. the committee also proposes risk metrics including var and position 56 table of contents loss limits. we have a corporate risk control organization led by our senior vice president of financial services and treasurer and the vice president of audit services and risk control, who are assigned responsibility for establishing and enforcing the policies, procedures and limits. key risk control activities include credit review and approval, credit and performance risk measurement and monitoring, validation of transactions, portfolio valuation, var and other risk metrics. to the extent open commodity positions exist, fluctuating commodity prices can impact our financial results and financial position either favorably or unfavorably. as a result, we cannot predict with precision the impact risk management decisions may have on the business, operating results or financial position. interest rate and currency risk interest rate risk - we are subject to the risk of interest rate fluctuation in the normal course of business. we manage interest rate risk through the use of fixed rate debt, floating rate debt and, at times, interest rate swaps. fixed rate swaps are used to reduce our risk of increased interest costs during periods of rising interest rates. floating rate swaps are used to convert the fixed rates of long-term borrowings into short-term variable rates. at december 31, 2004, the interest rate on 59.4 percent of our debt was fixed, after considering the effect of interest rate swaps. during the first quarter of 2004, we terminated $670 million of our interest rate swap agreements to lock in savings and received $91.8 million, which includes $8.9 million of interest rate savings previously recorded. these interest rate swaps were previously initiated as a strategy to hedge the fair value of fixed rate, long-term debt. the net proceeds received upon termination of the interest rate swaps were $81.9 million, after reduction for ineffectiveness and unpaid interest. ineffectiveness related to these hedges of approximately $1.0 million is included in interest expense. through december 31, 2004, $8.1 million in interest expense savings has been recognized and the remaining amount of $73.8 million will be recognized in the income statement over the remaining term of the debt instruments originally hedged. consequently, the remaining savings in interest expense will be recognized over the following periods: 2005 $ 10.0 million 2006 $ 10.0 million 2007 $ 10.0 million 2008 $ 10.0 million thereafter $ 33.8 million we entered into new swap agreements to replace the terminated agreements. currently, $740 million of fixed rate debt is swapped to floating. the floating rate debt is based on both the three and six-month london interbank offered rate (libor), depending upon the swap. based on the current libor strip, the weighted average rate on the $740 million of debt will be reduced from 6.81 percent to 4.54 percent. this, along with the amortization of the terminated swaps, will result in an estimated savings of $16.8 million during 2005. the swaps and amortization resulted in approximately $24.4 million in savings in 2003 and $27.6 million in savings during 2004. at december 31, 2004, we had a net liability of $17.6 million recorded in energy marketing and risk management liabilities to reflect the fair value of the current interest rate swaps. long-term debt reflects the offset to the fair value of the swaps, with a decrease in overall debt of $17.6 million. at december 31, 2004, a 100 basis point move in the annual interest rate on all of our outstanding long-term debt would change our annual interest expense by $7.4 million before taxes. this 100 basis point change assumes a parallel shift in the yield curve. if interest rates changed significantly, we would take actions to manage our exposure to the change. since a specific action and the possible effects are uncertain, no change has been assumed. currency rate risk - with our energy services segment expansion into canada, we are subject to currency exposure related to our firm transportation and storage contracts. our objective with respect to currency risk is to reduce the exposure due to exchange-rate fluctuations. we use physical forward transactions, which result in an actual two-way flow of currency on the settlement date since we exchange u.s. dollars for canadian dollars with another party. the notional amounts in the physical forward transactions approximate the timing and payment amounts related to our firm transportation and storage contracts. we have not designated these transactions for hedge accounting treatment; therefore, the gains and losses associated with the change in fair value are recorded in operating income. at december 31, 2004, our exposure to risk from currency translation was not material. 57 table of contentsrisk factors 13-16 risk factors our investors should consider the following risks that could affect us and our business. although we have tried to discuss key factors, please be aware that other risks may prove to be important in the future. new risks may emerge at any time and we cannot predict such risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect our financial performance. investors should carefully consider the following discussion of risks and the other information included or incorporated by reference in this annual report on form 10-k, including forward-looking information, which is included in item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation. our nonregulated businesses are riskier than our regulated businesses. our nonregulated operations have a higher level of risk than our regulated operations, which include our utility and natural gas transportation businesses. we expect to continue investing in natural gas projects and other related projects, some or all of which may involve nonregulated businesses or assets. these projects could involve risks associated with operational factors, such as competition and dependence on certain suppliers and customers, and financial, economic and political factors, such as rapid and significant changes in prices of hydrocarbons and energy, the cost and availability of capital and counterparty risk, including the inability of a counterparty, customer or supplier to fulfill a contractual obligation. our businesses are subject to market and credit risks. we are exposed to market and credit risks in all of our operations. to minimize the risk of commodity price fluctuations, we periodically enter into derivative transactions to hedge anticipated purchases and sales of natural gas, ngls, crude oil, fuel requirements and firm transportation commitments. interest rate swaps are also used to manage interest rate risk. however, financial derivative instrument contracts do not eliminate the risks. specifically, such risks include commodity price changes, market supply shortages, interest rate changes and counterparty default. the impact of these variables could result in our inability to fulfill contractual obligations, significantly higher energy or fuel costs relative to corresponding sales contracts, or increased interest expense. increased competition could have a significant adverse financial impact on us. the natural gas industry is expected to remain highly competitive, resulting from deregulation and other initiatives being pursued by the industry and regulatory agencies that allow customers increased options for energy supplies and service. the demand for natural gas is primarily a function of commodity prices, including prices for alternative energy sources, customer usage rates, weather, economic conditions and service costs. our ability to compete also depends on a number of other factors, including competition from other pipelines for our existing load, the efficiency, quality and reliability of the services we provide, and competition for throughput for our gathering systems and processing plants. in the future, we may face additional competition from new entrants to the energy industry as a result of the energy policy act of 2005. this comprehensive legislation signed into law by president bush in august 2005 will substantially affect the regulation of energy companies. among the important changes to be implemented as a result of this act is the repeal of the public utility holding company act of 1935 (puhca), which is effective in february 2006. puhca imposed a number of restrictions, including restrictions on the structure of companies involved in the retail distribution of natural gas. as a result of the repeal of puhca, new competitors may enter the industry. 13 table of contents index to financial statements we cannot predict when we will be subject to other changes in legislation or regulation, nor can we predict the impact of these changes on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. although we believe our businesses are positioned to compete effectively in the energy market, there are no assurances that this will be true in the future. we may not be able to successfully make additional strategic acquisitions or integrate businesses we acquire into our operations. our ability to successfully make strategic acquisitions and investments will depend on: (1) the extent to which acquisitions and investment opportunities become available; (2) our success in bidding for the opportunities that do become available; (3) regulatory approval, if required, of the acquisitions on favorable terms; and (4) our access to capital, including our ability to use our equity in acquisitions or investments, and the terms upon which we obtain capital. if we are unable to make strategic investments and acquisitions, we may be unable to grow. if we are unable to successfully integrate new businesses into our operations, we could experience increased costs and losses on our investments. any reduction in our credit ratings could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. our senior unsecured debt has been assigned a rating by moody investors service, inc. (moody s) of baa2 (stable) and by standard &amp; poor ratings group (s&amp;p) of bbb (creditwatch with negative implications). we will seek to maintain an investment grade rating through prudent capital management and financing structures. however, we cannot provide assurance that any of our current ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances in the future so warrant. specifically, if s&amp;p or moody were to downgrade our long-term rating, particularly below investment grade, our borrowing costs would increase, which would adversely affect our financial results, and our potential pool of investors and funding sources could decrease. further, if our short-term ratings were to fall below a-2 (capacity to meet its financial commitment on the obligation is satisfactory) or p-2 (strong ability to repay short-term debt obligations), the current ratings assigned by s&amp;p and moody s, respectively, it could significantly limit our access to the commercial paper market. any such downgrade of our long- or short-term ratings could increase our cost of capital and reduce the availability of capital and, thus, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. ratings from credit agencies are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our securities. each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. we are subject to comprehensive energy regulation by governmental agencies and the recovery of our costs is dependent on regulatory action. we are subject to comprehensive regulation by several federal, state and municipal utility regulatory agencies, which significantly influences our operating environment and our ability to recover our costs from utility customers. the utility regulatory authorities in oklahoma, kansas and texas regulate many aspects of our utility operations, including customer service and the rates that we can charge customers. federal, state and local agencies also have jurisdiction over many of our other activities, including regulation by the ferc of our storage and interstate pipeline assets. the profitability of our regulated operations is dependent on our ability to pass costs related to providing energy and other commodities through to our customers. the current regulatory environment applicable to our regulated businesses could impair our ability to recover costs historically absorbed by our customers. on october 4, 2005, the occ unanimously approved an annual rate increase of $57.5 million for oklahoma natural gas. kansas gas service began operating under a new rate schedule effective september 22, 2003. as part of the order issued by the kcc, kansas gas service cannot file a new rate case before may 15, 2006. on november 23, 2005, texas gas service filed requests for rate increases in its port arthur and north texas services areas for $2.4 million and $1.1 million, respectively. the municipalities have suspended the proposed rates for 90 days in order to conduct further review of the filings. texas gas service also has an appeal pending in the court of appeals from the rrc 2004 order authorizing an annual revenue increase of approximately $0.9 million in the cities of grove, port neches and nederland, texas. we are unable to predict the impact that the future regulatory activities of these agencies will have on our operating results. changes in regulations or the imposition of additional regulations could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 14 table of contents index to financial statements we are subject to environmental regulations that could be difficult and costly to comply with. we are subject to multiple environmental laws and regulations affecting many aspects of present and future operations, including air emissions, water quality, wastewater discharges, solid wastes and hazardous material and substance management. these laws and regulations generally require us to obtain and comply with a wide variety of environmental registrations, licenses, permits, inspections and other approvals. failure to comply with these laws, regulations, permits and licenses may expose us to fines, penalties and/or interruptions in our operations that could be material to the results of operations. if an accidental leak or spill of hazardous materials occurs from our lines or facilities in the process of transporting natural gas or ngls or at any facility that we own, operate or otherwise use, we could be held jointly and severally liable for all resulting liabilities, including investigation and cleanup costs, which could materially affect our results of operations and cash flow. in addition, emission controls required under the federal clean air act and other similar federal and state laws could require unexpected capital expenditures at our facilities. we cannot provide assurance that existing environmental regulations will not be revised or that new regulations will not be adopted or become applicable to us. revised or additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, particularly if those costs are not fully recoverable from customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we own or retain legal responsibility for the environmental conditions at 12 former manufactured gas sites in kansas. these sites contain potentially harmful materials that are subject to control or remediation under various environmental laws and regulations. a consent agreement with the kdhe presently governs all remediation work at these sites. the terms of the consent agreement allow us to investigate these sites and set remediation activities based upon the results of the investigations and risk analysis. we have commenced active remediation on eight sites, with regulatory closure achieved at two of these locations, and have begun assessments at the four remaining sites. the site situations are not similar, and we have no previous experience with similar remediation efforts. we have completed some analysis of the four remaining sites, but are unable to accurately estimate individual or aggregate costs that may be required to satisfy our remedial obligations. our preliminary review of similar cleanup efforts at former manufactured gas sites reveals that costs can range from $100,000 to $10 million per site. these estimates do not consider potential insurance recoveries, recoveries through rates or from unaffiliated parties, to which we may be entitled. at this time, we have not recorded any amounts for potential insurance recoveries or recoveries from unaffiliated parties, and we are not recovering any environmental amounts in rates. total costs to remediate the two sites, which have achieved regulatory closure, were approximately $700,000. total remedial costs for each of the remaining sites are expected to exceed $500,000 per site, but there is no assurance that costs to investigate and remediate the remaining sites will not be significantly higher. as more information related to the site investigations and remediation activities becomes available, and to the extent such amounts are expected to exceed our current estimates, additional expenses could be recorded. such amounts could be material to our results of operations and cash flows depending on the remediation done and number of years over which the remediation is completed. our expenditures for environmental evaluation and remediation to date have not been significant in relation to our results of operations and there were no material effects upon earnings during 2005 related to compliance with environmental regulations. we are subject to risks that could limit our access to capital, thereby increasing our costs and adversely affecting our results of operations. we have grown rapidly in the last several years as a result of acquisitions. further acquisitions may require additional external capital. if we are not able to access capital at competitive rates, our strategy of enhancing the earnings potential of our existing assets, including through acquisitions of complementary assets or businesses, will be adversely affected. a number of factors could adversely affect our ability to access capital, including: (1) general economic conditions; (2) capital market conditions; (3) market prices for natural gas, ngls and other hydrocarbons; (4) the overall health of the energy and related industries; (5) our ability to maintain our investment-grade credit ratings; and (6) our capital structure. much of our business is capital intensive, and achievement of our long-term growth targets is dependent, at least in part, upon our ability to access capital at rates and on terms we determine to be attractive. if our ability to access capital becomes significantly constrained, our interest costs will likely increase and our financial condition and future results of operations could be significantly harmed. our business could be adversely affected by strikes or work stoppages by our unionized employees. as of february 28, 2006, approximately 782 of our 4,558 employees were represented by labor unions under collective bargaining agreements. we are involved periodically in discussions with labor unions representing some of our employees to negotiate or renegotiate labor agreements. we cannot predict the results of these negotiations, including whether any failure 15 table of contents index to financial statements to reach new agreements will have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations or whether we will be able to reach any agreement with the unions. any failure to reach agreement on new labor contracts might result in a work stoppage. any future work stoppage could, depending on the operations and the length of the work stoppage, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we do not fully hedge against price changes in commodities. this could result in decreased revenues and increased costs, thereby resulting in lower margins and adversely affecting our results of operations. our nonregulated businesses are exposed to market risk and the impact of market price fluctuations of natural gas, ngls, crude oil and power prices. market risk refers to the risk of loss in cash flows and future earnings arising from adverse changes in commodity energy prices. our primary exposure arises from fixed price purchase or sale agreements that extend for periods of up to five years, natural gas in storage utilized by our energy services segment, ngls in storage utilized by our natural gas liquids segment and the difference between natural gas and ngl prices with respect to our keep whole processing agreements. to a lesser extent, we are exposed to the risk of changing prices or the cost of transportation resulting from purchasing natural gas or ngls at one location and selling it at another (referred to as basis risk). to minimize the risk from market price fluctuations of natural gas, ngls and crude oil, we use commodity derivative instruments such as futures contracts, swaps and options to manage market risk of existing or anticipated purchases and sales of natural gas, ngls and crude oil. we adhere to policies and procedures that limit our exposure to market risk from open positions and that monitor our market risk exposure. our distribution segment uses storage to minimize the volatility of natural gas costs by placing natural gas in storage during the summer months for consumption in the winter months. in addition, various natural gas supply contracts allow us the option to convert index-based purchases to fixed prices. also, we use derivative instruments to hedge the cost of anticipated natural gas purchases during the winter heating months to protect kansas gas services customers from upward volatility in the market price of natural gas. we could be subject to claims arising out of our ownership of a majority of the general partnership interest in northern border partners, lp, a publicly traded limited partnership. in november 2004, we acquired northern plains, which owns 82.5 percent of the general partnership interest and 500,000 limited partnership units, together representing a 2.73 percent ownership interest, in northern border partners, a publicly traded limited partnership. as the holder of a majority of the general partnership interests in northern border partners we have certain duties and responsibilities. although we do not expect to incur any material liability relating to such duties or responsibilities, we cannot provide assurance that such claims will not arise or that any claims that do arise will not have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operation. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 52-55 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk commodity price risk non-regulated businesses, including energy services - we are exposed to market risk and the impact of market price fluctuations of natural gas, ngls, crude oil and power prices. market risk refers to the risk of loss in cash flows and future earnings arising from adverse changes in commodity energy prices. our primary exposure arises from fixed price purchase or sale agreements that extend for periods of up to three years, natural gas in storage utilized by our energy services segment, ngls in storage utilized by our natural gas liquids segment, the difference in price between natural gas and ngl prices with respect to our keep whole processing agreements, and purchases of natural gas and crude oil. to a lesser extent, we are exposed to the risk of changing prices or the cost of intervening transportation resulting from purchasing natural gas and ngls at one location and selling it at another (referred to as basis risk). to minimize the risk from market price fluctuations of natural gas, ngls and crude oil, we use commodity derivative instruments such as futures contracts, swaps and options to manage market risk of existing or anticipated purchase and sale agreements, existing physical natural gas in storage, and basis risk. we adhere to policies and procedures that limit our exposure to market risk from open positions and that monitor our market risk exposure. the following table sets forth the fair value component of the energy marketing and risk management assets and liabilities, excluding derivative instruments that have been declared as either fair value or cash flow hedges. fair value component of energy marketing and risk management assets and liabilities (thousands of dollars) net fair value of contracts outstanding at december 31, 2004 $ 17,951 contracts realized or otherwise settled during the period 18,326 fair value of new contracts when entered into during the period 3,596 other changes in fair value (9,537 ) net fair value of contracts outstanding at december 31, 2005 $ 30,336 the net fair value of contracts outstanding includes the effect of settled energy contracts and current period changes resulting primarily from newly originated transactions and the impact of market movements on the fair value of energy marketing and risk management assets and liabilities. fair value estimates consider the market in which the transactions are executed. the market in which exchange traded and over-the-counter transactions are executed is a factor in determining fair value. we 52 table of contents index to financial statements utilize third-party references for pricing points from nymex and third-party over-the-counter brokers to establish the commodity pricing and volatility curves. we believe the reported transactions from these sources are the most reflective of current market prices. fair values are subject to change based on valuation factors. the estimate of fair value includes an adjustment for the liquidation of the position in an orderly manner over a reasonable period of time under current market conditions. the fair value estimate also considers the risk of nonperformance based on credit considerations of the counterparty. the following table sets forth the maturity schedule of our energy trading contracts based on the heating season from april through march. this maturity schedule is consistent with our business strategy. fair value of contracts at december 31, 2005 fair value (a) matures through march 2006 matures through march 2009 matures through march 2011 total fair value (thousands of dollars) prices actively quoted (b) $ 80,531 $ 4,522 $ $ 85,053 prices provided by other external sources (c) (43,316 ) 11,289 (1,731 ) (33,758 ) prices derived from quotes, other external sources and other assumptions (d) (6,864 ) (17,046 ) 2,951 (20,959 ) total $ 30,351 $ (1,235 ) $ 1,220 $ 30,336 (a) fair value is the mark-to-market component of forwards, futures, swaps and options, net of applicable reserves. these fair values are reflected as a component of assets and liabilities from energy marketing and risk management activities in our consolidated balance sheets. (b) values are derived from the energy market price quotes from national commodity trading exchanges that primarily trade future and option commodity contracts. (c) values are obtained through energy commodity brokers or electronic trading platforms, whose primary service is to match willing buyers and sellers of energy commodities. energy price information by location is readily available because of the large energy broker network. (d) values derived in this category utilize market price information from the other two categories, as well as other assumptions for liquidity and credit. the following table sets forth our energy services segment financial and commodity risk from fixed-price transactions at december 31, 2005. investment grade credit quality (a) below investment grade credit quality (thousands of dollars) gas and electric utilities $ (27,873 ) $ (16,859 ) financial institutions (45,844 ) oil and gas producers 14,719 12,209 industrial and commercial 5,262 7,320 other (28,571 ) 565 net value of fixed-price transactions $ (82,307 ) $ 3,235 (a) investment grade is primarily determined using publicly available credit ratings along with consideration of cash prepayments, cash managing, standby letters of credit and parent company guarantees. included in investment grade are counterparties with a minimum s&amp;p rating of bbb- or moody rating of baa3. for further discussion of trading activities, see the critical accounting policies and estimates section of item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation in this annual report on form 10-k. also, see note d of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k. 53 table of contents index to financial statements regulated businesses - kansas gas service uses derivative instruments to hedge the cost of anticipated natural gas purchases during the winter heating months to protect kansas gas service customers from upward volatility in the market price of natural gas. at december 31, 2005, kansas gas service had derivative instruments in place to hedge the cost of natural gas purchases for 2.4 bcf, which represents part of their gas purchase requirements for the 2005/2006 winter heating months. gains or losses associated with the kansas gas service hedges are included in and recoverable through the monthly pga. value-at-risk (var) disclosure of market risk - we measure market risk in the energy marketing and risk management, trading and non-trading portfolios of our non-regulated businesses using a var methodology, which estimates the expected maximum loss of the portfolio over a specified time horizon within a given confidence interval. our var calculations are based on the monte carlo approach. the quantification of market risk using var provides a consistent measure of risk across diverse energy markets and products with different risk factors in order to set overall risk tolerance, to determine risk targets and set position limits. the use of this methodology requires a number of key assumptions, including the selection of a confidence level and the holding period to liquidation. inputs to the calculation include prices, volatilities, positions, instrument valuations and the variance-covariance matrix. historical data is used to estimate our var with more weight given to recent data, which is considered a more relevant predictor of immediate future commodity market movements. we rely on var to determine the potential reduction in the portfolio values arising from changes in market conditions over a defined period. while management believes that the referenced assumptions and approximations are reasonable, no uniform industry methodology exists for estimating var. different assumptions and approximations could produce materially different var estimates. our var exposure represents an estimate of potential losses that would be recognized for our non-regulated businesses energy marketing and risk management, non-trading and trading portfolios of derivative financial instruments, physical contracts and natural gas in storage due to adverse market movements. a one-day time horizon and a 95 percent confidence level were used in our var data. actual future gains and losses will differ from those estimated by the var calculation based on actual fluctuations in commodity prices, operating exposures and timing thereof, and the changes in our derivative financial instruments, physical contracts and natural gas in storage. var information should be evaluated in light of these assumptions and the methodology other limitations. the potential impact on our future earnings, as measured by the var, was $30.1 million and $9.6 million at december 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. the following table details the average, high and low var calculations. years ended december 31, value-at-risk 2005 2004 (millions of dollars) average $ 16.4 $ 3.8 high $ 44.0 $ 17.7 low $ 6.2 $ 0.6 the variations in the var data are reflective of market volatility and changes in the portfolios during the year. the 2005 increase in var, compared with 2004, is primarily due to the increase in natural gas prices in the third and fourth quarters of 2005, which mainly resulted from supply disruption caused by hurricane katrina and hurricane rita. risk policy and oversight - we control the scope of risk management, marketing and trading operations through a comprehensive set of policies and procedures involving senior levels of management. the audit committee of our board of directors has oversight responsibilities for our risk management limits and policies. our risk oversight committee, comprised of corporate officers, oversees all activities related to commodity price, credit and interest rate risk management, and marketing and trading activities. the committee also proposes risk metrics including var and dollar loss limits. we have a corporate risk control organization led by our senior vice president of financial services and treasurer and our vice president of audit and risk control, who are assigned responsibility for establishing and enforcing the policies, procedures and limits. key risk control activities include credit review and approval, credit and performance risk measurement and monitoring, validation of transactions, portfolio valuation, var and other risk metrics. to the extent open commodity positions exist, fluctuating commodity prices can impact our financial results and financial position either favorably or unfavorably. as a result, we cannot predict with precision the impact risk management decisions may have on the business, operating results or financial position. 54 table of contents index to financial statements interest rate and currency risk interest rate risk - we are subject to the risk of interest rate fluctuation in the normal course of business. we manage interest rate risk through the use of fixed rate debt, floating rate debt and, at times, interest rate swaps. fixed rate swaps are used to reduce our risk of increased interest costs during periods of rising interest rates. floating rate swaps are used to convert the fixed rates of long-term borrowings into short-term variable rates. at december 31, 2005, the interest rate on 82.8 percent of our long-term debt was fixed after considering the impact of interest rate swaps. during the first quarter of 2005, we terminated $400 million of our interest rate swap agreements and paid a net amount of $19.4 million, which included $20.2 million for the present value of future payments at the time of termination, less $0.8 million for interest rate savings through the termination of the swaps. during the first quarter of 2004, we terminated $670 million of our interest rate swap agreements and received $81.9 million. the net savings from the termination of these swaps is being recognized in interest expense over the terms of the debt instruments originally hedged. net interest expense savings for 2005 for all terminated swaps was $7.7 million, and the remaining net savings for all terminated swaps will be recognized over the following periods: 2006 $ 6.8 million 2007 $ 6.6 million 2008 $ 6.6 million 2009 $ 5.6 million 2010 $ 5.5 million thereafter $ 15.3 million currently, $340 million of fixed rate debt is swapped to floating. the floating rate debt is based on both the three- and six-month london interbank offered rate (libor). at december 31, 2005, we recorded a net liability of $7.3 million to recognize the interest rate swaps at fair value. long-term debt was decreased by $7.3 million to recognize the change in the fair value of the related hedged liability. see note i. total swap savings for 2005 were $10.7 million, compared with the savings of $27.6 million in 2004. prior to the issuance of the $800 million of notes in the second quarter of 2005, we entered into $500 million in treasury rate-lock agreements to hedge the changes in cash flows of our anticipated interest payments from changes in treasury rates prior to the issuance of the notes. upon issuance of the notes in june 2005, the treasury rate-lock agreements terminated, which resulted in our paying $2.4 million. this amount, net of tax, has been recorded to accumulated other comprehensive loss and will be recognized in the income statement over the term of the related debt issuances. at december 31, 2005, a 100 basis point move in the annual interest rate on all of our outstanding long-term debt would change our annual interest expense by $3.4 million before taxes. this 100 basis point change assumes a parallel shift in the yield curve. if interest rates changed significantly, we would take actions to manage our exposure to the change. since a specific action and the possible effects are uncertain, no change has been assumed. currency rate risk - with our energy services segment expansion into canada, we are subject to currency exposure related to our firm transportation and storage contracts. our objective with respect to currency risk is to reduce the exposure due to exchange-rate fluctuations. we use physical forward transactions, which result in an actual two-way flow of currency on the settlement date since we exchange u.s. dollars for canadian dollars with another party. we have not designated these transactions for hedge accounting treatment; therefore, the gains and losses associated with the change in fair value are recorded in net margin. at december 31, 2005 and 2004, our exposure to risk from currency translation was not material. 55 table of contents index to financial statementsrisk factors 14-21 risk factors our investors should consider the following risks that could affect us and our business. although we have tried to discuss key factors, please be aware that other risks may prove to be important in the future. new risks may emerge at any time, and we cannot predict such risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect our financial performance. investors should carefully consider the following discussion of risks and the other information included or incorporated by reference in this annual report on form 10-k, including forward-looking statements and risk factors, which is included in item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation. risk factors inherent in our business our cash flow depends heavily on the earnings and distributions of oneok partners. some of our largest cash-generating assets are our partnership interests in oneok partners. therefore, our cash flow is heavily dependent upon the ability of oneok partners to make distributions to its partners. a significant decline in oneok partners earnings and/or cash distributions would have a corresponding negative impact on us. for information on the risk factors inherent in the business of oneok partners, see the section below entitled risk factors related to oneok partners business and the oneok partners 2006 annual report on form 10-k. our nonregulated businesses have a higher level of risk than our regulated businesses. our nonregulated operations have a higher level of risk than our regulated operations, which include our utility and natural gas transportation businesses. we expect to continue investing in natural gas projects and other related projects, some or all of which may involve nonregulated businesses or assets. these projects could involve risks associated with operational factors, such as competition and dependence on certain suppliers and customers, and financial, economic and political factors, such as rapid and significant changes in commodity prices, the cost and availability of capital and counterparty risk, including the inability of a counterparty, customer or supplier to fulfill a contractual obligation. our distribution companies have recorded certain assets that may not be recoverable from their customers. accounting policies for our local distribution companies permit certain assets that result from the regulatory process to be recorded on our balance sheet that could not be recorded under gaap for nonregulated entities. we consider factors such as rate orders from regulators, previous rate orders for substantially similar costs, written approval from the regulator and analysis of recoverability from internal and external legal counsel to determine the probability of future recovery of these assets. if we determine future recovery is no longer probable, we would be required to write off the regulatory assets at that time. our businesses are subject to market and credit risks. we are exposed to market and credit risks in all of our operations. to minimize the risk of commodity price fluctuations, we periodically enter into derivative transactions to hedge anticipated purchases and sales of natural gas, ngls, crude oil, fuel requirements and firm transportation commitments. interest rate swaps are also used to manage interest rate risk. currency swaps are used to mitigate unexpected changes that may occur in anticipated revenue streams of our canadian natural gas sales and purchases driven by currency rate fluctuations. however, financial derivative instrument contracts do not eliminate the risks. specifically, such risks include commodity price changes, market supply shortages, interest rate changes and counterparty default. the impact of these variables could result in our inability to fulfill contractual obligations, significantly higher energy or fuel costs relative to corresponding sales contracts, or increased interest expense. we are subject to the risk of loss resulting from nonpayment and/or nonperformance by customers of our energy services segment. the customers of our energy services segment are predominantly local distribution companies, industrial customers, natural gas producers and marketers that may experience deterioration of their financial condition as a result of changing market conditions or financial difficulties that could impact their credit-worthiness or ability to pay for our services. although we attempt to obtain adequate security for these risks, if we fail to adequately assess the credit-worthiness of 14 table of contents existing or future customers, unanticipated deterioration in their credit-worthiness and any resulting nonpayment and/or nonperformance could adversely impact results of operations for our energy services segment. in addition, if any of our energy services segment customers filed for bankruptcy protection, we may not be able to recover amounts owed which would negatively impact the results of operations for our energy services segment. increased competition could have a significant adverse financial impact on us. the natural gas industry is expected to remain highly competitive, resulting from deregulation and other initiatives being pursued by the industry and regulatory agencies that allow customers increased options for energy supplies and service. the demand for natural gas and ngls is primarily a function of commodity prices, including prices for alternative energy sources, customer usage rates, weather, economic conditions and service costs. our ability to compete also depends on a number of other factors, including competition from other pipelines for our existing load, the efficiency, quality and reliability of the services we provide, and competition for throughput for our gathering systems and processing plants. in the future, we may face additional competition from new entrants to the energy industry as a result of the energy policy act of 2005. this comprehensive legislation signed into law by president bush in august 2005 has substantially affected the regulation of energy companies. among the important changes this act implemented was the repeal of the public utility holding company act of 1935 (puhca), which became effective in february 2006. puhca imposed a number of restrictions, including constraints on the structure of companies involved in the retail distribution of natural gas. as a result of the repeal of puhca, new competitors may enter the industry. we cannot predict when we will be subject to other changes in legislation or regulation, nor can we predict the impact of these changes on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. although we believe our businesses are positioned to compete effectively in the energy market, there are no assurances that this will be true in the future. we may not be able to successfully make additional strategic acquisitions or integrate businesses we acquire into our operations. our ability to successfully make strategic acquisitions and investments will depend on: (1) the extent to which acquisitions and investment opportunities become available; (2) our success in bidding for the opportunities that do become available; (3) regulatory approval, if required, of the acquisitions on favorable terms; and (4) our access to capital, including our ability to use our equity in acquisitions or investments, and the terms upon which we obtain capital. if we are unable to make strategic investments and acquisitions, we may be unable to grow. if we are unable to successfully integrate new businesses into our operations, we could experience increased costs and losses on our investments. any reduction in our credit ratings could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. our senior unsecured debt has been assigned a rating by s&amp;p of bbb (stable) and moody of baa2 (stable). we will seek to maintain an investment grade rating through prudent capital management and financing structures. however, we cannot provide assurance that any of our current ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances in the future so warrant. specifically, if s&amp;p or moody were to downgrade our long-term rating, particularly below investment grade, our borrowing costs would increase, which would adversely affect our financial results, and our potential pool of investors and funding sources could decrease. further, if our short-term ratings were to fall below a-2 (capacity to meet its financial commitment on the obligation is satisfactory) or p-2 (strong ability to repay short-term debt obligations), the current ratings assigned by s&amp;p and moody s, respectively, it could significantly limit our access to the commercial paper market. any such downgrade of our long- or short-term ratings could increase our cost of capital and reduce the availability of capital and, thus, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. ratings from credit agencies are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our securities. each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. a downgrade in our credit ratings below investment grade would negatively affect the operations of our wholesale marketing business. if our credit ratings fall below investment grade, ratings triggers and/or adequate assurance clauses in many of our financial and wholesale physical contracts would be in effect. a ratings trigger or adequate assurance clause gives a counterparty the right to suspend or terminate the agreement unless margining thresholds are met. the additional increase in capital required to support our wholesale marketing business would negatively impact our ability to compete, as well as our ability to actively manage the risk associated with existing storage and transportation contracts. 15 table of contents we are subject to comprehensive energy regulation by governmental agencies and the recovery of our costs is dependent on regulatory action. we are subject to comprehensive regulation by several federal, state and municipal utility regulatory agencies, which significantly influences our operating environment and our ability to recover our costs from utility customers. the utility regulatory authorities in oklahoma, kansas and texas regulate many aspects of our utility operations, including customer service and the rates that we can charge customers. federal, state and local agencies also have jurisdiction over many of our other activities, including regulation by the ferc of our storage and interstate pipeline assets. the profitability of our regulated operations is dependent on our ability to pass costs related to providing energy and other commodities through to our customers. the regulatory environment applicable to our regulated businesses could impair our ability to recover costs historically absorbed by our customers. we are unable to predict the impact that the future regulatory activities of these agencies will have on our operating results. changes in regulations or the imposition of additional regulations could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to environmental regulations that could be difficult and costly to comply with. we are subject to multiple environmental laws and regulations affecting many aspects of present and future operations, including air emissions, water quality, wastewater discharges, solid wastes and hazardous material and substance management. these laws and regulations generally require us to obtain and comply with a wide variety of environmental registrations, licenses, permits, inspections and other approvals. failure to comply with these laws, regulations, permits and licenses may expose us to fines, penalties and/or interruptions in our operations that could be material to the results of operations. if an accidental leak or spill of hazardous materials occurs from our lines or facilities, in the process of transporting natural gas or ngls, or at any facility that we own, operate or otherwise use, we could be held jointly and severally liable for all resulting liabilities, including investigation and clean-up costs, which could materially affect our results of operations and cash flows. in addition, emission controls required under the federal clean air act and other similar federal and state laws could require unexpected capital expenditures at our facilities. we cannot assure that existing environmental regulations will not be revised or that new regulations will not be adopted or become applicable to us. revised or additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, particularly if those costs are not fully recoverable from customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. for further discussion on this topic, see item 1, environmental matters. we are subject to risks that could limit our access to capital, thereby increasing our costs and adversely affecting our results of operations. we have grown rapidly in the last several years as a result of acquisitions. further acquisitions may require additional external capital. if we are not able to access capital at competitive rates, our strategy of enhancing the earnings potential of our existing assets, including through acquisitions of complementary assets or businesses, will be adversely affected. a number of factors could adversely affect our ability to access capital, including: (1) general economic conditions; (2) capital market conditions; (3) market prices for natural gas, ngls and other hydrocarbons; (4) the overall health of the energy and related industries; (5) our ability to maintain our investment-grade credit ratings; and (6) our capital structure. much of our business is capital intensive, and achievement of our long-term growth targets is dependent, at least in part, upon our ability to access capital at rates and on terms we determine to be attractive. if our ability to access capital becomes significantly constrained, our interest costs will likely increase and our financial condition and future results of operations could be significantly harmed. our business could be adversely affected by strikes or work stoppages by our unionized employees. as of january 31, 2007, 760 of our 4,536 employees were represented by labor unions under collective bargaining agreements. we are involved periodically in discussions with labor unions representing some of our employees to negotiate or renegotiate labor agreements. we cannot predict the results of these negotiations, including whether any failure to reach new agreements will have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations or whether we will be able to reach any agreement with the unions. any failure to reach agreement on new labor contracts might result in a work stoppage. any future work stoppage could, depending on the operations and the length of the work stoppage, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 16 table of contents we do not fully hedge against price changes in commodities. this could result in decreased revenues and increased costs, thereby resulting in lower margins and adversely affecting our results of operations. our nonregulated businesses are exposed to market risk and the impact of market price fluctuations of natural gas, ngls, crude oil and power prices. market risk refers to the risk of loss of cash flows and future earnings arising from adverse changes in commodity energy prices. our primary exposure arises from fixed-price physical purchase or sale agreements that extend for periods of up to five years, natural gas in storage utilized by our energy services segment, commodity prices with respect to oneok partners pop processing contracts and the difference between natural gas and ngl prices with respect to oneok partners keep-whole processing agreements. oneok partners and our energy services segment are also exposed to the risk of changing prices or the cost of transportation resulting from purchasing natural gas or ngls at one location and selling it at another (referred to as basis risk). to minimize the risk from market price fluctuations of natural gas, ngls and crude oil, we use commodity derivative instruments such as futures contracts, swaps and options to manage market risk of existing or anticipated purchases and sales of natural gas, ngls and crude oil. we adhere to policies and procedures that limit our exposure to market risk from open positions and that monitor our market risk exposure. however, we do not fully hedge against commodity price changes, and therefore, we retain some exposure to market risk. accordingly, any adverse changes to commodity prices could result in decreased revenue and increased costs. our distribution segment uses storage to minimize the volatility of natural gas costs for our customers by storing natural gas in periods of low demand for consumption in peak demand periods. in addition, various natural gas supply contracts allow us the option to convert index-based purchases to fixed prices. also, we use derivative instruments to hedge the cost of anticipated natural gas purchases during the winter heating months to protect kansas gas services customers from upward volatility in the market price of natural gas. texas gas service also has a natural gas hedging program for certain of its jurisdictions. although we control oneok partners, we may have conflicts of interest with oneok partners which could subject us to claims that we have breached our fiduciary duty to oneok partners and its unitholders. we own 100 percent of the general partner interest and a 43.7 percent limited partner interest in oneok partners. conflicts of interest may arise between us and oneok partners and its unitholders. in resolving these conflicts, we may favor our own interests and the interests of our affiliates over the interests of oneok partners and its unitholders as long as the resolution does not conflict with the oneok partners partnership agreement or our fiduciary duties to oneok partners. risk factors related to oneok partners business the volatility of natural gas and ngl prices could adversely affect oneok partners cash flow. a significant portion of oneok partners natural gas gathering and processing revenue is derived from the sale of commodities received as payment for its gathering and processing services. additionally, certain of oneok partners gas gathering and processing assets in oklahoma and kansas have keep-whole processing contracts, under which oneok partners extracts ngls and returns to the producer volumes of merchantable natural gas containing the same amount of btus that were removed as ngls. this type of contract exposes oneok partners to the keep-whole spread, or gross processing spread, which is the relative difference in the prices of natural gas and ngls on a btu basis. as a result, oneok partners is sensitive to natural gas and ngl price fluctuations. natural gas and ngl prices have been and are likely to continue to be volatile in the future. high natural gas and ngl prices and processing spreads may not continue and could drop precipitously in a short period of time. the prices of natural gas and ngls are subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors beyond oneok partners control, including the following: relatively minor changes in the supply of, and demand for, domestic and foreign natural gas and ngls; market uncertainty; the availability and cost of transportation capacity; the level of consumer product demand; geopolitical conditions impacting supply and demand for natural gas and crude oil; weather conditions; domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; the price and availability of alternative fuels; speculation in the commodity futures markets; overall domestic and global economic conditions; the price of natural gas and ngl imports; and the effect of worldwide energy conservation measures. 17 table of contents these external factors and the volatile nature of the energy markets make it difficult to reliably estimate future prices of natural gas and ngls. as natural gas and ngl prices decline, oneok partners is paid less for its commodities, thereby reducing its cash flow. in addition, production and related volumes could also decline. oneok partners inability to execute growth and development projects and acquire new assets could reduce cash distributions to unitholders. oneok partners primary business objectives are to generate cash flow sufficient to pay quarterly cash distributions to unitholders and to increase quarterly cash distributions over time. oneok partners ability to maintain and grow its distributions to unitholders depends on the growth of its existing businesses and strategic acquisitions. accordingly, if oneok partners is unable to implement business development opportunities and finance such activities on economically acceptable terms, future growth will be limited, which could adversely impact the results of operations. oneok partners does not fully hedge against price changes in commodities. this could result in decreased revenues, increased costs and lower margins, thereby adversely affecting the results of oneok partners operations. the oneok partners businesses are exposed to market risk and the impact of market fluctuations in natural gas, ngls, crude oil and power prices. market risk refers to the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in commodity energy prices. oneok partners primary exposure arises from the difference between natural gas and ngl prices with respect to its keep-whole processing agreements, commodity prices with respect to its pop processing agreements, and the differential between the individual ngl purity products and ngls in storage utilized by its natural gas liquids operations. to manage the risk from market fluctuations in natural gas, ngl and condensate prices, oneok partners uses commodity derivative instruments such as futures contracts, swaps and options. however, it does not fully hedge against commodity price changes, and it therefore retains some exposure to market risk. accordingly, any adverse changes to commodity prices could result in decreased revenue and increased costs for oneok partners. if the level of drilling and production in the mid-continent, rocky mountain and gulf coast regions substantially declines, oneok partners volumes and revenue could decline. oneok partners ability to maintain or expand its businesses depends largely on the level of drilling and production in the mid-continent, rocky mountain and gulf coast regions. drilling and production are impacted by factors beyond oneok partners control, including: demand for natural gas and refinery-grade crude oil; producers desire and ability to obtain necessary permits in a timely and economic manner; natural gas field characteristics and production performance; surface access and infrastructure issues; and capacity constraints on natural gas, crude oil and natural gas liquids pipelines from the producing areas and oneok partners facilities. in addition, drilling and production are impacted by environmental regulations governing water discharge. if the level of drilling and production in any of these regions substantially declines, oneok partners volumes and revenue could be reduced. pipeline integrity programs and repairs may impose significant costs and liabilities. in december 2003, the united states department of transportation issued a final rule requiring pipeline operators to develop integrity management programs for intrastate and interstate natural gas and natural gas liquids pipelines located near high consequence areas, where a leak or rupture could do the most harm. the final rule requires operators to perform ongoing assessments of pipeline integrity; identify and characterize applicable threats to pipeline segments that could impact a high consequence area; improve data collection, integration and analysis; repair and remediate the pipeline as necessary; and implement preventive and mitigating actions. the final rule incorporates the requirements of the pipeline safety improvement act of 2002 and became effective in january 2004. the results of these testing programs could cause oneok partners to incur significant capital and operating expenditures to make repairs or take remediation, preventive or mitigating actions that are determined to be necessary. 18 table of contents growing oneok partners business by constructing new pipelines and new processing and treating facilities or making modifications to its existing facilities subjects oneok partners to construction risks and risks that adequate natural gas or ngl supplies will not be available upon completion of the facilities. one of the ways oneok partners intends to grow its business is through the construction of additions and modifications to its existing pipeline systems, plants and fractionators and construction of new pipelines and new gathering, processing and treatment facilities. the construction and modification of pipelines and gathering, processing, fractionation and treatment facilities requires the expenditure of significant amounts of capital, which may exceed oneok partners expectations, and involves numerous regulatory, environmental, political and legal uncertainties. construction projects in oneok partners industry may increase demand on labor and material which may in turn impact costs and schedule. if oneok partners undertakes these projects, it may not be able to complete them on schedule or at the budgeted cost. additionally, oneok partners revenues may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project. for instance, if oneok partners builds a new pipeline, the construction will occur over an extended period of time, and oneok partners will not receive any material increases in revenues until after completion of the project. oneok partners may have only limited natural gas or ngl supplies committed to these facilities prior to their construction. additionally, oneok partners may construct facilities to capture anticipated future growth in production in a region in which anticipated production growth does not materialize. oneok partners may also rely on estimates of proved reserves in oneok partners decision to construct new pipelines and facilities, which may prove to be inaccurate because there are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves. as a result, new facilities may not be able to attract enough natural gas or ngls to achieve oneok partners expected investment return, which could adversely affect oneok partners results of operations and financial condition. if production from the western canada sedimentary basin remains flat or declines and demand for natural gas from the western canada sedimentary basin is greater in market areas other than the midwestern united states, demand for oneok partners transportation services could significantly decrease. oneok partners depends on natural gas supply from the western canada sedimentary basin because oneok partners interstate natural gas pipelines segment transports primarily canadian natural gas from the western canada sedimentary basin to the midwestern u.s. market area. if demand for natural gas increases in canada or other markets not served by oneok partners pipelines and production remains flat or declines, demand for transportation service on oneok partners interstate natural gas pipelines could decrease significantly, which could adversely impact oneok partners results of operations. oneok partners regulated natural gas pipelines transportation rates are subject to review and possible adjustment by federal regulators. oneok partners regulated pipelines are subject to extensive regulation by the ferc and state regulatory agencies, which regulates most aspects of oneok partners pipeline business, including oneok partners transportation rates. under the natural gas act, interstate transportation rates must be just and reasonable and not unduly discriminatory. under northern border pipeline 2006 rate case settlement, there is a three-year moratorium preventing northern border pipeline from filing rate cases and the participants from challenging northern border pipeline rates, and a requirement that northern border pipeline file a rate case within six years. in the competition for customers, oneok partners may have significant levels of uncontracted or discounted transportation capacity on its natural gas pipelines. oneok partners pipeline and storage and interstate natural gas pipelines businesses compete with other pipelines for natural gas supplies delivered to the markets it serves. as a result of competition, oneok partners may have significant levels of uncontracted or discounted capacity on its pipelines, which could adversely impact oneok partners results of operations. oneok partners interstate natural gas pipelines have recorded certain assets that may not be recoverable from its customers. accounting policies for ferc-regulated companies permit certain assets that result from the regulated ratemaking process to be recorded on the oneok partners balance sheet that could not be recorded under gaap for nonregulated entities. oneok partners considers factors such as regulatory changes and the impact of competition to determine the probability of future recovery of these assets. if oneok partners determines future recovery is no longer probable, oneok partners would be required to write off the regulatory assets at that time. 19 table of contents the composition of natural gas received by oneok partners pipelines could reduce oneok partners available transportation capacity and increase its operating expenses. if the energy content of the natural gas received by oneok partners pipelines is below the energy equivalent specified under oneok partners transportation contracts, oneok partners must transport additional natural gas to meet its contractual commitments. the transportation of this additional natural gas reduces the available transportation capacity on oneok partners pipelines and could negatively impact oneok partners operating revenue. oneok partners operations are subject to federal and state laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, which may expose it to significant costs and liabilities. the risk of incurring substantial environmental costs and liabilities is inherent in oneok partners operations. oneok partners operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into, or otherwise relating to the protection of, the environment. examples of these laws include: the federal clean air act and analogous state laws that impose obligations related to air emissions; the federal clean water act and analogous state laws that regulate discharge of wastewaters from oneok partners facilities to state and federal waters; the federal comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act and analogous state laws that regulate the cleanup of hazardous substances that may have been released at properties currently or previously owned or operated by oneok partners or locations to which oneok partners has sent waste for disposal; and the federal resource conservation and recovery act and analogous state laws that impose requirements for the handling and discharge of solid and hazardous waste from oneok partners facilities. various governmental authorities, including the united states epa, have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them. violators are subject to administrative, civil and criminal penalties, including civil fines, injunctions or both. joint and several, strict liability may be incurred without regard to fault under the comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act, resource conservation and recovery act and analogous state laws for the remediation of contaminated areas. there is inherent risk of the incurrence of environmental costs and liabilities in oneok partners business due to its handling of the products it gathers, transports and processes, air emissions related to its operations, historical industry operations and waste disposal practices, some of which may be material. private parties, including the owners of properties through which oneok partners pipeline systems pass, may have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as to seek damages for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage arising from oneok partners operations. some sites oneok partners operates are located near current or former third-party hydrocarbon storage and processing operations and there is a risk that contamination has migrated from those sites to oneok partners sites. in addition, increasingly strict laws, regulations and enforcement policies could significantly increase oneok partners compliance costs and the cost of any remediation that may become necessary, some of which may be material. oneok partners insurance may not cover all environmental risks and costs or may not provide sufficient coverage in the event an environmental claim is made against oneok partners. oneok partners business may be adversely affected by increased costs due to stricter pollution control requirements or liabilities resulting from non-compliance with required operating or other regulatory permits. new environmental regulations might also adversely affect oneok partners products and activities and federal and state agencies could impose additional safety requirements, all of which could materially affect oneok partners profitability. oneok partners is exposed to the credit risk of its customers and its credit risk management may not be adequate to protect against such risk. oneok partners is subject to the risk of loss resulting from nonpayment and/or nonperformance by oneok partners customers. oneok partners customers are predominantly natural gas producers and marketers that may experience deterioration of their financial condition as a result of changing market conditions or financial difficulties that could impact their credit-worthiness or ability to pay oneok partners for its services. oneok partners has obtained the maximum security allowed under the ferc credit-worthiness policy for its ferc-regulated assets. if oneok partners fails to adequately assess the credit-worthiness of existing or future customers, unanticipated deterioration in their credit-worthiness and any resulting nonpayment and/or nonperformance could adversely impact oneok partners results of operations. in addition, if any of oneok partners customers filed for bankruptcy protection, it may not be able to recover amounts owed 20 table of contents or resell the capacity held by such customer, which would negatively impact oneok partners results of operations. any reduction in the oneok partners credit ratings could materially and adversely affect its business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. oneok partners senior unsecured debt has been assigned a rating by moody of baa2 (stable), by s&amp;p of bbb (stable) and by fitch of bbb (stable). oneok partners will seek to maintain an investment grade rating through prudent capital management and financing structures. however, oneok partners cannot provide assurance that any of its current ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances in the future so warrant. specifically, if moody and s&amp;p were to downgrade oneok partners long-term rating, particularly below investment grade, its borrowing costs would increase, which would adversely affect its financial results, and its potential pool of investors and funding sources could decrease. ratings from credit agencies are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold oneok partners securities. each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. oneok partners use of financial instruments to hedge market risk may result in reduced income. oneok partners utilizes financial instruments to mitigate its exposure to interest rate and commodity price fluctuations. hedging instruments that are used to reduce its exposure to interest rate fluctuations could expose it to risk of financial loss where it has contracted for variable-rate swap instruments to hedge fixed-rate instruments and the variable rate exceeds the fixed rate. in addition, these hedging arrangements may limit the benefit oneok partners would otherwise receive if it has contracted for fixed-rate swap agreements to hedge variable-rate instruments and the variable rate falls below the fixed rate. hedging arrangements that are used to reduce oneok partners exposure to commodity price fluctuations may limit the benefit oneok partners would otherwise receive if market prices for natural gas and ngls exceed the stated price in the hedge instrument for these commodities. oneok partners inability to execute growth and development projects related to its interstate pipelines and acquire new assets could reduce cash distributions to its unitholders. oneok partners interstate natural gas pipelines are generally allowed to collect a return on its assets recorded book value, generally referred to as rate base, in its transportation rates. oneok partners interstate pipelines must maintain or increase the book value of its assets through growth projects in order to maintain or increase the return collected on oneok partners rate base. accordingly, if oneok partners is unable to implement business development opportunities and finance such activities on economically acceptable terms, oneok partners future growth will be limited, which could adversely impact its results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 57-61 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk policy and oversight - we control the scope of risk management, marketing and trading operations through a comprehensive set of policies and procedures involving senior levels of management. the audit committee of our board of directors has oversight responsibilities for our risk management limits and policies. our risk oversight committee, comprised of corporate and business segment officers, oversees all activities related to commodity price and credit risk management, and marketing and trading activities. the committee also monitors risk metrics including value-at-risk (var) and mark-to-market losses. we have a corporate risk control organization led by our vice president of audit, business development and risk control, who is assigned responsibility for establishing and enforcing the policies and procedures and monitoring certain risk metrics. key risk control activities include credit review and approval, credit and performance risk measurement and monitoring, validation of transactions, portfolio valuation, var and other risk metrics. commodity price risk our exposure to market risk discussed below includes forward-looking statements and represents an estimate of possible changes in future earnings that would occur assuming hypothetical future movements in interest rates or commodity prices. our views on market risk are not necessarily indicative of actual results that may occur and do not represent the maximum possible gains and losses that may occur since actual gains and losses will differ from those estimated based on actual fluctuations in interest rates or commodity prices and the timing of transactions. we are exposed to market risk and the impact of market price fluctuations of natural gas, ngls, and crude oil prices. market risk refers to the risk of loss in cash flows and future earnings arising from adverse changes in commodity energy prices. to minimize the risk from market price fluctuations of natural gas, ngls and crude oil, we use commodity derivative instruments such as futures contracts, swaps and options to manage market risk of existing or anticipated purchase and sale agreements, existing physical natural gas in storage, and basis risk. we adhere to policies and procedures that limit our exposure to market risk from open positions and that monitor our market risk exposure. 57 table of contents oneok partners oneok partners is exposed to commodity price risk as its interstate and intrastate pipelines collect natural gas from its customers for operations or as part of their fee for services provided. when the amount of natural gas utilized in operations by these pipelines differs from the amount provided by their customers, the pipelines must buy or sell natural gas, or use natural gas from inventory, and are exposed to commodity price risk. at december 31, 2006, there were no hedges in place with respect to natural gas price risk from its interstate and intrastate pipeline operations. also, oneok partners is exposed to commodity price risk primarily as a result of ngls in storage, spread risk associated with the relative values of the various components of the ngl stream and the relative value of ngl purchases at one location and sales at another location, known as basis risk. oneok partners has not entered into any hedges with respect to its ngl marketing activities. lastly, oneok partners is exposed to commodity price risk primarily as a result of revenue realized from the sale of commodities received in exchange for its gathering and processing services. oneok partners primary exposure arises from the relative price differential between natural gas and ngls with respect to its keep-whole processing contracts and the sale of natural gas, ngls and condensate with respect to its pop contracts. to a lesser extent, oneok partners is exposed to the risk of price fluctuations and the cost of intervening transportation at various market locations. oneok partners uses commodity derivative contracts and fixed-price physical contracts, including nymex-based futures, collars and over-the-counter swaps, which are all designated as cash flow hedges, to minimize earnings volatility related to natural gas, ngl and condensate price fluctuations. the following table sets forth oneok partners hedging information for 2007. year ending december 31, 2007 product volumes hedged average price per unit percent percent of proceeds natural gas liquids (bbl/d) (a) 2,320 $ 40.23 33 % keep-whole gross processing spread (mmbtu/d) (a) 6,410 $ 3.06 31 % (a) hedged with fixed-price swaps oneok partners commodity price market risk is estimated as a hypothetical change in the price of natural gas, ngls and crude oil at december 31, 2006. oneok partners condensate sales are based on the price of crude oil. oneok partners estimates that a $1.00 per barrel increase in the price of crude oil would increase annual net margin by approximately $0.4 million, excluding the effects of hedging. oneok partners estimates that a $0.01 per gallon increase in the composite price of ngls would increase annual net margin by approximately $2.1 million, excluding the effects of hedging. oneok partners estimates that a $0.10 per mmbtu increase in the price of natural gas would decrease annual net margin by approximately $0.1 million, excluding the effects of hedging. the above estimates of commodity price risk do not include any effects on demand for its services that might be caused by, or arise in conjunction with, price changes. for example, increased commodity prices may reduce demand for oneok partners storage and transportation services or may be caused by factors, such as weather, that increase demand for such services. distribution kansas gas service and certain jurisdictions of texas gas service use derivative instruments to hedge the cost of anticipated natural gas purchases during the winter heating months to protect their customers from upward volatility in the market price of natural gas. at december 31, 2006, kansas gas service had derivative instruments in place to hedge the cost of natural gas purchases for 2.0 bcf, which represents part of their gas purchase requirements for the 2006/2007 winter heating months. gains or losses associated with the kansas gas service hedges are included in and recoverable through the monthly pga. at december 31, 2006, texas gas service had derivative instruments in place to hedge the cost of natural gas purchases for 0.6 bcf, which represents part of their gas purchase requirements for the 2006/2007 winter heating months. energy services our energy services segment is exposed to commodity price risk, including basis risk, arising from natural gas in storage and index-based purchases and sales of natural gas at various market locations. we minimize the volatility of our exposure to commodity price risk through the use of derivative instruments, which, under certain circumstances, are designated as cash flow or fair value hedges. we are also exposed to commodity price risk from fixed price purchases and sales of natural gas, 58 table of contents which we hedge with derivative instruments. both the fixed price purchases and sales and related derivatives are recorded at fair value. fair value component of the energy marketing and risk management assets and liabilities - the following table sets forth the fair value component of the energy marketing and risk management assets and liabilities, excluding derivative instruments that have been declared as either fair value or cash flow hedges. fair value component of energy marketing and risk management assets and liabilities (thousands of dollars) net fair value of derivatives outstanding at december 31, 2005 $ 30,336 derivatives realized or otherwise settled during the period (48,428 ) fair value of new derivatives when entered into during the period (9,164 ) other changes in fair value 14,123 net fair value of derivatives outstanding at december 31, 2006 $ (13,133 ) the net fair value of derivatives outstanding includes the effect of settled energy contracts and current period changes resulting primarily from newly originated transactions and the impact of market movements on the fair value of energy marketing and risk management assets and liabilities. fair value estimates consider the market in which the transactions are executed. the market in which exchange traded and over-the-counter transactions are executed is a factor in determining fair value. we utilize third-party references for pricing points from nymex and third-party over-the-counter brokers to establish the commodity pricing and volatility curves. we believe the reported transactions from these sources are the most reflective of current market prices. fair values are subject to change based on valuation factors. the estimate of fair value includes an adjustment for the liquidation of the position in an orderly manner over a reasonable period of time under current market conditions. the fair value estimate also considers the risk of nonperformance based on credit considerations of the counterparty. maturity of energy trading contracts - the following table provides a detail of our energy services segment maturity of derivatives based on injection and withdrawal periods from april through march. this maturity schedule is consistent with our business strategy. executory storage and transportation contracts and their related hedges are not included in the following table. fair value of derivatives at december 31, 2006 source of fair value (a) matures through march 2007 matures through march 2010 matures through march 2012 total fair value (thousands of dollars) prices actively quoted (b) $ (181,175 ) $ (18,629 ) $ - $ (199,804 ) prices provided by other external sources (c) 172,859 26,155 (219 ) 198,795 prices derived from quotes, other external sources and other assumptions (d) (19,975 ) 7,888 (37 ) (12,124 ) total $ (28,291 ) $ 15,414 $ (256 ) $ (13,133 ) (a) fair value is the mark-to-market component of forwards, futures, swaps and options, net of applicable reserves. these fair values are reflected as a component of assets and liabilities from energy marketing and risk management activities in our consolidated balance sheets. (b) values are derived from the energy market price quotes from national commodity trading exchanges that primarily trade futures and option commodity contracts. (c) values are obtained through energy commodity brokers or electronic trading platforms, whose primary service is to match willing buyers and sellers of energy commodities. energy price information by location is readily available because of the large energy broker network. (d) values derived in this category utilize market price information from the other two categories, as well as other assumptions for liquidity and credit. 59 table of contents for further discussion of trading activities and assumptions used in our trading activities, see the critical accounting policies and estimates section of item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation in this annual report on form 10-k. also, see note d of notes to consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k. value-at-risk (var) disclosure of market risk - we measure market risk in the energy marketing and risk management, trading and non-trading portfolios of our energy services segment using a var methodology, which estimates the expected maximum loss of the portfolio over a specified time horizon within a given confidence interval. our var calculations are based on the monte carlo approach. the quantification of market risk using var provides a consistent measure of risk across diverse energy markets and products with different risk factors in order to set overall risk tolerance, to determine risk targets and set position limits. the use of this methodology requires a number of key assumptions, including the selection of a confidence level and the holding period to liquidation. inputs to the calculation include prices, volatilities, positions, instrument valuations and the variance-covariance matrix. historical data is used to estimate our var with more weight given to recent data, which is considered a more relevant predictor of immediate future commodity market movements. we rely on var to determine the potential reduction in the portfolio values arising from changes in market conditions over a defined period. while management believes that the referenced assumptions and approximations are reasonable, no uniform industry methodology exists for estimating var. different assumptions and approximations could produce materially different var estimates. our var exposure represents an estimate of potential losses that would be recognized for our non-regulated businesses energy marketing and risk management, non-trading and trading portfolios of derivative financial instruments, physical contracts and natural gas in storage due to adverse market movements. a one-day time horizon and a 95 percent confidence level were used in our var data. actual future gains and losses will differ from those estimated by the var calculation based on actual fluctuations in commodity prices, operating exposures and timing thereof, and the changes in our derivative financial instruments, physical contracts and natural gas in storage. var information should be evaluated in light of these assumptions and the methodology other limitations. the potential impact on our future earnings, as measured by the var, was $14.9 million and $29.5 million at december 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. the following table details the average, high and low var calculations for the periods indicated. years ended december 31, 2006 2005 (millions of dollars) average $ 18.5 $ 19.0 high $ 65.0 $ 54.1 low $ 3.5 $ 7.5 our var calculation includes derivatives, executory storage and transportation agreements and their related hedges. the variations in the var data are reflective of market volatility and changes in the portfolios during the year. the increase in var for 2006, compared with 2005, was due to higher average commodity prices beginning in the latter part of the third quarter 2005 and was prevalent into the second quarter 2006. in particular, there was significant price volatility in the latter part of the third quarter of 2005 due to weather-related events. to the extent open commodity positions exist, fluctuating commodity prices can impact our financial results and financial position either favorably or unfavorably. as a result, we cannot predict with precision the impact risk management decisions may have on the business, operating results or financial position. interest rate risk general - we are subject to the risk of interest rate fluctuation in the normal course of business. we manage interest rate risk through the use of fixed-rate debt, floating-rate debt and, at times, interest rate swaps. fixed-rate swaps are used to reduce our risk of increased interest costs during periods of rising interest rates. floating-rate swaps are used to convert the fixed rates of long-term borrowings into short-term variable rates. at december 31, 2006, the interest rate on 82.9 percent of our long-term debt, exclusive of the debt of our oneok partners segment, was fixed after considering the impact of interest rate swaps, while the interest rate on 92.6 percent of oneok partners long-term debt was fixed after considering the impact of interest rate swaps. 60 table of contents at december 31, 2006, a 100 basis point move in the annual interest rate on all of our outstanding long-term debt would change our annual interest expense by $5.0 million before taxes. this 100 basis point change assumes a parallel shift in the yield curve. if interest rates changed significantly, we would take actions to manage our exposure to the change. since a specific action and the possible effects are uncertain, no change has been assumed. fair value hedges - in prior years, we and oneok partners terminated various interest rate swap agreements. the net savings from the termination of these swaps is being recognized in interest expense over the terms of the debt instruments originally hedged. net interest expense savings for 2006 for all terminated swaps was $10.1 million, and the remaining net savings for all terminated swaps will be recognized over the following periods: oneok oneok partners total (millions of dollars) 2007 $ 6.6 $ 3.4 $ 10.0 2008 6.6 3.6 10.2 2009 5.6 3.8 9.4 2010 5.5 4.0 9.5 2011 2.5 0.8 3.3 thereafter 12.8 - 12.8 currently, $490 million of fixed rate debt is swapped to floating. the floating rate debt is based on both the three- and six-month libor, depending upon the swap. based on the actual performance through december 31, 2006, the weighted average interest rate on the $490 million of debt increased from 6.64 percent to 7.18 percent. at december 31, 2006, we recorded a net liability of $13.5 million to recognize the interest rate swaps at fair value. long-term debt was decreased by $13.5 million to recognize the change in the fair value of the related hedged liability. see note i of notes to consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k. total savings for both terminated and active swaps for 2006 were $7.6 million, compared with the savings of $10.7 million in 2005. total swap savings for 2007 is expected to be $8.1 million. prior to the issuance of the $800 million of notes in the second quarter of 2005, we entered into $500 million in treasury rate-lock agreements to hedge the changes in cash flows of our anticipated interest payments from changes in treasury rates prior to the issuance of the notes. upon the issuance of the notes in june 2005, we paid $2.4 million related to the termination of the treasury rate-lock agreements. this amount, net of tax, has been recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and will be recognized in the income statement over the term of the related debt issuances. currency rate risk with our energy services segment expansion into canada, we are subject to currency exposure related to our firm transportation and storage contracts. our objective with respect to currency risk is to reduce the exposure due to exchange-rate fluctuations. we use physical forward transactions, which result in an actual two-way flow of currency on the settlement date since we exchange u.s. dollars for canadian dollars with another party. we have not designated these transactions for hedge accounting treatment; therefore, the gains and losses associated with the change in fair value are recorded in net margin. at december 31, 2006 and 2005, our exposure to risk from currency translation was not material and there was no material currency translation gain or loss recorded. 61 table of contentsrisk factors 15-23 risk factors our investors should consider the following risks that could affect us and our business. although we have tried to discuss key factors, our investors need to be aware that other risks may prove to be important in the future. new risks may emerge at any time, and we cannot predict such risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect our financial performance. investors should carefully consider the following discussion of risks and the other information included or incorporated by reference in this annual report on form 10-k, including forward-looking statements, which are included in item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation. risk factors inherent in our business our cash flow depends heavily on the earnings and distributions of oneok partners. our partnership interest in oneok partners is one of our largest cash-generating assets. therefore, our cash flow is heavily dependent upon the ability of oneok partners to make distributions to its partners. a significant decline in oneok partners earnings and/or cash distributions would have a corresponding negative impact on us. for information on the risk factors inherent in the business of oneok partners, see the section below entitled risk factors related to oneok partners business and the oneok partners 2007 annual report on form 10-k. some of our nonregulated businesses have a higher level of risk than our regulated businesses. some of our nonregulated operations, which include oneok partners gathering and processing, natural gas liquids gathering and fractionation, and our marketing and trading businesses, have a higher level of risk than our regulated operations, which include our utility and oneok partners natural gas and natural gas liquids transportation businesses. we expect to continue investing in natural gas and natural gas liquids projects and other related projects, some or all of which may involve nonregulated businesses or assets. these projects could involve risks associated with operational factors, such as competition and dependence on certain suppliers and customers, and financial, economic and political factors, such as rapid and significant changes in commodity prices, the cost and availability of capital and counterparty risk, including the inability of a counterparty, customer or supplier to fulfill a contractual obligation. our ldcs have recorded certain assets that may not be recoverable from their customers. accounting policies for our ldcs permit certain assets that result from the regulatory process to be recorded on our balance sheet that could not be recorded under gaap for nonregulated entities. we consider factors such as rate orders from regulators, previous rate orders for substantially similar costs, written approval from the regulator and analysis of recoverability from internal and external legal counsel to determine the probability of future recovery of these assets. if we determine future recovery is no longer probable, we would be required to write off the regulatory assets at that time. our businesses are subject to market and credit risks. we are exposed to market and credit risks in all of our operations. to minimize the risk of commodity price fluctuations, we periodically enter into derivative transactions to hedge anticipated purchases and sales of natural gas, ngls, crude oil, fuel requirements and firm transportation commitments. interest-rate swaps are also used to manage interest rate risk. currency swaps are used to mitigate unexpected changes that may occur in anticipated revenue streams of our canadian natural gas sales and purchases driven by currency rate fluctuations. however, financial derivative instrument contracts do not eliminate the risks. specifically, such risks include commodity price changes, market supply shortages, interest rate changes and counterparty default. the impact of these variables could result in our inability to fulfill contractual obligations, significantly higher energy or fuel costs relative to corresponding sales contracts, or increased interest expense. we are subject to the risk of loss resulting from nonpayment and/or nonperformance by customers of our energy services segment. the customers of our energy services segment are predominantly ldcs, industrial customers, natural gas producers and marketers that may experience deterioration of their financial condition as a result of changing market conditions or financial difficulties that could impact their credit worthiness or ability to pay for our services. although we attempt to obtain adequate security for these risks, if we fail to adequately assess the credit worthiness of existing or future customers, unanticipated deterioration in their credit worthiness and any resulting nonpayment and/or nonperformance could adversely impact results of operations for our energy services segment. in addition, if any of our energy services segment customers filed for bankruptcy protection, we may not be able to recover amounts owed, which would negatively impact the results of operations for our energy services segment. 15 table of contents increased competition could have a significant adverse financial impact on us. the natural gas and natural gas liquids industries are expected to remain highly competitive, resulting from deregulation and other initiatives being pursued by the industry and regulatory agencies that allow customers increased options for energy supplies and service. the demand for natural gas and ngls is primarily a function of commodity prices, including prices for alternative energy sources, customer usage rates, weather, economic conditions and service costs. our ability to compete also depends on a number of other factors, including competition from other pipelines for our existing load, the efficiency, quality and reliability of the services we provide, and competition for throughput for our gathering systems and plants. we cannot predict when we will be subject to changes in legislation or regulation, nor can we predict the impact of these changes on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. although we believe our businesses are positioned to compete effectively in the energy market, there are no assurances that this will be true in the future. we may not be able to successfully make additional strategic acquisitions or integrate businesses we acquire into our operations. our ability to successfully make strategic acquisitions and investments will depend on: (i) the extent to which acquisitions and investment opportunities become available; (ii) our success in bidding for the opportunities that do become available; (iii) regulatory approval, if required, of the acquisitions on favorable terms; and (iv) our access to capital, including our ability to use our equity in acquisitions or investments, and the terms upon which we obtain capital. if we are unable to make strategic investments and acquisitions, we may be unable to grow. if we are unable to successfully integrate new businesses into our operations, we could experience increased costs and losses on our investments. any reduction in our credit ratings could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. our long-term senior unsecured debt has been assigned an investment grade rating by s&amp;p of bbb (stable) and moody of baa2 (stable). we will seek to maintain an investment grade rating through prudent capital management and financing structures. however, we cannot provide assurance that any of our current ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances in the future so warrant. specifically, if s&amp;p or moody were to downgrade our long-term rating, particularly below investment grade, our borrowing costs would increase, which would adversely affect our financial results, and our potential pool of investors and funding sources could decrease. further, if our short-term ratings were to fall below a-2 (capacity to meet its financial commitment on the obligation is satisfactory) or p-2 (strong ability to repay short-term debt obligations), the current ratings assigned by s&amp;p and moody s, respectively, it could significantly limit our access to the commercial paper market. any such downgrade of our long- or short-term ratings could increase our cost of capital and reduce the availability of capital and, thus, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. ratings from credit agencies are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our securities. each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. a downgrade in our credit ratings below investment grade would negatively affect the operations of our energy services segment. if our credit ratings fall below investment grade, ratings triggers and/or adequate assurance clauses in many of our financial and wholesale physical contracts would be in effect. a ratings trigger or adequate assurance clause gives a counterparty the right to suspend or terminate the agreement unless margin thresholds are met. the additional increase in capital required to support our energy services segment would negatively impact our ability to compete, as well as our ability to actively manage the risk associated with existing storage and transportation contracts. we are subject to comprehensive energy regulation by governmental agencies and the recovery of our costs is dependent on regulatory action. we are subject to comprehensive regulation by several federal, state and municipal utility regulatory agencies, which significantly influences our operating environment and our ability to recover our costs from utility customers. the utility regulatory authorities in oklahoma, kansas and texas regulate many aspects of our utility operations, including customer service and the rates that we can charge customers. federal, state and local agencies also have jurisdiction over many of our other activities, including regulation by the ferc of our storage and interstate pipeline assets. the profitability of our regulated operations is dependent on our ability to pass costs related to providing energy and other commodities through to our customers. the regulatory environment applicable to our regulated businesses could impair our ability to recover costs historically absorbed by our customers. 16 table of contents we are unable to predict the impact that the future regulatory activities of these agencies will have on our operating results. changes in regulations or the imposition of additional regulations could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our business is subject to increased regulatory oversight and potential penalties. the natural gas industry historically has been heavily regulated; therefore, there is no assurance that a more stringent regulatory approach will not be pursued by the ferc and u.s. congress, especially in light of previous market power abuse by certain companies engaged in interstate commerce. in response to this issue, u.s. congress, in the energy policy act of 2005 (epact), developed requirements intended to ensure that the energy market is not impacted by the exercise of market power or manipulative conduct. the ferc then adopted the market manipulation rules to implement the authority granted under epact. these rules are intended to prohibit fraud and manipulation and are subject to broad interpretation. epact also gave the ferc increased penalty authority for violations. we are subject to environmental regulations that could be difficult and costly to comply with. we are subject to multiple environmental laws and regulations affecting many aspects of present and future operations, including air emissions, water quality, wastewater discharges, solid wastes and hazardous material and substance management. these laws and regulations generally require us to obtain and comply with a wide variety of environmental registrations, licenses, permits, inspections and other approvals. failure to comply with these laws, regulations, permits and licenses may expose us to fines, penalties and/or interruptions in our operations that could be material to the results of operations. if an accidental leak or spill of hazardous materials occurs from our lines or facilities, in the process of transporting natural gas or ngls, or at any facility that we own, operate or otherwise use, we could be held jointly and severally liable for all resulting liabilities, including investigation and clean-up costs, which could materially affect our results of operations and cash flows. in addition, emission controls required under the federal clean air act and other similar federal and state laws could require unexpected capital expenditures at our facilities. we cannot assure that existing environmental regulations will not be revised or that new regulations will not be adopted or become applicable to us. revised or additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, particularly if those costs are not fully recoverable from customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. for further discussion on this topic, see note k of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this annual report on form 10-k. we are subject to risks that could limit our access to capital, thereby increasing our costs and adversely affecting our results of operations. we have grown rapidly in the last several years as a result of acquisitions. further acquisitions may require additional external capital. if we are not able to access capital at competitive rates, our strategy of enhancing the earnings potential of our existing assets, including through acquisitions of complementary assets or businesses, will be adversely affected. a number of factors could adversely affect our ability to access capital, including: (i) general economic conditions; (ii) capital market conditions; (iii) market prices for natural gas, ngls and other hydrocarbons; (iv) the overall health of the energy and related industries; (v) our ability to maintain our investment-grade credit ratings; and (vi) our capital structure. much of our business is capital intensive, and achievement of our long-term growth targets is dependent, at least in part, upon our ability to access capital at rates and on terms we determine to be attractive. if our ability to access capital becomes significantly constrained, our interest costs will likely increase and our financial condition and future results of operations could be significantly harmed. our business could be adversely affected by strikes or work stoppages by our unionized employees. as of january 31, 2008, 748 of our 4,555 employees were represented by labor unions under collective bargaining agreements. we are involved periodically in discussions with labor unions representing some of our employees to negotiate or renegotiate labor agreements. we cannot predict the results of these negotiations, including whether any failure to reach new agreements will have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations or whether we will be able to reach any agreement with the unions. any failure to reach agreement on new labor contracts might result in a work stoppage. any future work stoppage could, depending on the operations and the length of the work stoppage, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 17 table of contents we do not fully hedge against price changes in commodities. this could result in decreased revenues and increased costs, thereby resulting in lower margins and adversely affecting our results of operations. certain of our nonregulated businesses are exposed to market risk and the impact of market price fluctuations of natural gas, ngls and crude oil. market risk refers to the risk of loss of cash flows and future earnings arising from adverse changes in commodity energy prices. our primary exposure arises from fixed-price physical purchase or sale agreements that extend for periods of up to five years, natural gas in storage utilized by our energy services segment, commodity prices with respect to oneok partners processing contracts and the difference between natural gas and ngls, as well as the individual ngl products, prices with respect to natural gas and ngl transportation, fractionation and exchange agreements and natural gas and ngls in storage utilized in our operations. oneok partners and our energy services segment are also exposed to the risk of changing prices or the cost of transportation resulting from purchasing natural gas or ngls at one location and selling it at another (referred to as basis risk). to minimize the risk from market price fluctuations of natural gas, ngls and crude oil, we use commodity derivative instruments such as futures contracts, swaps and options to manage market risk of existing or anticipated purchases and sales of natural gas, ngls and crude oil. we adhere to policies and procedures that limit our exposure to market risk from open positions and that monitor our market risk exposure. however, we do not fully hedge against commodity price changes, and therefore, we retain some exposure to market risk. accordingly, any adverse changes to commodity prices could result in decreased revenue and increased costs. our distribution segment uses storage to minimize the volatility of natural gas costs for our customers by storing natural gas in periods of low demand for consumption in peak demand periods. in addition, various natural gas supply contracts allow us the option to convert index-based purchases to fixed prices. also, we use derivative instruments to hedge the cost of anticipated natural gas purchases during the winter heating months to protect customers from upward volatility in the market price of natural gas. oklahoma natural gas was recently authorized by the occ to implement a natural gas hedge program as a three-year pilot program, with up to $10 million per year in hedge costs to be recovered from customers. texas gas service also has a natural gas hedging program for certain of its jurisdictions. although we control oneok partners, we may have conflicts of interest with oneok partners which could subject us to claims that we have breached our fiduciary duty to oneok partners and its unitholders. we own 100 percent of the general partner interest and a 43.7 percent limited partner interest in oneok partners. conflicts of interest may arise between us and oneok partners and its unitholders. in resolving these conflicts, we may favor our own interests and the interests of our affiliates over the interests of oneok partners and its unitholders as long as the resolution does not conflict with the oneok partners partnership agreement or our fiduciary duties to oneok partners and its unitholders. risk factors related to oneok partners business the volatility of natural gas, crude oil and ngl prices could adversely affect oneok partners cash flow. a significant portion of oneok partners revenues are derived from the sale of commodities received as payment for its natural gas gathering and processing services, for transportation and storage of natural gas and ngls, and for the fractionation of ngls. as a result, oneok partners is sensitive to commodity price fluctuations. commodity prices have been and are likely to continue to be volatile in the future. high commodity prices and large commodity price spreads may not continue and could drop precipitously in a short period of time. the prices of commodities are subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors beyond oneok partners control, including the following: relatively minor changes in the supply of, and demand for, domestic and foreign energy, market uncertainty, the availability and cost of transportation capacity, the level of consumer product demand, geopolitical conditions impacting supply and demand for natural gas and crude oil, weather conditions, domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes, the price and availability of alternative fuels, speculation in the commodity futures markets, overall domestic and global economic conditions, the price of natural gas, crude oil, ngl and liquefied natural gas imports, and the effect of worldwide energy conservation measures. 18 table of contents these external factors and the volatile nature of the energy markets make it difficult to reliably estimate future prices of commodities and the impact commodity price fluctuations have on our customers and their need for our services. as commodity prices decline, oneok partners is paid less for its commodities, thereby reducing its cash flow. in addition, production and related volumes could also decline. oneok partners does not fully hedge against price changes in commodities. this could result in decreased revenues, increased costs and lower margins, thereby adversely affecting the results of oneok partners operations. the oneok partners businesses are exposed to market risk and the impact of market fluctuations in natural gas, ngls, and crude oil prices. market risk refers to the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in commodity energy prices. oneok partners primary exposure arises from commodity prices with respect to processing agreements, the difference between ngl and natural gas prices with respect to our natural gas and ngl transportation, fractionation and exchange agreements, and the differential between the individual ngl products and ngls in storage utilized by its natural gas liquids operations. to manage the risk from market fluctuations in natural gas, ngl and condensate prices, oneok partners uses commodity derivative instruments such as futures contracts, swaps and options. however, it does not fully hedge against commodity price changes, and it therefore retains some exposure to market risk. accordingly, any adverse changes to commodity prices could result in decreased revenue and increased costs for oneok partners. oneok partners use of financial instruments to hedge market risk may result in reduced income. oneok partners utilizes financial instruments to mitigate its exposure to interest rate and commodity price fluctuations. hedging instruments that are used to reduce its exposure to interest rate fluctuations could expose it to risk of financial loss where it has contracted for variable-rate swap instruments to hedge fixed-rate instruments and the variable rate exceeds the fixed rate. in addition, these hedging arrangements may limit the benefit oneok partners would otherwise receive if it has contracted for fixed-rate swap agreements to hedge variable-rate instruments and the variable rate falls below the fixed rate. hedging arrangements that are used to reduce oneok partners exposure to commodity price fluctuations may limit the benefit oneok partners would otherwise receive if market prices for natural gas and ngls exceed the stated price in the hedge instrument for these commodities. growing oneok partners business by constructing new pipelines and new processing and treating facilities or making modifications to its existing facilities subjects oneok partners to construction risks and risks that adequate natural gas or ngl supplies will not be available upon completion of the facilities. one of the ways oneok partners intends to grow its business is through the construction of new pipelines and new gathering, processing, storage and fractionation facilities and through modifications to oneok partners existing pipelines and existing gathering, processing, storage and fractionation facilities. the construction and modification of pipelines and gathering, processing, storage and fractionation facilities requires the expenditure of significant amounts of capital, which may exceed oneok partners estimates, and involves numerous regulatory, environmental, political and legal uncertainties. construction projects in oneok partners industry may increase demand on labor and material which may in turn impact oneok partners costs and schedule. if oneok partners undertakes these projects, it may not be able to complete them on schedule or at the budgeted cost. additionally, oneok partners revenues may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project. for instance, if oneok partners builds a new pipeline, the construction will occur over an extended period of time, and oneok partners will not receive any material increases in revenues until after completion of the project. oneok partners may have only limited natural gas or ngl supplies committed to these facilities prior to their construction. additionally, oneok partners may construct facilities to capture anticipated future growth in production in a region in which anticipated production growth does not materialize. oneok partners may also rely on estimates of proved reserves in oneok partners decision to construct new pipelines and facilities, which may prove to be inaccurate because there are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves. as a result, new facilities may not be able to attract enough natural gas or ngls to achieve oneok partners expected investment return, which could adversely affect oneok partners results of operations and financial condition. oneok partners inability to execute growth and development projects and acquire new assets could reduce cash distributions to its unitholders. oneok partners primary business objectives are to generate cash flow sufficient to pay quarterly cash distributions to unitholders and to increase quarterly cash distributions over time. oneok partners ability to maintain and grow its distributions to unitholders depends on the growth of its existing businesses and strategic acquisitions. accordingly, if oneok partners is unable to implement business development opportunities and finance such activities on economically acceptable terms, its future growth will be limited, which could adversely impact the results of operations. 19 table of contents oneok partners operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions, which could adversely affect its business and for which oneok partners may not be adequately insured. oneok partners operations are subject to all of the risks and hazards typically associated with the operation of natural gas and natural gas liquids gathering and transportation pipelines, storage facilities and processing and fractionation plants. operating risks include, but are not limited to, leaks, pipeline ruptures, the breakdown or failure of equipment or processes, and the performance of pipeline facilities below expected levels of capacity and efficiency. other operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions include adverse weather conditions, accidents, the collision of equipment with oneok partners pipeline facilities (for example, this may occur if a third party were to perform excavation or construction work near oneok partners facilities), and catastrophic events such as explosions, fires, earthquakes, floods or other similar events beyond oneok partners control. it is also possible that oneok partners infrastructure facilities could be direct targets or indirect casualties of an act of terrorism. a casualty occurrence might result in injury or loss of life, extensive property damage or environmental damage. liabilities incurred, and interruptions to the operation of oneok partners pipeline caused by such an event, could reduce revenues generated by oneok partners and increase expenses, thereby impairing oneok partners ability to meet its obligations. insurance proceeds may not be adequate to cover all liabilities or expenses incurred or revenues lost. if the level of drilling and production in the mid-continent, rocky mountain and gulf coast regions substantially declines, oneok partners volumes and revenue could decline. oneok partners ability to maintain or expand its businesses depends largely on the level of drilling and production in the mid-continent, rocky mountain and gulf coast regions. drilling and production are impacted by factors beyond oneok partners control, including: demand for natural gas and refinery-grade crude oil; producers desire and ability to obtain necessary permits in a timely and economic manner, natural gas field characteristics and production performance; surface access and infrastructure issues; and capacity constraints on natural gas, crude oil and natural gas liquids pipelines from the producing areas and oneok partners facilities. in addition, drilling and production are impacted by environmental regulations governing water discharge. if the level of drilling and production in any of these regions substantially declines, oneok partners volumes and revenue could be reduced. if production from the western canada sedimentary basin remains flat or declines and demand for natural gas from the western canada sedimentary basin is greater in market areas other than the midwestern united states, demand for oneok partners interstate gas transportation services could significantly decrease. oneok partners depends on natural gas supply from the western canada sedimentary basin because oneok partners interstate pipelines primarily transport canadian natural gas from the western canada sedimentary basin to the midwestern u.s. market area. if demand for natural gas increases in canada or other markets not served by oneok partners interstate pipelines and production remains flat or declines, demand for transportation service on oneok partners interstate natural gas pipelines could decrease significantly, which could adversely impact oneok partners results of operations. pipeline integrity programs and repairs may impose significant costs and liabilities. in december 2003, the united states department of transportation issued a final rule requiring pipeline operators to develop integrity management programs for intrastate and interstate natural gas and natural gas liquids pipelines located near high consequence areas, where a leak or rupture could do the most harm. the final rule requires operators to perform ongoing assessments of pipeline integrity; identify and characterize applicable threats to pipeline segments that could impact a high consequence area; improve data collection, integration and analysis; repair and remediate the pipeline as necessary; and implement preventive and mitigating actions. the final rule incorporates the requirements of the pipeline safety improvement act of 2002 and became effective in january 2004. the results of these testing programs could cause oneok partners to incur significant capital and operating expenditures to make repairs or take remediation, preventive or mitigating actions that are determined to be necessary. 20 table of contents oneok partners regulated natural gas pipelines transportation rates are subject to review and possible adjustment by federal and state regulators. oneok partners regulated natural gas pipelines are subject to extensive regulation by the ferc and state regulatory agencies, which regulate most aspects of oneok partners pipeline business, including oneok partners transportation rates. under the natural gas act, interstate transportation rates must be just and reasonable and not unduly discriminatory. under northern border pipeline 2006 rate case settlement, there is a three-year moratorium preventing northern border pipeline from filing rate cases and the participants from challenging northern border pipeline rates, and a requirement that northern border pipeline file a rate case within six years. oneok partners regulated pipeline companies have recorded certain assets that may not be recoverable from its customers. accounting policies for ferc-regulated companies permit certain assets that result from the regulated ratemaking process to be recorded on the oneok partners balance sheet that could not be recorded under gaap for nonregulated entities. oneok partners considers factors such as regulatory changes and the impact of competition to determine the probability of future recovery of these assets. if oneok partners determines future recovery is no longer probable, oneok partners would be required to write off the regulatory assets at that time. oneok partners operations are subject to federal and state laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, which may expose it to significant costs and liabilities. the risk of incurring substantial environmental costs and liabilities is inherent in oneok partners business. oneok partners operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into, or otherwise relating to the protection of, the environment. examples of these laws include: the federal clean air act and analogous state laws that impose obligations related to air emissions; the federal clean water act and analogous state laws that regulate discharge of wastewaters from oneok partners facilities to state and federal waters; the federal comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act and analogous state laws that regulate the cleanup of hazardous substances that may have been released at properties currently or previously owned or operated by oneok partners or locations to which oneok partners has sent waste for disposal; and the federal resource conservation and recovery act and analogous state laws that impose requirements for the handling and discharge of solid and hazardous waste from oneok partners facilities. various governmental authorities, including the united states epa, have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them. violators are subject to administrative, civil and criminal penalties, including civil fines, injunctions or both. joint and several, strict liability may be incurred without regard to fault under the comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act, resource conservation and recovery act and analogous state laws for the remediation of contaminated areas. there is an inherent risk of incurring environmental costs and liabilities in oneok partners business due to its handling of the products it gathers, transports and processes, air emissions related to its operations, historical industry operations and waste disposal practices, some of which may be material. private parties, including the owners of properties through which oneok partners pipeline systems pass, may have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as to seek damages for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage arising from oneok partners operations. some sites oneok partners operates are located near current or former third-party hydrocarbon storage and processing operations, and there is a risk that contamination has migrated from those sites to oneok partners sites. in addition, increasingly strict laws, regulations and enforcement policies could significantly increase oneok partners compliance costs and the cost of any remediation that may become necessary, some of which may be material. additional information is included under item 1, business under environmental and safety matters and in note k of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this annual report on form 10-k. oneok partners insurance may not cover all environmental risks and costs or may not provide sufficient coverage in the event an environmental claim is made against oneok partners. oneok partners business may be adversely affected by increased costs due to stricter pollution control requirements or liabilities resulting from non-compliance with required operating or other regulatory permits. new environmental regulations might also adversely affect oneok partners products and activities, and federal and state agencies could impose additional safety requirements, all of which could materially affect oneok partners profitability. 21 table of contents in the competition for customers, oneok partners may have significant levels of uncontracted or discounted transportation capacity on its natural gas and natural gas liquids pipelines. oneok partners natural gas and natural gas liquids pipeline businesses compete with other pipelines for natural gas and natural gas liquids supplies delivered to the markets it serves. as a result of competition, oneok partners may have significant levels of uncontracted or discounted capacity on its pipelines, which could adversely impact oneok partners results of operations. oneok partners is exposed to the credit risk of its customers, and its credit risk management may not be adequate to protect against such risk. oneok partners is subject to the risk of loss resulting from nonpayment and/or nonperformance by oneok partners customers. oneok partners customers are predominantly producers, ngl end users and marketers that may experience deterioration of their financial condition as a result of changing market conditions or financial difficulties that could impact their credit worthiness or ability to pay oneok partners for its services. oneok partners assesses the credit worthiness of its customers and obtains security as it deems appropriate. if oneok partners fails to adequately assess the credit worthiness of existing or future customers, unanticipated deterioration in their credit worthiness and any resulting nonpayment and/or nonperformance could adversely impact oneok partners results of operations. in addition, if any of oneok partners customers file for bankruptcy protection, oneok partners results of operations may be negatively impacted. any reduction in the oneok partners credit ratings could materially and adversely affect its business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. oneok partners senior unsecured long-term debt has been assigned an investment grade rating by moody of baa2 (stable) and by s&amp;p of bbb (stable). oneok partners will seek to maintain an investment grade rating through prudent capital management and financing structures. however, oneok partners cannot provide assurance that any of its current ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances in the future so warrant. specifically, if moody or s&amp;p were to downgrade oneok partners long-term debt rating, particularly below investment grade, its borrowing costs would increase, which would adversely affect its financial results, and its potential pool of investors and funding sources could decrease. ratings from credit agencies are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold oneok partners securities. each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. a downgrade of oneok partners credit rating may require oneok partners to offer to repurchase certain of its senior notes or may impair its ability to access capital. oneok partners could be required to offer to repurchase certain of its senior notes due 2010 and 2011 at par value, plus any accrued and unpaid interest, if moody or s&amp;p rates those senior notes below investment grade (baa3 for moody and bbb- for s&amp;p). further, the indenture governing oneok partners senior notes due 2010 and 2011 includes an event of default upon acceleration of other indebtedness of $25 million or more and the indenture governing oneok partners senior notes due 2012, 2016, 2036 and 2037 includes an event of default upon the acceleration of other indebtedness of $100 million or more that would be triggered by such an offer to repurchase. such an event of default would entitle the trustee or the holders of 25 percent in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding senior notes due 2010, 2011, 2012, 2016, 2036 and 2037 to declare those notes immediately due and payable in full. oneok partners may not have sufficient cash on hand to repurchase and repay any accelerated senior notes, which may cause oneok partners to borrow money under its credit facilities or seek alternative financing sources to finance the repayments and repurchases. oneok partners could also face difficulties accessing capital or its borrowing costs could increase, impacting its ability to obtain financing for acquisitions or capital expenditures, to refinance indebtedness and to fulfill its debt obligations. oneok partners has adopted certain valuation methodologies that may result in a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between the general partner and the unitholders. the irs may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of its limited partner units. when oneok partners issues additional units or engages in certain other transactions, oneok partners determines the fair market value of its assets and allocates any unrealized gain or loss attributable to its assets to the capital accounts of its unitholders and its general partner. oneok partners methodology may be viewed as understating the value of its assets. in that case, there may be a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between certain unitholders and the general partner, which may be unfavorable to such unitholders. moreover, under oneok partners current valuation methods, subsequent purchasers of common units may have a greater portion of their internal revenue code section 743(b) adjustment allocated 22 table of contents to oneok partners tangible assets and a lesser portion allocated to oneok partners intangible assets. the irs may challenge oneok partners valuation methods, or oneok partners allocation of the section 743(b) adjustment attributable to oneok partners tangible and intangible assets, and allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction between the general partner and certain of oneok partners unitholders. a successful irs challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to oneok partners unitholders. it also could affect the amount of gain from oneok partners unitholders sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to oneok partners unitholders tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions. oneok partners treatment of a purchaser of common units as having the same tax benefits as the seller could be challenged, resulting in a reduction in value of the common units. because oneok partners cannot match transferors and transferees of common units, oneok partners is required to maintain the uniformity of the economic and tax characteristics of these units in the hands of the purchasers and sellers of these units. oneok partners does so by adopting certain depreciation conventions that do not conform to all aspects of the united states treasury regulations. an irs challenge to these conventions could adversely affect the tax benefits to a unitholder of ownership of the common units and could have a negative impact on their value or result in audit adjustments to oneok partners unitholders tax returns. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 55-58 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk policy and oversight - we control the scope of risk management, marketing and trading operations through a comprehensive set of policies and procedures involving senior levels of management. the audit committee of our board of directors has oversight responsibilities for our risk management limits and policies. our risk oversight committee, comprised of corporate and business segment officers, oversees all activities related to commodity price and credit risk management, and marketing and trading activities. the committee also monitors risk metrics including value-at-risk (var) and mark-to-market losses. we have a corporate risk control organization led by our vice president of audit, business development and risk control, who is assigned responsibility for establishing and enforcing the policies and procedures and monitoring certain risk metrics. key risk control activities include credit review and approval, credit and performance risk measurement and monitoring, validation of transactions, portfolio valuation, var and other risk metrics. commodity price risk our exposure to market risk discussed below includes forward-looking statements and represents an estimate of possible changes in future earnings that would occur assuming hypothetical future movements in interest rates or commodity prices. our views on market risk are not necessarily indicative of actual results that may occur and do not represent the maximum possible gains and losses that may occur since actual gains and losses will differ from those estimated based on actual fluctuations in interest rates or commodity prices and the timing of transactions. we are exposed to market risk and the impact of market price fluctuations of natural gas, ngls and crude oil prices. market risk refers to the risk of loss in cash flows and future earnings arising from adverse changes in commodity energy prices. to minimize the risk from market price fluctuations of natural gas, ngls and crude oil, we use commodity derivative instruments such as futures contracts, swaps and options to manage market risk of existing or anticipated purchase and sale agreements, existing physical natural gas in storage, and basis risk. we adhere to policies and procedures that limit our exposure to market risk from open positions and that monitor our market risk exposure. oneok partners oneok partners is exposed to commodity price risk as its natural gas interstate and intrastate pipelines collect natural gas from its customers for operations or as part of their fee for services provided. when the amount of natural gas consumed in operations by these pipelines differs from the amount provided by its customers, the pipelines must buy or sell natural gas, store or use natural gas from inventory, and are exposed to commodity price risk. at december 31, 2007, there were no hedges in place with respect to natural gas price risk from oneok partners natural gas pipeline business. in addition, oneok partners is exposed to commodity price risk primarily as a result of ngls in storage, spread risk associated with the relative values of the various components of the ngl stream and the relative value of ngl purchases at one location and sales at another location, known as basis risk. oneok partners has not entered into any hedges with respect to its ngl marketing activities. oneok partners is also exposed to commodity price risk, primarily ngls, as a result of receiving commodities in exchange for its gathering and processing services. to a lesser extent, oneok partners is exposed to the relative price differential between ngls and natural gas, or the gross processing spread, with respect to its keep-whole processing contracts and the risk of price fluctuations and the cost of intervening transportation at various market locations. oneok partners uses commodity fixed-price physical forwards and derivative contracts, including nymex-based futures and over-the-counter swaps, to minimize earnings volatility in its natural gas gathering and processing business related to natural gas, ngl and condensate price fluctuations. oneok partners reduces its gross processing spread exposure through a combination of physical and financial hedges. oneok partners utilizes a portion of its pop equity natural gas as an offset, or natural hedge, to an equivalent portion of its keep-whole shrink requirements. this has the effect of converting oneok partners gross processing spread risk to ngl commodity price risk and oneok partners then uses financial instruments to hedge the sale of ngls. 55 table of contents the following table sets forth oneok partners hedging information for the year ending december 31, 2008. year ending december 31, 2008 volumes hedged average price per unit volumes hedged natural gas liquids (bbl/d) (a) 8,085 $ 1.28 ($/gallon ) 70 % condensate (bbl/d) (a) 818 $ 2.15 ($/gallon ) 74 % total liquid sales (bbl/d) 8,903 $ 1.36 ($/gallon ) 71 % (a) - hedged with fixed-price swaps. oneok partners commodity price risk is estimated as a hypothetical change in the price of ngls, crude oil and natural gas at december 31, 2007, excluding the effects of hedging and assuming normal operating conditions. oneok partners condensate sales are based on the price of crude oil. oneok partners estimates the following: a $0.01 per gallon increase in the composite price of ngls would increase annual net margin by approximately $1.7 million, a $1.00 per barrel increase in the price of crude oil would increase annual net margin by approximately $0.5 million, and a $0.10 per mmbtu increase in the price of natural gas would increase annual net margin by approximately $0.3 million. the above estimates of commodity price risk do not include any effects on demand for its services that might be caused by, or arise in conjunction with, price changes. for example, a change in the gross processing spread may cause ethane to be sold in the natural gas stream, impacting gathering and processing margins, ngl exchange margins, natural gas deliveries and ngl volumes shipped. distribution our distribution segment uses derivative instruments to hedge the cost of anticipated natural gas purchases during the winter heating months to protect their customers from upward volatility in the market price of natural gas. gains or losses associated with these derivative instruments are included in, and recoverable through, the monthly purchased gas cost mechanism. energy services our energy services segment is exposed to commodity price risk, including basis risk, arising from natural gas in storage and index-based purchases and sales of natural gas at various market locations. we minimize the volatility of our exposure to commodity price risk through the use of derivative instruments, which, under certain circumstances, are designated as cash flow or fair value hedges. we are also exposed to commodity price risk from fixed price purchases and sales of natural gas, which we hedge with derivative instruments. both the fixed price purchases and sales and related derivatives are recorded at fair value. fair value component of the energy marketing and risk management assets and liabilities - the following table sets forth the fair value component of the energy marketing and risk management assets and liabilities, excluding $3.5 million, net of derivative instruments that have been declared as either fair value or cash flow hedges, and $15.7 million, net of deferred option premiums. fair value component of energy marketing and risk management assets and liabilities (thousands of dollars) net fair value of derivatives outstanding at december 31, 2006 $ (13,133 ) derivatives realized or otherwise settled during the period 27,251 fair value of new derivatives entered into during the period 8,287 other changes in fair value 2,766 net fair value of derivatives outstanding at december 31, 2007 $ 25,171 the net fair value of derivatives outstanding includes the effect of settled energy contracts and current period changes resulting primarily from newly originated transactions and the impact of market movements on the fair value of energy marketing and risk management assets and liabilities. fair value estimates consider the market in which the transactions are executed. the market in which exchange traded and over-the-counter transactions are executed is a factor in determining fair 56 table of contents value. we utilize third-party references for pricing points from nymex and third-party over-the-counter brokers to establish the commodity pricing and volatility curves. we believe the reported transactions from these sources are the most reflective of current market prices. fair values are subject to change based on valuation factors. the estimate of fair value includes an adjustment for the liquidation of the position in an orderly manner over a reasonable period of time under current market conditions. the fair value estimate also considers the risk of nonperformance based on credit considerations of the counterparty. maturity of derivatives - the following table provides details of our energy services segment maturity of derivatives based on injection and withdrawal periods from april through march. this maturity schedule is consistent with our business strategy. derivative instruments that have been declared as either fair value or cash flow hedges are not included in the following table. fair value of derivatives at december 31, 2007 source of fair value (a) matures through march 2008 matures through march 2011 matures through march 2013 total fair value (thousands of dollars) prices actively quoted (b) $ (2,602 ) $ (40 ) $ - $ (2,642 ) prices provided by other external sources (c) (15,693 ) (11,337 ) (110 ) (27,140 ) prices derived from quotes, other external sources and other assumptions (d) 37,132 17,858 (37 ) 54,953 total $ 18,837 $ 6,481 $ (147 ) $ 25,171 (a) fair value is the mark-to-market component of forwards, futures, swaps and options, net of applicable reserves. these fair values are reflected as a component of assets and liabilities from energy marketing and risk management activities in our consolidated balance sheets. (b) values are derived from the energy market price quotes from national commodity trading exchanges that primarily trade futures and option commodity contracts. (c) values are obtained through energy commodity brokers or electronic trading platforms, whose primary service is to match willing buyers and sellers of energy commodities. energy price information by location is readily available because of the large energy broker network. (d) values derived in this category utilize market price information from the other two categories, as well as other assumptions for liquidity and credit. for further discussion of trading activities and assumptions used in our trading activities, see the critical accounting policies and estimates section of item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation in this annual report on form 10-k. also, see note d of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this annual report on form 10-k. value-at-risk (var) disclosure of market risk - we measure market risk in the energy marketing and risk management, trading and non-trading portfolios of our energy services segment using a var methodology, which estimates the expected maximum loss of the portfolio over a specified time horizon within a given confidence interval. our var calculations are based on the monte carlo approach. the quantification of market risk using var provides a consistent measure of risk across diverse energy markets and products with different risk factors in order to set overall risk tolerance, to determine risk targets and set position limits. the use of this methodology requires a number of key assumptions, including the selection of a confidence level and the holding period to liquidation. inputs to the calculation include prices, volatilities, positions, instrument valuations and the variance-covariance matrix. historical data is used to estimate our var with more weight given to recent data, which is considered a more relevant predictor of immediate future commodity market movements. we rely on var to determine the potential reduction in the portfolio values arising from changes in market conditions over a defined period. while management believes that the referenced assumptions and approximations are reasonable, no uniform industry methodology exists for estimating var. different assumptions and approximations could produce materially different var estimates. our var exposure represents an estimate of potential losses that would be recognized for our non-regulated businesses energy marketing and risk management, non-trading and trading portfolios of derivative financial instruments, physical contracts and natural gas in storage due to adverse market movements. a one-day time horizon and a 95 percent confidence level were used in our var data. actual future gains and losses will differ from those estimated by the var calculation 57 table of contents based on actual fluctuations in commodity prices, operating exposures and timing thereof, and the changes in our derivative financial instruments, physical contracts and natural gas in storage. var information should be evaluated in light of these assumptions and the methodology other limitations. the potential impact on our future earnings, as measured by the var, was $6.0 million and $12.5 million at december 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. the following table details the average, high and low var calculations for the periods indicated. years ended december 31, 2007 2006 (millions of dollars) average $ 8.9 $ 18.5 high $ 23.0 $ 65.0 low $ 3.4 $ 3.6 our var calculation includes derivatives, executory storage and transportation agreements and their related hedges. the variations in the var data are reflective of market volatility and changes in the portfolios during the year. the decrease in var for 2007, compared with 2006, was due to lower commodity prices and decreased price volatility in 2007, particularly in the first quarter of 2007. to the extent open commodity positions exist, fluctuating commodity prices can impact our financial results and financial position either favorably or unfavorably. as a result, we cannot predict with precision the impact risk management decisions may have on the business, operating results or financial position. interest rate risk general - we are subject to the risk of interest-rate fluctuation in the normal course of business. we manage interest-rate risk through the use of fixed-rate debt, floating-rate debt and, at times, interest-rate swaps. fixed-rate swaps are used to reduce our risk of increased interest costs during periods of rising interest rates. floating-rate swaps are used to convert the fixed rates of long-term borrowings into short-term variable rates. at december 31, 2007, the interest rate on 82.9 percent of our long-term debt, exclusive of the debt of our oneok partners segment, was fixed after considering the impact of interest-rate swaps. oneok partners terminated two floating-rate swaps in 2007. the total value oneok partners received for the terminated swaps was not material. at december 31, 2007, the interest rate on all of oneok partners long-term debt was fixed. at december 31, 2007, a 100 basis point move in the annual interest rate on all of our outstanding long-term debt would change our annual interest expense by $3.4 million before taxes. this 100 basis point change assumes a parallel shift in the yield curve. if interest rates changed significantly, we would take actions to manage our exposure to the change. since a specific action and the possible effects are uncertain, no change has been assumed. fair value hedges - see note d of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this annual report on form 10-k for discussion of the impact of interest-rate swaps and net interest expense savings from terminated swaps. total net swap savings for 2007 were $8.2 million, compared with $7.6 million for 2006. total swap savings for 2008 is expected to be $14.3 million. currency rate risk as a result of our energy services segment expansion into canada, we are subject to currency exposure from our commodity purchases and sales related to our firm transportation and storage contracts. our objective with respect to currency risk is to reduce the exposure due to exchange-rate fluctuations. we use physical forward transactions, which result in an actual two-way flow of currency on the settlement date since we exchange u.s. dollars for canadian dollars with another party. we have not designated these transactions for hedge accounting treatment; therefore, the gains and losses associated with the change in fair value are recorded in net margin. at december 31, 2007 and 2006, our exposure to risk from currency translation was not material. we recognized currency translation gains of $4.1 million and $2.5 million during 2007 and 2006, respectively. at december 31, 2005, there was no material currency translation gain or loss recorded. 58 table of contents